INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TELECOM PLUS PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The financial statements, which are prepared by Telecom Plus PLC, comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.75m which is based on 7.5% of profit before tax normalised through adjusting for transactions not principally relating to trading operations and averaging over the current and previous two accounting periods.
In normalising profit before tax we added back the annual share incentive scheme charges which are impacted by movements in the Groups share price and the amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets.
We consider this measure to be the most significant determinant of the Groups financial performance and therefore an appropriate basis for materiality as it is one of the key performance indicators used by management.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all audit differences individually in excess of 50,000.
We also agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The audit work undertaken in relation to the significant components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each entity and ranged from 1.5m to 1.65m.
Overview of the scope of our audit A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the FRCs website at www.
In establishing our group audit approach we gained an understanding of the Group and the regulatory environment in which it operates and we subsequently focused on the three principal trading companies which account for 85% of the Groups profit before tax.
Additional audit procedures were performed on financial information from those components not considered to be significant to provide us with reasonable assurance that material error does not exist within those components.
74 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We have discussed our assessment of the risks of material misstatement with the Audit Committee who have set out on pages 44 to 47 of their report consideration of these risks.
AREA OF RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE RISK ACCURACY OF THE BILLING SYSTEM The billing system is central to the Groups business and The documentation and testing of the Groups IT system, is responsible for generating several key balances which processes and controls is a core part of our audit scope are reported in the Group financial statements.
and addresses the potential risks arising from the billing system with enhanced procedures being performed in We focused on this area as it is possible that any relation to revenues and commissions payable.
systematic errors in the billing system could result in processing errors causing material misstatement across We assessed and tested the key controls that surround the multiple balances within the financial statements.
billing system as well as the integrity of the data being generated through the inclusion of Information System specialists on the audit team and through the application of Computer Assisted Audit Techniques CAATs.
VALUATION AND RECOVERABILITY OF TRADE RECEIVABLES The reported trade receivables balance is largely We evaluated the ageing analysis and composition of represented by customers who have debt assigned to trade receivables and challenged the appropriateness their prepayment meter or have defaulted on a payment.
of managements key assumptions used in the provision As a result, recoverability of uncollected debt requires calculations.
management to make significant judgements regarding Our work involved reviewing assumptions applied in expected future receipts from customers.
the context of the Groups historical experience and performing sensitivity analysis on the critical assumptions to determine the extent of change in those assumptions that would be required for the provision to change materially.
REVENUE RECOGNITION AND THE VALUATION AND RECOVERABILITY OF UNBILLED ENERGY SUPPLIED Estimation is required in relation to revenue as a material We considered the rationale for recognising revenue element of unbilled energy supplied is measured by based on energy supplied but not yet billed, and multiplying usage by an average rate per KwH.
evaluated the processes and procedures surrounding customer meter reading.
Moreover, whilst the Group makes every effort to measure customers energy usage through accurate meter Specifically, we considered evidence that supports the reading and estimation, income is accrued in relation to propensity of customers to under-report energy usage, energy supplied which is yet to be allocated to individual and usage levels which have not been independently customer accounts.
A degree of estimation is required in verified.
Our work also involved reviewing the rationale and In addition management have made certain valuation assumptions applied in identifying irrecoverable usage provisions against the receivable which requires and the estimates and significant judgements adopted estimation judgement.
in determining recoverable amounts, identifying and challenging those assumptions that have the greatest impact on the receivable.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TELECOM PLUS PLC CONTINUED AREA OF RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE RISK ACCOUNTING TREATMENT OF NEW ENERGY SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS As disclosed in notes 6 and 21 to the financial We reviewed the sale and purchase and wholesale statements, during the year the Group acquired two supply and services agreements and have challenged entities in order to enter into a wholesale supply and managements assessment that the acquired entities did not services agreement with Npower.
The directors do not meet the definition of businesses under IFRS 3. consider that these acquisitions represented business We considered the factors outlined in note 21 and, in combinations under IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS particular, the relationship between the company, Npower 3 and accordingly have treated the transaction as the and the acquired entities both before and after the purchase of assets under the framework set out in IAS 38 transaction date.
In determining the appropriate accounting treatment and disclosures required in the financial statements it was necessary for the directors to exercise judgement in applying IFRS to the circumstances of the transaction.
RISK OF MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS The financial statements include a number of balances We examined the significant accounting estimates including current receivables which require the directors and judgements relevant to the financial statements for to make estimates and exercise judgement in determining evidence of bias by the directors.
In particular, we tested key reconciliations, unbilled revenue, provisions surrounding delinquent customers, intangible asset amortisation and fair values.
We also tested manual journal entries.
OPINION ON MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the strategic report and directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 36 to 42 of the annual report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
76 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 71 that the group is a going concern.
Our duty to read other information in the annual report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between the knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have not identified any such inconsistencies, apparent misstatements or misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, on page 72, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Julian Frost senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor London, UK 20 May 2014 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 77
