Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC Report on the Group financial statements Overview of our audit approach Our opinion Materiality In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually at 22 February 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows and on the financial statements as a whole.
for the 52 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 150 million.
European Union: and This represents approximately 5% of profit before tax adjusted have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of for restructuring and one-off items.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the them misstatements identified during our audit above 7 million remainder of this report.
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Tesco Overview of the scope of our audit PLC, comprise: The Group is primarily structured as three geographic regions, being UK, Asia and Europe, and Tesco Bank.
The Group financial the Group balance sheet as at 22 February 2014: statements are a consolidation of nineteen reporting units, the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised income for the 52 weeks then ended: functions, within these regions.
the Group statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the 52 weeks then ended: and In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, the notes to the Group financial statements, which include we determined the type of work that needed to be performed a summary of significant accounting policies and other at reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, explanatory information.
or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where work The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their was performed by component auditors, we determined the preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at the European Union.
those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, rather than in the Accordingly, we identified three reporting units which, in our notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced view, required an audit of their complete financial information, from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These three reporting units accounted for 92% of the Groups profit before What an audit of financial statements involves tax adjusted for restructuring and one-off items, of which the We conducted our audit in accordance with International main UK trading business contributed 73%.
Audits of their Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
complete financial information were also performed for a An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and further eight overseas reporting units where there are local disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give statutory reporting requirements and specific audit procedures reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free on certain balances and transactions were performed at a from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Our audit work at these reporting This includes an assessment of: units, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 65 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Areas of particular audit focus to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect or a combination of both.
of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently We considered the following areas to be those that required uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on in the financial statements.
those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 33.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition of commercial income Commercial income promotional monies, discounts and rebates We tested the controls management has in place, focusing on receivable from suppliers recognised during the year is material controls over price changes and margin reviews.
to the income statement and amounts accrued at the year end are judgemental.
We agreed commercial income recognised to contractual evidence with suppliers, with particular attention to the period in which the We focused on this area because of the judgement required in income was recorded and the appropriateness of the accrual at the accounting for the commercial income deals and the risk of year end.
We compared movements year on year in margins for product categories based on an expectation derived from our sample testing of contracts with suppliers.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment We focused on this area because the determination of whether We evaluated the Directors impairment calculations in local or not an impairment charge for property, plant and equipment is territories, assessing the future cash flow forecasts used in the necessary involves significant judgements by the Directors about models, and the process by which they were drawn up, including the future results of the business and assessment of future plans comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets, and testing for the Groups property portfolio in a number of territories.
We challenged: the key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical results, and economic and industry forecasts: the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and comparable organisations: and the alternative use value for land not expected to be developed.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of growth rates of the cash flow forecasts, including revenue growth and expected changes in margins.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
66 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of assets held for sale We focused on this area due to the significant and complex We assessed and challenged the valuation techniques and judgements required over determining the fair value of the assumptions in the third party valuation report commissioned Groups operations in China, which are disclosed in the financial by management.
This included assessing and challenging: statements within assets held for sale.
the independence, scope of work and findings of managements third party valuation expert: and the cashflow forecasts and key assumptions over growth and discount rates.
We also assessed the valuation against available entity specific and similar transaction market data.
Provisions and reserves in Tesco Bank We assessed the overall control environment at Tesco Bank We focused on this area because of the significant judgement and performed a combination of internal controls testing and required by the Directors in determining the level of provision for substantive testing.
We tested the year end product reconciliations, the following areas: the impairment provisions recognised and the level of Loan, credit card and mortgage impairments suspended interest.
Provisions of customer redress Insurance reserving We have assessed and challenged the assumptions made by management in calculating the provisions for redress.
We have reviewed historical data to assess whether trends in customer claims have been accurately reflected in the provisions.
We evaluated the work performed by independent actuaries and challenged the key assumptions the Directors have made for insurance reserving by using our market knowledge of the UK Motor and Household insurance products to perform corroborative analytics.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistleblow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested manual journal entries and incorporated an element of unpredictability in the timing of our work into our testing plans.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue We tested controls over the recording of revenue in the relevant recognition because of the pressure management may feel IT systems and performed substantive testing of revenue recorded to achieve the planned results.
Therefore we focused on the during the year.
We tested that retail sales transactions are supported occurrence of transactions and whether they were recorded in by cash receipts and also tested journal entries posted to revenue the period in which the Group became entitled to record revenue.
accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 67 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Going Concern Other information in the Annual Report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern.
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: We have nothing to report having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have Group financial statements: or concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate the course of performing our audit: or resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend is otherwise misleading.
it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and However, because not all future events or conditions can be the audit predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Our responsibilities and those of the directors Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64, the directors are responsible Opinion on other matter prescribed by the for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for Companies Act 2006 being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs financial statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Adequacy of information and explanations received only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Other matter if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to statements of Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014. report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate Governance Statement Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part for and on behalf of  LLP of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing London to report having performed our review.
2 May 2014 On page 64 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 34, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
68 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
