Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 115 Independent auditors report to the members of Thomas Cook Group plc What we have audited Report on the financial statements Thomas Cook Group plcs financial statements comprise: Our opinion the Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 September 2014: In our opinion: the Group income statement and statement of other Thomas Cook Group plcs Group financial statements and Company comprehensive income for the year then ended: 1 financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair the Group and Company cash flow statements for the year view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at then ended: 30 September 2014 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: year then ended: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the the Company financial statements have been properly prepared Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in the financial statements and are identified as audited.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions ofthe Companies Act 2006.
2 Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 15.0m which is based on 5% of the last five years average underlying profit from operations, being profit from operations adjusted for the impact of separately disclosed items.
Materiality Full scope audits performed on 32 of 106 units from across the four geographic operating divisions.
Our audit scope provided 77% coverage of the Groups underlying profit from operations.
Audit scope Carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax assets.
Aircraft leases and associated maintenance provisions.
Areas of Recoverability of hotel prepayments.
focus Treasury operations and use of derivative instruments.
3 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
