SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ST A TEMENT OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS AUDITORS REPORT TO RESPONSIBILITIES THE MEMBERS OF FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Report and the financial statements in accordance with integrity of the corporate and financial information applicable law and regulations.
included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the Opinion on Financial Statements of Separate Opinion in United Kingdom governing the preparation and Company law requires the Directors to prepare such Travis Perkins plc Relation to IFRSs as Issued by the IASB dissemination of financial statements may differ from financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion the financial statements: As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the Directors are required to prepare the group financial in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply statements in accordance with International Financial Directors Responsibility Statement give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the group has Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and of the Groups and the Parent companys profit for the Standards Board IASB.
chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements year then ended: T he financial statements, prepared in accordance with under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under In our opinion the group financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted company law the Directors must not approve the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss adopted by the European Union: and Going Concern the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial whole: and statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires have been prepared in accordance with the requirements As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the that directors: of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group directors statement contained within the Corporate T he Strategic Report, which is incorporated into financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Governance Statement, that the Group is a going concern.
the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the Pr operly select and apply accounting policies: We confirm that: development and performance of the business and the The financial statements comprise the Group and Parent Pr esent information, including accounting policies, in a position of the Company and the undertakings included Company Income Statements, the Group and Parent we have concluded that the directors use of the going manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the understandable information: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent financial statements is appropriate: and they face.
Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Pr ovide additional disclosures when compliance with the Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related we have not identified any material uncertainties that may specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable Declaration notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as users to understand the impact of particular transactions, been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs a going concern.
other events and conditions on the entitys financial The Directors consider that the Annual Report and as adopted by the European Union.
position and financial performance: and Accounts, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and However, because not all future events or conditions can understandable and provide the information necessary for be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Make an assessment of the compan ys ability to continue shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate By order of the Board accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable John Carter Tony Buffin accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 2 March 2015 comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
124 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 125 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Assessment of Risks of Material Mistatement Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessed risks of material misstatement described overleaf are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, Inventory valuation and provisioning We tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls in 2014, including those the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: In relation to the valuation of inventory 743m, relating to management oversight and completion of inventory counts.
2013: 688m, there is complexity in determining We tested the existence of inventory through observation of 44 inventory counts average weighted cost, reflecting the size and across all of the Groups divisions on a sample basis and assessed the condition of Risk How the Scope of our Audit Responded to the Risk scale of the business and the various processing the stock.
We tested and challenged the calculations supporting the determination of systems involved.
In addition, judgement must weighted average cost across each division and assessed the appropriateness of the The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill Our work focussed on challenging Managements assumptions including specifically be applied by management in determining methodology applied.
We also tested the adjustments for overhead allocations and and intangible assets the determination of cash-generating units, the forecast cash flow projections for adjustments and provisions for supplier rebates supplier rebates to assess whether they were appropriate.
We considered actual and The Groups assessment of goodwill and each cash-generating unit and the discount rates.
on purchases, overhead allocations and other forecast sales of key inventory lines to check that the allowances for slow-moving intangible assets 2,224m, 2013: 2,224m In making this critical assessment of the cash flow projections we assessed historical allowances to recognise inventories at the lower obsolete stock were valid and sufficient.
incorporates judgments based on assumptions forecasting accuracy and compared forecast profit margins to historical margins and of cost and net realisable value.
We tested that the inventory values do not exceed their net realisable values, by of future cash flows, including assumptions benchmarked the discount rate and growth rates employed to available market data.
Management has included this risk in the key selecting a sample of lines and comparing the actual sales value to the value held around revenue growth, margins, the selection of We challenged the appropriateness of inclusion of cash flows relating to new accounting estimates and judgements on in inventory.
appropriate discount rates and the assessment initiatives against the guidance in IAS 36, which precludes the inclusion of cash flows page 143. of the Groups cash-generating units particularly from restructuring activity to which an entity is not yet committed.
With respect to with respect to the Wickes 864m and PTS, we assessed whether the group was committed to building the best programme Plumbing Trading Supplies PTS 175m and that the inclusion of associated revenues, costs and cash flows was appropriate.
Income taxes We challenged Managements determination of the Groups accounting for income cash generating units within the Consumer and With respect to Wickes we considered the ongoing initiatives against this guidance, The Group is required to consider the extent taxes, using our taxation specialists to assess the judgements made, including the Plumbing & Heating Divisions respectively.
including range reviews and store refits.
to which the impact of uncertain tax positions level of provision maintained for uncertain tax positions, in light of evidence that Management has included this risk in the key We critically assessed managements position as to whether or not a reasonably should be recognised within the current and included correspondence with the relevant tax authorities.
accounting estimates and judgements on possible change to key operating assumptions could result in an impairment in either deferred taxation charge for the year and related page 143. of these CGUs.
In doing so we considered the sensitivity of the asset valuations current and deferred taxation assets and liabilities to adverse outturn versus the forecasts, in particular adverse changes in the long in the financial statements.
term growth rate assumed and like for like sales.
We also specifically challenged Management has included this risk in the key and considered the appropriateness of the disclosures set out in note 13 and note accounting estimates and judgements on 14 to the accounts detailing the point at which the carrying value of goodwill and page 143. intangibles would equal their recoverable amounts.
We assessed the continuing appropriateness of testing groups of CGUs for impairment at the brand level.
Last year our audit report included one other risk which is 0.3m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
not included in our report this year.
In 2013 we highlighted Accounting for supplier rebates We tested the operating effectiveness of the controls in the supplier rebate cycle We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters a risk around provisions for liabilities, principally comprising Supplier rebates are a key part of the Groups in both 2013 and 2014 including management oversight, reviewed and challenged that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the self-insurance and onerous property leases.
As set out on page 143 the actual versus forecast rebate receipts throughout the year.
exited one property which accounted for 21% of the total majority of rebates are determined with reference A key focus of our work was on the controls around new agreements entered into in provision in the previous year and the remaining provision is to guaranteed rates and only one rebate the year are appropriately captured by managements reporting systems.
An Overview of the Scope of our Audit no longer material to the Group financial statements.
agreement is not coterminus with the Groups We reviewed agreements to understand the commercial basis for arrangements Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the year end.
entered into and assessed the consistency of the accounting applied.
The description of risks above should be read in These arrangements can however be complex We circularised a sample of suppliers to confirm rebate terms and balances, verified Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and conjunction with the significant issues considered by the assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
The and therefore management judgement is post year-end cash receipts to assess recoverability and validity of the amount Audit Committee discussed on page 95. necessary in relation to recognition of the recognised as receivable at year end.
senior statutory auditor was involved in all decisions including the risk assessment and approach to group-wide controls testing.
Based associated rebate including the allocation of We tested and challenged Managements calculations to estimate the impact of Our Application of Materiality rebate credits between profit and loss and rebates agreements on purchases of items held in stock at year end.
on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the Groups four principal divisions.
These principal divisions are the inventory at each balance sheet date.
We reviewed and challenged the appropriateness of managements accounting Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in Management has included this risk in the key policy on page 139 and other associated disclosures on page 143 in light of recent Groups four operating segments and represent 95% of the Groups the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and net assets, 99% of the Groups revenue and 99% of the Groups accounting estimates and judgements on FRC communications.
not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
In addition, we applied data audit techniques to profile the supplier income profit before tax.
The statutory audits were executed at levels of Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were much received in order to identify anomalies.
Such anomalies were investigated to assess respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express whether they were indicative of mis-application of contractual terms or other lower than Group materiality.
an opinion on these individual matters.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process calculation errors.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion financial statements that makes it probable that the economic that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be aggregated financial information of the remaining components not changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 17m 2013: 22m, which is below 5% of Group profit before tax.
We have changed the percentage applied to align more closely with other comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3m 2013: 126 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 127 SECTION HEAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by Respective Responsibilities of Directors the Companies Act 2006 and Auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 2006: and and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Report for the financial year for which the financial statements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 Matters on Which we are Required to UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure Report by Exception that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and Adequacy of Explanations Received and Accounting Records applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as if, in our opinion: a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies We have not received all the information and explanations we Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might require for our audit: or state to the companys members those matters we are required Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or received from branches not visited by us: or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the The parent company financial statements are not in agreement companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, with the accounting records and returns.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors Remuneration Scope of the Audit of the Financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to Statements report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the assurance that the financial statements are free from material accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an from these matters.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been Corporate Governance Statement consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Our Duty to Read Other Information in the Annual Report based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the report is: implications for our report.
Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Colin Hudson FCA Senior statutory auditor Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the and Statutory Auditor, London, United Kingdom course of performing our audit: or 2 March 2015 Otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Scott Lloyd and Marc Thompson Travis Perkins, Warrington 128 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 129
