STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 179 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Independent Auditors report to the members of TUI Travel PLC Report on the Parent company financial statements Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Our opinion our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by In our opinion, TUI Travel PLCs Company financial statements law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this the financial statements : responsibility.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2014: Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Companies Act 2006. statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What we have audited Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial TUI Travel PLCs financial statements comprise: statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2014: and Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any the financial statements and are identified as audited.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the prior consent in writing.
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted What an audit of financial statements involves Accounting Practice.
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Other required reporting in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether consistency of other information caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Companies Act 2006 opinions whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial disclosed: statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by ISAs UK & Ireland reporting the Directors: and Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs the overall presentation of the financial statements.
UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, statements: or and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable performing our audit: or basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through is otherwise misleading.
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Adequacy of accounting records and information and the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited explanations received financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the in our opinion: knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or for our audit: or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Other matter branches not visited by us: or We have reported separately on the Group financial statements the financial statements and the part of the Directors of TUI Travel PLC for the year ended 30 September 2014.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Roger fide Peyrecave Senior Statutory Auditor Directors remuneration for and on behalf of  LLP Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be London audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 3 December 2014 Act 2006.
