104 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors report to the members of TUI Travel PLC Report on the Group financial statements What we have audited TUI Travel PLCs financial statements comprise: Our opinion the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement In our opinion, TUI Travel PLCs Group financial statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended 30 September 2014: the financial statements : the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2014: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: 30 September 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then then ended: ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with International the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 27.5 million which represents 4.5% of underlying operating profit.
Materiality We conducted audit work at 50 businesses in 15 countries.
The Group engagement team visited the following locations UK, Germany, France, Nordics, Belgium, Netherlands, Russia, Canada and Spain.
Our audit scope addressed 87% of Group revenues and 83% of absolute Group underlying operating profit i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard Audit scope to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant reporting units.
Impairment assessment Goodwill and other intangible assets, and Russia.
Areas of Provisions and other areas of balance sheet judgement.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
the scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as Areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Our observations on the areas below were based on the evidence obtained to support our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 105 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Area of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus effectiveness of internal control We assessed the overall control environment of the Group including Refer to page 75 The effectiveness of Internal Control and the risk meeting with senior management and the Groups legal, compliance and management framework within the Audit Committee Report.
We evaluated the progress of the Groups project that is designed to The overall control environment in the Group has improved over the last strengthen the tone at the top including assessing the quality of internal few years, with a change in approach from the Group management team audit and strengthening of risk management process and procedures and and a greater focus on ensuring that controls in place are more robust to formalise certain controls, policies and processes to improve the and financial reporting more accurate.
robustness of the control environment throughout the businesses operated The financial controls, processes and procedures across the Group are by the Group.
at varying stages of maturity and there are a large number of different financial systems in operation.
Management is continuing to implement The Group is complex and we noted that although this project is becoming the COSO framework across the Finance functions within the Group, embedded within the larger businesses where the output is more with the aim of ensuring controls within the larger businesses are fully formalised, within the smaller businesses the controls are less formal.
documented, owned by individuals within those businesses and evidence As a result, our audit approach incorporated: of the operation of the control is retained.
The smaller businesses within a greater focus on those reporting units and functions with weaker controls: the Group are required to operate a centrally defined list of minimum a greater emphasis on substantive testing of transactions, balances and controls, providing additional assurance over the control environment.
key reconciliations: and We focused on this area because financial information at locations a greater emphasis on testing of manual journals.
where the control environment is less mature is inherently more at risk After discussion with the Audit Committee we also included a greater of misstatement.
These locations tend to be, but are not exclusively, number of smaller businesses in scope for an audit of their complete the smaller businesses operated by the Group.
No material misstatements were noted from these additional areas of focus and emphasis.
impairment assessment Goodwill and other intangible assets We evaluated and challenged the Groups future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were drawn up, and tested the underlying and Russia value in use calculations.
We compared the Groups forecast to the latest Refer to page 74 Annual goodwill impairment review and SDI within Board approved three year plans and found them to be consistent.
the Audit Committee Report, page 121 Significant Accounting Policies and page 144 notes.
In certain Specialist & Activity businesses, the key assumptions we focused on were the speed at which sales growth would be achieved, and whether Goodwill and other intangible assets cost savings could return some businesses to their former profitability.
The Goodwill and intangible asset balances of 4.3bn are supported by Factors we considered included new market opportunities and the cost an annual impairment review.
Overall, we found the growth plans No impairment charge has been recorded by management against these were achievable but that there was sufficient uncertainty to require balances in the current financial year.
The risk that we focused on in the management to disclose the sensitivities of key assumptions and these audit is that the goodwill and intangibles balance may be overstated and are included in note 10. that an impairment charge may be required.
For the France mainstream business, we focused on the assumptions about Of the 4.3bn, 3.2bn relates to businesses that have grown significantly the impact of the political unrest on sales in North Africa, managements since acquisition and for which there is substantial headroom.
The risk ability to retain sales growth by offering alternative destinations and the that we focused on in the audit is that the remaining balance of 1.1bn impact of the downsizing restructuring of recent years.
Based on the booking may be overstated.
pattern of TUI Frances customers this year and analysis of the size of the Certain assumptions made by management in the impairment review are French market for overseas travel we concurred with managements position.
In particular: For the Online Accommodation business we focused on understanding and The goodwill and intangibles balances in the Specialist & Activity challenging management plans for future growth.
We noted that these plans businesses amount to 715m.
Certain of these businesses have been are driven by cost savings from shared IT platforms and back office functions trading below budget and will require turnaround actions to achieve for the key businesses in this cash generating unit CGU and considered the anticipated growth rate in the next five years in the business plans.
these were achievable and within managements control.
We applied If these growth rates are not achieved the goodwill and intangible asset sensitivities to the assumptions on speed and extent of market penetration, values could be impaired: particularly in AsiaRooms and MalaPronta, this analysis showed that The French mainstream business, with 162m of goodwill and intangibles, although different assumptions could have been made, those chosen by has been loss making and is highly dependent on the North African the Directors sat within an acceptable range.
destinations, where there is continuing political unrest, and the success We also challenged: of the cost reduction plan.
The judgement over the extent of revenue to the Directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the Groups be generated from North Africa is a key area of focus: forecasts by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and There has been investment in the Online Accommodation businesses for the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and the last three years, with 253m of goodwill and intangibles.
is forecasting high revenue and profit growth rates in the next five years resulting from the investment in Brazil and in Asia.
If these growth rates We performed sensitivity analysis around the long-term growth rates are not achieved, it could lead to impairment of the related goodwill and and discount rate to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions intangible assets: and that would be required for the goodwill and other intangible assets in individual CGUs to be impaired.
We determined that a movement The assessment of the overall long term growth rates and discount rates arising of this extent in those key assumptions was unlikely and that the used by management, because small changes in either of these can result disclosures made regarding the assumptions and the sensitivities drew in a significant change in the value in use.
attention to the more significant areas of judgement.
Russia We reviewed the likely future cash flows from the Russia joint venture In addition, the Group has a joint venture in Russia and Ukraine.
Following and focused on the speed at which the Russian market will return to the civil war in Ukraine and the impact of the devaluation of the rouble, trading levels similar to that achieved in 2013.
The level of trading will the businesses in Russia and Ukraine made losses in the year and there determine the ability of the business to generate sufficient cash to repay is uncertainty over the future trading environment and cash flows from the trading and non-trading balances.
We agreed with managements these businesses.
Management has now assessed that the long-term conclusion to impair the loans and the October and November 2014 non-trading balances with the Russian joint venture have been impaired committed funding.
We read investment committee and Board minutes and also provided for the committed funding which was paid to the joint and discussed with management and as a result were satisfied there is venture in October and November 2014.
In total, impairment charges of no unprovided committed funding to the Russia joint venture.
28m have been made during the year.
106 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors report to the members of TUI Travel PLC continued Area of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions and other areas of balance sheet judgement We assessed and tested the judgements made by both Group and local Refer to page 74 Provisions for claims and accruals and management teams relating to key balance sheet positions.
Hotel prepayments within the Audit Committee Report, page 123 In particular, we challenged, for example by assessing against past history Significant Accounting Policies and pages 154 & 158 notes.
or agreeing to supporting evidence: The relative size of the balances in the consolidated balance sheet compared the estimated costs associated with maintaining aircraft under existing to the size of the underlying operating profit of the Group makes the lease agreements: income statement very sensitive to changes in the consolidated balance the anticipated claim and payment rates used within the calculation sheet.
Certain lines within the balance sheet, such as airline and hotel of denied boarding compensation liability: cost accruals within accruals and deferred income of 1.5bn, provisions the closing provisions associated with ongoing legal matters: 644m and prepayments 632m, require more judgement on the part the appropriateness of the carrying value of hotel prepayments: of management and are therefore an area of greater focus for the audit.
the appropriateness of the internal and external costs capitalised In June 2014 TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC announced their intention to for development projects: complete an all share nil premium merger.
the estimate of accruals for airlines and hotels costs: and The timing of the publication of certain documents related to the merger the assumptions used within the calculation of pension liabilities.
resulted in the need for management to make judgements on closing In each case we considered the judgements made by management to balance sheet positions earlier than usual during the year end process be reasonable in light of the evidence provided.
and to make an estimate of the years underlying operating profit in early October 2014.
Shareholders made decisions based on this estimate which placed additional pressure on management not to change the estimate of underlying operating profit and the judgements made.
Separately disclosed items SDis We assessed the appropriateness of the policy for SDIs and whether the Refer to page 74 SDI within the Audit Committee Report, page 116 significant items that were included within the SDIs were appropriately Significant Accounting Policies and page 129 notes.
We also considered whether there were other significant items which should have been included as SDIs by obtaining a list of significant Credits of 73m and debits of 72m have been included in SDI in the one-off transactions and assessing these against the policy for SDIs.
We found that the classification judgements and disclosures made by As separately disclosed items and other categories are excluded from management were in line with the policy.
underlying operating profit the nature and consistency of classification of these items is important in understanding the result for the year and is a matter of judgement.
taxation We assessed and formed our own views on the key judgements with Refer to page 74 Tax within the Audit Committee Report, Note 1 to respect to open tax positions and found that the judgements made by the financial statements for the Directors disclosures of the related management were consistent with our views.
We tested the calculations accounting policies, judgements and estimates and notes 8 & 14. and payments in relation to the VAT position of Hotelbeds Product SLU and found no material misstatements.
There is significant complexity in the calculation of direct and indirect tax balances that arises from the complexity of the Groups legal structure We read the external advice the Group has received with respect to the including multiple legal entities in non-fiscal consolidations, the multiple assessment that no provision is required for German trade tax and tax jurisdictions and changing tax environment in which the Group operates concurred with managements conclusion and the resulting disclosures.
and the differing underlying systems used by the Group to generate We understood the underlying transactions basis for significant deferred accounting entries.
In addition we focused on specific tax issues with respect tax assets and liabilities and we found evidence to support the rationale to German trade tax as set out in note 8 iv and the VAT position of on which the deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised.
We tested the calculations performed in respect of the locations within The Group also has deferred tax assets of 165m and liabilities of 67m Group audit scope with particular emphasis on the UK where each legal in the balance sheet at 30 September 2014.
During the year the Group entity files a separate tax return and Germany which includes two levels has performed a review of all deferred tax assets and liabilities to ensure of tax federal and state.
We found no material misstatements from they have been calculated correctly and that they are substantiated by our testing.
There is judgement in the assessment of Where the recoverability of deferred tax assets is dependent on future whether deferred tax assets will be utilised in future periods, particularly profits, such as in France, we checked that the forecasts used were given the cyclicality of the business and the difficulty in estimating when consistent with the Board approved three year plan that we subjected and where taxable profits will arise around the Group.
to scrutiny as part of the goodwill impairment review.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition We assessed the consistency of the application of the revenue recognition See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosures of the policy by reconsidering the accounting policy for the different sources of related accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the controls including IT controls over revenue systems across the We focused on recognition of revenue because there can be a significant Group to determine the extent of additional substantive testing required difference between the timing of receipt of cash from customers and the and also tested key reservation system reconciliations at 30 September subsequent recognition of revenue on the holiday departure date.
We found no material misstatements from our testing.
manual intervention and the high volume of transactions, the high number of different reservation systems and the interfaces of these with the We checked that revenue had been recognised at the correct time by testing accounting records there is the potential for deliberate manipulation a sample of transactions and comparing the departure dates against or error.
which the revenue had been recognised.
No exceptions were noted from our testing.
Our work also included testing a sample of manual journals which did not identify any items that could not be substantiated.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 107 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION how we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together whole, taking into account: the geographic and management structure with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of of the Group: the accounting processes and controls: and the industry our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures in which the Group operates.
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The Group is structured along three segment lines being Mainstream, Accommodation & Destinations and Specialist & Activity.
The Groups Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for financial statements are a consolidation of its world-wide reporting the financial statements as a whole as follows: units, comprising its operating businesses within these segments and Overall Group materiality 27.5 million 2013: 27.5 million centralised functions.
How we determined it 4.5% of underlying operating profit In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we determined 2013: 5% the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units Rationale for benchmark We note that underlying operating profit is by the Group engagement team and by component auditors from applied the key measure used both internally by other PwC network firms and from two other firms working under management and, we believe, externally by our instruction in respect of Canada and Russia.
Where the work shareholders in evaluating the performance was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of of the Group.
This measure excludes SDIs, involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting acquisition related expenses, impairments, units so as to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit tax on joint ventures and associates, evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group interest and tax.
We applied specific financial statements as a whole.
materiality levels for each of these items because of their particular sensitivity.
For each reporting unit we determined whether we required an audit of their complete financial information or whether higher level procedures We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them would be sufficient.
Those where a complete audit was required included misstatements identified during our audit above 1.4m 2013: 1.4m the two largest reporting units Mainstream UK & Ireland and as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, Mainstream Germany, because they each make up more than 15% warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
of the Groups revenue or underlying profits.
We included a further 18 reporting units due to the risk characteristics of those units, either due Going concern to the control environment or the nature of the business as an airline, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors another 16 reporting units so that the major source markets were statement, set out on page 101, in relation to going concern.
We have covered across all sectors, six additional reporting units as a consequence nothing to report having performed our review.
of both the maturing control environment and our consultations with As noted within the Directors Report on page 101, the Directors have the Audit Committee and performed specified procedures on a further concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements eight reporting units to cover specific balances.
using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis In addition, we performed higher level procedures with respect to the presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in remaining reporting units.
The Group consolidation, financial statement operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our engagement team at the head office.
These include derivative financial audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern instruments, hedge accounting, pensions and share based payments.
The Group engagement team also visited 15 businesses in nine countries However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, UK, Germany, France, Nordics, Belgium, Netherlands, Russia, Canada these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to and Spain to direct the planning, review the work undertaken and continue as a going concern.
Taken together, our audit work performed at individual component locations and at the head office addressed 87% of Group revenues and 83% of absolute Group operating profit i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant reporting units.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
108 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors report to the members of TUI Travel PLC continued Other required reporting consistency of other information companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 67 to 72 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements iSAs UK & ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 102, in accordance with Code Provision C. 1.1, that they We have no exceptions to report consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the arising from this responsibility.
information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 73-76, as required by Code Provision C. 3.8, describing the work of We have no exceptions to report the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Our responsibilities and those of the Directors our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from out on page 102, the directors are responsible for the preparation of this responsibility.
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices this responsibility.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
corporate governance statement This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any this responsibility.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the prior consent in writing.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 109 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We focus our work primarily in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of TUI Travel PLC for the year ended 30 September 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Roger fide Peyrecave Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 3 December 2014 a The maintenance and integrity of the TUI Travel PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
