STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC Opinion on Financial Statements of In our opinion: Tullow Oil plc the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Accounting Policies with related notes 1 to 32 and the Company Accounting Policies with related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 78 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risks How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We evaluated managements assessment of E&E assets carried forward with Carrying Value of Exploration and Evaluation reference to the criteria of IFRS 6 and the Groups successful efforts accounting E&E assets policy see page 124.
In 2014, the Group has reconsidered their exploration The carrying value of E&E assets at 31 December strategy and locations for future exploration focus in the context of a lower oil price 2014 is $3,660.8 million and the Group has written environment.
Our evaluation has paid particular attention to these circumstances.
off E&E assets totalling $1,662.4 million in the year.
See note 12 for further details.
Our procedures included understanding the Groups ongoing E&E activity, for which we participated in meetings with operational and finance staff at all key The assessment of the carrying value requires locations.
We also gathered evidence including confirmations of budget allocation, management to exercise judgement around complex on-going appraisal activity and the licence phase to assess the value of E&E areas, as described in the Groups critical accounting assets carried forward.
These areas of judgement include the Groups intention to proceed with a future Where an asset has been impaired we have challenged management on the events work programme for a prospect or licence, the that led to the impairment, including reference to future budgeted expenditure.
likelihood of licence renewal or extension and the Where an asset has demonstrated indicators of impairment but has been retained success of drilling and geological analysis.
on the balance sheet, we have gathered evidence in respect of the continuance or otherwise of appraisal activity, allocation of budget and any conclusion on commerciality.
com 113 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC We examined managements assessment of impairment indicators, which Carrying value of PP&E assets The Group has recognised PP&E assets of identified the recent fall in oil prices and an increase in decommissioning cost estimates as indicators of impairment for all producing assets.
$4,887.0 million at 31 December 2014 and has recorded impairments against PP&E of $595.9 Our audit work assessed the reasonableness of managements estimations of million in 2014.
See note 13 for further details.
the recoverable amount of each asset.
Specifically our work included, but was not limited to, the following procedures: As described in the Groups key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 127, the assessment benchmarking and analysis of oil and gas price assumptions against forward of the carrying value of PP&E assets requires curves, peer information and other market data: management to exercise judgement in identifying verification of estimated future costs by agreement to approved budgets: indicators of impairment, such as a decrease in oil agreement of hydrocarbon production profiles and proved and probable price or a downgrade of proved and probable reserves to third party reserve reports: and reserves.
When such indicators are identified, management must exercise further judgement in recalculation and benchmarking of discount rates applied with involvement making an estimate of the recoverable amount of the of Deloitte valuation specialists.
asset against which to compare the carrying value.
In responding to this risk our key audit procedures included: Recoverability of contingent consideration Management have fully impaired the receivable for review of the relevant sales agreements and correspondence between the contingent consideration arising from the 2012 farm Group and the purchasers in 2014 to evaluate the reasonableness of down of interests in Uganda, resulting in the managements judgement regarding the trigger for receipt of the contingent recognition of a loss on disposal of $370.1 million consideration: in 2014 note 10. challenge of managements estimate of project approval dates through The Groups key sources of estimation uncertainty review of JV partner approved operational reports, minutes and budgets on page 128 explain that the quantum of contingent relating to the relevant projects: and consideration receivable is dependent upon the date performance of external research to challenge and corroborate at which certain project approvals will be obtained.
managements judgements regarding the timing of the project.
There is significant uncertainty regarding which events will qualify as project approvals under the terms of the sale agreement and when such events will occur.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in estimating these items as they have a material impact on the Financial Statements.
Our audit response to this risk was to evaluate the provisions and potential Provision for tax claims including Uganda exposures together with tax specialists within the audit team from relevant capital gains tax claim jurisdictions.
We also obtained correspondence with the relevant tax authorities The nature, rate and type of taxation which is and used our knowledge of the specific tax regimes to challenge the Groups applicable to hydrocarbon exploration and assumptions and judgements regarding the level of provisions made.
production activities varies widely by jurisdiction and the Group is therefore subject to various Specifically for the Uganda capital gains tax claim, we obtained and reviewed the claims in the course of its business.
court judgements and correspondence and external legal opinion that were used by management in making their assessment of the ultimate outcome of the Significant judgement is required to estimate the ongoing legal process.
We also considered the appropriateness of the accounting appropriate level of provision for the tax claims treatment described in the Groups key sources of estimation uncertainty note on against the Group as the validity and ultimate page 127 and the calculation of the contingent liability disclosed.
outcome of such claims can be uncertain.
Finally, we have evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the above At 31 December 2014, the Group has disclosed in transactions within the Group Financial Statements.
their key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 127 that in Uganda they are subject to a claim for capital gains tax of $407 million against which $142 million was paid in 2012 as required by law in order to appeal.
A contingent liability of $265.3 million has been disclosed in note 29 on page 150.
114 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our audit approach to this risk was to perform the following procedures: Decommissioning provisions The Group has recognised decommissioning we obtained and reviewed evidence relating to the cost estimates used by provisions of $1,192.9 million at 31 December 2014 management, which principally comprised a third party engineering report: which are disclosed in note 24. we assessed the competence and independence of managements internal The recognition and measurement of and external experts and discussed the key assumptions directly with decommissioning provisions involves estimation of them both: the quantum of expenditure on items such as drilling we performed procedures to verify the appropriateness of the source data rigs, offshore support vessels and experienced used in the estimates, for example the number of wells to be personnel in combination with estimates and decommissioned at each field: assumptions on the timing, legal requirements, we challenged the reasonableness of the key cost elements such as rig rates technical approach and scope, all of which are by benchmarking them to external data: uncertain and require significant judgement to be exercised.
we confirmed that the estimated dates of decommissioning were consistent with the latest estimates of field lives: The nature of decommissioning activity is such that these estimates have a material impact on the we confirmed the reasonableness of the discount rate applied to the Financial Statements and the Group has noted calculations including benchmarking it against available market data: and decommissioning costs as a key source of estimation we verified the mathematical accuracy of managements calculations.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 81.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $80 million 2013: $100 million, which is below 2% of equity and is below 5% of pre-tax loss 2013: below 2% equity and below 8.5% pre-tax profit.
The decrease in materiality in 2014 reflects the decrease in the Groups revenues and profits as a consequence of the volatility in the oil price environment and the decrease in the Groups net assets following the impairments recorded in the year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.6 million 2013: $2 million, as well as differences below that threshold which, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope for the current and prior year included a full audit of all eight reporting unit locations, based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
These eight reporting units account for 100% of the Groups total revenue, profit before tax and net assets.
The materialities used for these components ranged from $20 million to $35 million.
The Group team audits the UK, Kenya and Uganda reporting units directly.
Their involvement in the work performed by component auditors varies by location and includes, at a minimum, a review of the reporting deliverables provided by the component audit teams.
In addition, the Senior Statutory Auditor or senior members of his Group audit team, visited the following reporting locations in the year: Gabon, Ghana, Kenya, South Africa, Norway and the UK, to review the audit work performed by the component auditors.
com 115 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed In our opinion: by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to report by exception in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
116 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements Directors and auditor and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Financial Statements the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Carl D Hughes MA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 10 February 2015 Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ www.
