80 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report Independent auditors report To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion: Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 49.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Corporate Governance report on page 60 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect misstatement on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Oman contract termination Refer to page 125 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over the uncertainty assessment of contract work performed on the contract and completeness accounting : and page 63 Audit Committee and accuracy of costs on the contract.
We have reviewed correspondence relating to Subsequent to the year end the Oman contract the contract termination, in addition to was terminated and hence there is significant understanding the events and circumstances judgement as to: surrounding the termination.
This included a further visit to Oman post year-end to meet the value of recoverable work performed with our local component auditor to provide and therefore revenue recognition of 12m appropriate oversight of their work performed in the year: and conclusions reached.
the required costs to deliver the remaining With regards to the work performed under the contractual obligations: contract, we have reviewed evidence from the and the recoverabilty of contract balances and contract engineer, who reports on the associated costs of recovering these contract completion of effort under the contract.
balances leading to a 39m provision as To determine the remaining costs to deliver the disclosed in note 36. contract, we have considered the status of subcontractor contracts and invoices received to date, in addition to committed spend for completing all obligations under the contract.
We assessed the recoverability of contract balances and associated costs of recovering these contract balances through our review of correspondence relating to the negotiations and the likely timing of any receipt or agreed settlement process.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 81 Independent auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material Risk How the scope of our audit responded misstatement continued to the risk Revenue recognition Refer to page 125 critical accounting judgements Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the and key sources of estimation uncertainty design and implementation of controls over longassessment of contract accounting : page 121 term contract accounting.
accounting policies revenue recognition : and To confirm that revenue and profit recognised to page 63 Audit Committee report significant date are based on the current best estimate of the judgements considered.
degree of work performed under the contract, we Revenue recognition is a risk area, specifically selected a sample of contracts and reviewed the in relation to: contract risk registers and evidence for the progress made against the contract such as Significant long term contracts.
Subject to milestone completion to provide evidence over meeting certain criteria, Ultra Electronics the judgement taken when providing for the adopts long term contract accounting for a cost of mitigating technical risks and meeting number of its contracts.
We also sought to verify the on this basis in the year was 387.1m.
In costs to complete by agreeing to evidence of these circumstances, a number of judgements committed spend, budgeted rates or actual costs are undertaken which specifically impact the incurred to date.
extent of revenue and profit recognised, including: determing the total contract value: We understood and challenged managements estimating the costs to completion and within assumptions by referring to evidence including this judgements relating to the provision for signed contract terms and latest project status the cost of mitigating technical risks and reports, and discussed contract progress and meeting future milestones: and assessing the future risks with contract engineers.
We also percentage of contract completion at the assessed the reliability of management estimates balance sheet date.
through consideration of the historical accuracy of prior period management estimates.
Delivery of goods, due to the complex contractual terms with regards to the transfer For each contract selected for testing, we made of risk and reward that arise within the enquiries as to any unusual contract terms or side Aerospace and Defence industry and therefore agreements separate to the original contract, in whether revenue has been appropriately addition to detail testing of billings and costs recognised.
The complexity is increased as incurred to date.
individual business units enter into different Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the contractual terms with different customers for design and implementation of controls around similar products.
We reviewed contractual evidence to understand how the specific terms in respect of the transfer of risk and reward had been met.
Then we performed a sample test of sales recognised either side of the year end, and outstanding trade receivables to substantiate whether the appropriate terms of the relevant contracts had been satisfied and that the risks and rewards associated with the contract had passed to the customer.
We used external evidence, such as shipping documentation or client acceptance documentation to confirm that revenue had been recognised in the appropriate period.
Introduction 82 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report Independent auditors report To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Our assessment of risks of material Risk How the scope of our audit responded misstatement continued to the risk Goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 125 critical accounting judgements Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the and key sources of estimation uncertainty design and implementation of controls over goodwill impairment : pages 120 and 122 monitoring the carrying value of goodwill and accounting policies intangible assets : and acquired intangibles.
page 63 Audit Committee report significant Independently we identified and challenged judgements considered.
managements assessment of the cash generating The Group recognised 299.0m of goodwill and units within the Group based on a review of the 138.7m of acquired intangibles at 31 December cashflows internally reported by management, 2014.
There is a risk regarding the potential and our understanding of the Group structure.
impairment of the carrying value of these assets We challenged the assumptions used by given the judgements management are required management in their impairment assessment by to make in respect of the assumptions used to using valuation specialists within the audit team determine their recoverable amount.
to benchmark the discount rate against The key judgements include identification of independently available data, together with cash generating units, growth rates in future peer group analysis, our understanding of the cashflow forecasts both short term and longer secured orders underpinning the Groups term, discount rates applied to these forecasts, cashflow forecasts, and the historical and determining the impact of reasonably performance of the businesses.
possible changes in these assumptions.
Having audited the assumptions, we checked that the impairment model had been prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and was arithmetically accurate.
We challenged the appropriateness of managements sensitivities based on our work performed on the key assumptions, and recalculated these sensitised scenarios.
Acquisition accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the Refer to page 125 critical accounting design and implementation of controls over judgements and key sources of estimation acquisition accounting.
uncertainty acquisition accounting : For the current year acquisitions, we made use of page 120 accounting policies business our valuations specialists to support our review of combinations : and page 63 Audit Committee the acquisition accounting, and in particular the report significant issues considered.
valuation of acquired intangible assets identified.
During the year, the Group entered into four We obtained calculations for the fair value business combinations, being 3 Phoenix Inc. adjustments for these acquisitions and assessed Forensic Technology WAI Inc. ICE Corporation Inc. whether the period of assessment was correct as and Lab Impex Systems.
In aggregate, 104.5m well as confirming that the adjustment was was paid in respect of acquisitions.
supported by actual trading data.
There is a risk that acquisitions are not For contingent consideration, we agreed the accounted for correctly in line with IFRS 3 underlying data in the contingent consideration Business Combinations.
The risk relates to the calculation to signed sale and purchase assumptions and assertions used by agreements and the trading performance for management to forecast future trading the audited entity for the current period, and performance to determine both the fair value of approved budgets for future performance.
We acquired assets and future contingent assessed whether managements treatment of consideration payments.
contingent consideration payment arrangements for former owners, as either additional purchase consideration or postacquisition remuneration, is appropriate.
For historical acqusitions we compared the forecast contingent consideration positions to the post year end trading results, approved budgets and historical levels of settlement.
We recalculated the release of 8.4m of the balance based on the audited financial results and assessed whether management has disclosed adequately the release of the provision in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 83 Independent auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material Risk How the scope of our audit responded misstatement continued to the risk Provisions Refer to page 125 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over the uncertainty provisions : page 123 accounting appropriateness and completeness of provisions.
policies provisions : and page 63 Audit We recalculated and assessed managements Committee report significant issues considered.
estimates for the provisions in conjunction with There is judgement required in respect of our understanding of the potential liability as set potential provisions required on long term support out in contract terms.
arrangements and warranties in respect of In respect of warranties, we assessed the level of complex mission critical product manufacturing, provisioning by verifying the actual failure costs due to the products being bespoke to the incurred to date and the products in circulation environment in which they are operating.
We used external evidence Provisions total 31.3m at 31 December 2014. to evaluate the adequacy of the warranty We have deemed the appropriateness and provision, including sales data, credit notes raised completeness of provisions made by management post year-end and contract terms together with in respect of product warranties and other any correspondence with third parties in respect provisions to be a risk for these reasons.
of product failures and claims.
In response to other provisions, we circularised the Groups external legal advisors and reviewed legal costs incurred in the year to confirm the completeness of legal cases to which the Group is party.
Through external evidence including submitted legal advice and discussion with management, we sought to substantiate the basis for the Groups expections over likely outcomes and their subsequent quantification of the related provisions.
Pensions Refer to page 125 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over the uncertainty pensions : page 122 accounting accounting for defined benefit pension schemes.
policies pensions : and page 63 Audit We included pension specialists within our audit Committee report significant issues considered.
team to assess the appropriateness of the The Group operates five defined benefit pension assumptions through benchmarking to industry schemes, for which there is judgement in data, and methodology used to value the determining the IAS 19 valuation as recorded at defined benefit pension schemes at the balance the balance sheet date.
these five schemes had a total net IAS 19 deficit In addition, we circularised the independent of 87.3m.
actuary and investment managers responsible for The valuation is based on a number of managing the pension fund to confirm the source assumptions on both a micro and a macroinputs into the pension valuation.
This confirmed economic level as disclosed in the notes to the completeness of the pension assets and the the accounts.
valuation for which we further agreed a sample to publically available asset valuations.
The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 63.
With the exception of the Oman contract termination, our risks are consistent with the 2013 year-end.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Introduction 84 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We have used professional judgement in determining an appropriate materiality benchmark, this includes consideration of alternative benchmarks.
On this basis, we determined materiality for the Group to be 6.2 million 2013: 8 million, which represents 7% 2013: 9% of adjusted underlying pre-tax profit, and 2% 2013: 2% of equity.
Adjusted underlying pre-tax profit is defined as underlying pre-tax profit as presented by management, after adding back amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The Group has established a track record of making acquisitions and hence we consider amortisation of acquired intangibles to be relevant when considering our basis for determining materiality.
We agreed the materiality levels with the Audit Committee following the presentation of our Audit Plan in September 2014 and further agreed that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 124,000 2013: 160,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Following on from the Oman contract termination post year-end, we revisited our materiality and concluded that it remained appropriate.
We further report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 25 2013: 21 locations: the increase reflecting the acquisitions in the year.
14 2013: 14 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 11 2013: 7 were subject to either an audit of specified account balances or specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 25 2013: 21 locations represent the principal business units and account for 87% 2013: 87% of the Groups net assets, 91% 2013: 91% of the Groups revenue and 91% 2013: 93% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
They also provided an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 25 2013: 21 units was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant overseas components locations at least once every three years.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work Opinion on other matters prescribed by In our opinion: the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 85 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report by exceptions Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the and auditor preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kerr Mitchell FCA, Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 27 February 2015 6.
