STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our audit approach Overview Our opinion Overall group materiality: $8.45 million which Materiality In our opinion, Acacia Mining plcs group financial statements represents approximately 5% of profit before tax the financial statements : adjusted for items included within Other Charges as presented on the face of the Consolidated give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Income Statement and detailed within note 10. at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: We identified three mine sites located in Tanzania Scope which, in our view, required an audit of their have been properly prepared in accordance with International complete financial information.
In addition we Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the conducted other audit procedures in London, European Union: and South Africa and Tanzania.
Taken together, the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of territories and functions where we performed our the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
audit work accounted for 100% of revenue and What we have audited approximately 93% of profit before tax.
Acacia Mining plcs financial statements comprise: Impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible Areas of focus assets and property, plant & equipment: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: Taxation including provisions for uncertain the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement deferred tax positions and the recoverability of comprehensive income for the year then ended: of indirect taxes: and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: The recoverability of the consumables balances the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then at the Buzwagi site.
ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the the financial statements and are identified as audited.
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently as adopted by the European Union.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts, and the process by Impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible assets which they were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical accuracy of and property plant and equipment the cash flow models and agreeing future capital and operating expenditure to Acacia Mining has goodwill of $127.9 million, indefinite-lived intangible the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved Life of Mine plans.
assets of $83.3 million and property, plant & equipment of $1,425.3 million as at 31 December 2014.
Impairment charges to goodwill, For each significant mine site, we used our specialist valuation knowledge indefinite-lived intangible assets and property, plant & equipment have to evaluate the appropriateness of key market related assumptions in been recognised in prior periods.
managements valuation models, including both short term and long term gold prices, and discount rates.
We assessed the reasonability of For the Bulyanhulu mine, which contains goodwill $121.5 million managements future capital and operating expenses in light of their and property, plant and equipment $1,042.3 million, and Exploration historical accuracy and the current operational results.
assets, which contains goodwill $6.4 million, indefinite-lived intangible asset $83.3 million and property, plant and equipment $2.7 million We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within the determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-inthe cash flow forecasts using a range of higher discount rates and lower use and fair value less costs to dispose, requires judgement on the part long term gold prices based on what, in our view, a market participant of management in both identifying and then valuing the relevant Cash may apply.
Having ascertained the impact of the changes in assumptions, Generating Units.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements we considered the likelihood of such movement in those key assumptions views of variables such as future commodity prices, timing and approval arising and the overall impact on the recoverability of the assets and of future capital and operating expenditure and the most appropriate goodwill.
Our analysis illustrated that using more conservative assumptions discount rate.
did not result in impairment and that the disclosures covered the significant areas of judgement.
Management must also determine the recoverable amount for other assets including property, plant & equipment when impairment In considering potential impairment reversals we focussed on North Mara, indicators are identified.
As at 31 December 2014, North Mara and considered whether continued progress with the Groups planned and Buzwagi have $361.2 million of property, plant & equipment.
underground development was at a sufficiently advanced stage to support a sustainable reversal of the prior year impairment, however determined As well as considering indicators of impairment, for assets other that a reversal is not required.
than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets management must determine whether any indicators of reversal of previous impairments are apparent.
In particular, management assessed whether previously recorded impairments against property, plant & equipment should be reversed in light of changes in mine plans, and improved profitability.
includes $19.1 million of Corporate Office property, plant and equipment, not considered to be within the scope of this area of focus.
We read correspondence between management and the Tanzanian Revenue Deferred and indirect taxes Authority and assessed managements position in relation to the specific The Group has material deferred tax balances which include prior year matters disputed.
Refer to note 34 for tax related contingencies disclosed.
tax loss assessments that continue to be in dispute with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority.
In relation to deferred tax, we also assessed the availability of estimated future taxable income to utilise recognised carry forward losses and the In addition, the Group has recorded significant indirect tax receivables, reversal of temporary deferred tax differences by comparing the estimates of which a material amount has not been refunded in a timely manner.
to the to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved Life of Mine plans.
We also determined: based on payments received to date, a reduction in the level of receivable, and the existence of a memorandum of settlement for the long term element of the receivable, that the indirect tax receivable was recoverable, and appropriately classified between current or non-current.
We examined the Annual Report disclosures to ensure the risk associated with recovery was evident.
We attended two independent inventory sample counts performed by Consumables Inventory balances at Buzwagi site local management during the course of the year including one at year We focused on this area because of the risk of existence of the large end.
During these counts we observed the Groups process and procedures quantity of consumables on hand at Buzwagi $99 million, in addition and performed independent test counts by selecting a sample of items to the short remaining life of mine that could have an adverse impact from both the accounting records and from the inventory on hand.
on the valuation of the consumables.
We tested managements assessment of inventory net realisable value through substantive testing of the provision in place for slow moving and obsolete inventory and compared this to the forecast usage over the remaining life of mine.
Based on the forecast usage we found that sufficient provision exists.
98 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, statement, set out on page 41, in relation to going concern.
We have taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting nothing to report having performed our review.
processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that The Groups assets and operations are primarily located at three mine it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going sites in Tanzania.
Financial reporting processes related to the activities concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that of these mine sites are undertaken at shared business centres SBCs the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the located in Dar es Salaam and Johannesburg.
Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the three mine sites and the SBCs by us, as the Group engagement team and However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, by component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to our instruction.
We requested that full scope audits were performed at continue as a going concern.
Acacia Exploration and each of the three main mine sites which includes the relevant SBC.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those sites SBCs to be able to conclude whether sufficient Consistency of other information appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion Companies Act 2006 opinions on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In our opinion: Involvement of our Group engagement team included site visits at the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors three mines, conference calls with our Tanzanian audit team, review of Report defined on page 86 for the financial year for which the Tanzanian auditor work papers, attendance at local audit clearance the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the meetings, and other forms of communication as considered necessary financial statements: and depending on the significance of the accounting and audit issues arising.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement as Materiality set out on pages 55 and 56 with respect to internal control and The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
risk management systems and about share capital structures is We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together consistent with the financial statements.
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the to report to you if, in our opinion: financial statements as a whole as follows: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information report arising from in the audited financial statements: or Overall group $8.45 million 2013: $11 million.
apparently materially incorrect based on, materiality or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or How we Approximately 5% of profit before tax adjusted otherwise misleading.
determined it for items included within Other Charges the statement given by the Directors on We have no as presented on the face of the Consolidated page 57, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of exceptions to Income Statement and detailed within note 10. the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, report arising from Rationale for We considered an adjusted measure to be that they consider the Annual Report taken as a this responsibility.
benchmark applied the most relevant in assessing the underlying whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and financial performance of the Group as this provides the information necessary for members to provides us with a consistent year on-year assess the Groups performance, business model basis for determining materiality.
and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them of performing our audit.
misstatements identified during our audit above $1 million 2013: the section of the Annual Report on page 60, We have no $1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions to view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
describing the work of the Audit Committee report arising from does not appropriately address matters this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Adequacy of information and explanations received What an audit of financial statements involves Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether this responsibility.
This includes an assessment of: Directors remuneration whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified disclosed: by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the this responsibility.
Directors: and Corporate Governance Statement the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a We have nothing to report having performed our review.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited AND THE AUDIT financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Our responsibilities and those of the Directors knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
OTHER MATTER Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards of Acacia Mining plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the Ethical Standards for Auditors.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for as having been audited.
the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Jonathan Lambert Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 9 March 2015 100 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
