Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vedanta Resources plc Opinion on financial statements of Vedanta Resources plc How the scope of our audit responded to the risk In our opinion: We have: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the reviewed managements assessment as to whether indicators of Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 impairment exist for operating assets and development projects, and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: specifically, in relation to the Lanjigarh expansionary project and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the iron ore operations in Goa and Karnataka: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards obtained and assessed the valuation models used to determine the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: value in use or fair value less costs to sell of the relevant asset by the parent company financial statements have been properly challenging the key assumptions made by management in relation prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted to these models, including the expected timings of approvals and Accounting Practice: and renewal of licences, commodity prices, discount rate applied, source the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of reserve and production estimates, potential resources to reserves the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the conversion ratios, exchange rates, and operating and capital Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
expenditure estimates, by reference to independent third party evidence and consultation with operational management.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income assessed whether assumptions had been determined and applied Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, on a consistent basis across the Group: and the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the assessed the procedures performed by management during the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of year to progress the approval of environmental clearances.
Changes in Equity, and the related notes 1 to 58.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Revenue recognition Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by IAS 18 Revenue and the Groups revenue recognition policy permits the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been revenue to be recognised only when the risks and rewards of applied in the preparation of the parent company financial ownership have transferred from the seller to the buyer.
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The risk is related to: inappropriate recognition of sales made on a bill and hold or Going concern consignment basis: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors incorrect valuation of provisionally priced sales where the pricing is statement contained within the Strategic Report that the Group is a only finalised based on market prices subsequent to the balance going concern.
We confirm that: sheet date : we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern the value of regulated sales made to the Grid Corporation of basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is Odisha Limited Gridco where a dispute regarding the appropriate: and interpretation of the tariff agreement is pending appelate tribunal we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast resolution: and significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going the calculation of Cairns oil and gas sales on an entitlement basis.
We have reviewed the application of the Groups revenue recognition However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, policy and: this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue reviewed the terms of bill and hold agreements to conclude on the as a going concern.
point at which risk and reward transfer takes place: recalculated the value of provisional pricing adjustments and Our assessment of risks of material misstatement validating the assumptions used to third party data where possible: The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are challenged management in respect of whether the Gridco trade those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the receivables are recoverable through the review of state regulatory allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the commission and the appellate tribunal rulings, review of the engagement team: underlying power purchase agreements and the external legal opinions received and the involvement of Deloitte power specialists Risk to re-assess the tariff calculations: and Impairments reviewed the terms of Cairns profit sharing agreement and tested There is a risk associated with the assessment of the recoverable the underlying entitlement calculations.
amount of certain operating assets and development projects, specifically the Lanjigarh expansionary program within the Aluminium Litigation, environmental and regulatory risk business unit which remains on hold pending environmental Given the significant number of legal claims a risk exists that the clearances being obtained and the operations in Goa and Karnataka Group may not have adequately provided for liabilities.
There is also a within the Iron Ore business unit subject during the year to state-wide risk of the Groups reputation being brought into disrepute resulting in bans on iron ore mining.
The Group continues to be involved in a high number of legal claims.
As it is not unusual for For more information see note 2b in the financial statements that claims to remain outstanding for a number of years, there has been a provide further details and disclosures to this matter.
resultant steady increase in the number of cases over time with the regulatory environment becoming increasingly complex and regulators focusing on the environmental and social impacts.
These ongoing claims, environmental and regulatory enquiries are a threat to the future operations as well as the Groups current financial performance and reputation.
120 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information For more information see notes 37 and 41 in the financial statements We determined materiality for the Group to be US$75 million, which is that provide further details and disclosures to this matter.
approximately 5% of normalised pre-tax profit and below 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by adjusting for specific We have: one-off items: an estimated pre-tax profit for the suspended challenged management regarding their assessment of the operations impacted by the mining bans in Goa and Karnataka and probability of success in these cases, and the magnitude of any the interest expense associated with the expansionary programs on potential loss: hold which would ordinarily be capitalised.
Normalised pre-tax profit is focused our procedures on the terms and conditions of mining considered a more appropriate and less volatile measure reflecting licenses and performed procedures to gain assurance over the the underlying scale of the Group.
compliance and validity of all mining licences and environmental clearances: and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the inspected external legal opinions and other evidence that supports Committee all audit differences in excess of US$1.5 million, as well as factual information in managements responses.
differences below that threshold which, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit We have considered the impact of these procedures on the financial Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing statements and whether the disclosures therein are in accordance the overall presentation of the financial statements.
with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
An overview of the scope of our audit Taxation There is a risk the Groups aggregated taxation exposure in all Total revenue % jurisdictions, including the exposure to withholding taxes following 2 past acquisitions, financing and transfer pricing arrangements, sales 1 Full scope 92% 2 Specic procedures 8% taxes and recognition of deferred taxation assets and liabilities, may not have been adequately valued and disclosed in the financial statements due to the complexities, timescales for resolution and the need to negotiate with various tax authorities.
For more information see notes 12, 30 and 37 in the financial statements that provide further details and disclosures to this matter.
We reviewed all potential taxation exposures within the Group and, through discussions with the Groups taxation department, the tax 1 specialists within the audit team and review of relevant documentation, including external legal advice, we evaluated the Net assets % appropriateness of the provisions raised and contingent liability 2 disclosures.
1 Full scope 99% 2 Specic procedures 1% We considered, in the context of our tax specialists prior experience of similar issues, the Groups exposure to withholding taxes following past acquisitions, the current tax exposure following the Groups internal restructuring, transfer pricing arrangements and deferred taxation assets and liabilities recognised to assess whether these matters were appropriately reflected and disclosed in the financial statements.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 1 93 to 97.
Total PBT % Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to 2 1 Full scope 100% express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion 2 Specic procedures 0% on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
1 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 121 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Vedanta Resources plc Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Directors remuneration Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the audit work at 15 locations.
Eleven of these were subject to a full is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have audit, whilst the remaining four were subject to an audit of specified nothing to report arising from these matters.
account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the Corporate Governance Statement materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 15 Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the locations represent the principal business units and account for 100% Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax offset on compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance consolidation by losses elsewhere in the Group.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report work at the 15 locations was executed at levels of materiality Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual materiality.
report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and statements: or carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of financial information not subject to audit or audit of specified account performing our audit: or balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is where the group audit scope was focused at least once every five fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report years.
At each six month reporting date we include the component appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit partners and teams in our team briefing, discuss their risk audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, In our opinion: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 2006: and statements in accordance with applicable law and International the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to Matters on which we are required to report by exception ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in professional standards review team, strategically focused second our opinion: partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the from branches not visited by us: or companys members those matters we are required to state to them the parent company financial statements are not in agreement in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent with the accounting records and returns.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
122 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Kelly Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 14 May 2014 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 123
