100 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vesuvius plc Only Opinions and conclusions The risk: The Group recognised in 2013 Our response: In this area our audit arising from our audit a deferred tax asset of 29.2m in respect procedures included the use of our own of unutilised losses and other temporary global tax specialists to assess the Groups 1 Our opinion on the financial differences arising in the US.
The amount tax positions, and its correspondence with statements isunmodified We have recognised in 2014 has increased to the relevant tax authorities to analyse and audited the financial statements of Vesuvius 54.0m.
The Group also has losses and challenge the assumptions, such as the plc for the year ended 31December 2014 other temporary differences for which no likelihood of settlement, used to determine which comprise the Group income statement, deferred tax asset has been recognised in tax provisions based on our knowledge and the Group statement of comprehensive these financial statements.
The recognition or experience of the application of international income, the Group statement of cash flows, otherwise of a deferred tax asset in respect of and local legislation by the relevant authorities the Group and Company balance sheets, the these losses and other temporary differences and courts.
We also considered the adequacy Group statement of changes in equity, and is based on judgement in respect of the of the Groups disclosures in respect of the related Notes.
Inour opinion: timing and quantum of expected future income tax payable and provisions.
profits and the ability of the Group to offset The financial statements give a true and Provisions 52.7m : any of its accumulated losses against these fair view of the state of the Groups and Refer to page 68 Audit Committee report, expected profits.
of the parent Companys affairs as at page 146 accounting policy and page 146 31 December 2014 and of the Groups Our response: We compared the financial disclosures.
profit for the year then ended assumptions used in respect of future taxable The risk: In providing for known or probable profit forecasts to the Groups long-term The Group financial statements have been costs, resulting from indirect tax, legal, forecasts.
We considered, amongst other properly prepared in accordance with regulatory, or environmental requirements, things, historical levels of US tax profits, the International Financial Reporting Standards the Directors use their judgement, experience, historical accuracy of forecasts, the growth as adopted by the European Union and where appropriate receive external forecasts used by the Group, and the period The parent Company financial statements advice, in order to make provisions in the over which those forecasts were applied.
This have been properly prepared in accordance financial statements for such matters.
The included critically assessing the assumptions with UK Accounting Standards inherent uncertainty and risk could have and judgements made by the Directors material impact on the Groups financial in those growth forecasts, by using our The financial statements have been position and result for the year.
knowledge of the Group and the industry prepared in accordance with the in which it operates and by comparing Our response: In this area our audit requirements of the Companies Act growth assumptions to externally derived procedures included obtaining an 2006 and, as regards the Group financial data.
We also assessed the adequacy of the understanding from the Directors of the basis statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Groups disclosures setting out the basis of for their best estimates, and then challenging 2 Our assessment of risks of material the deferred tax balance and the level of the basis used with reference to the latest misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion estimation involved.
available corroborative information, in light above on the financial statements, the risks of of our understanding of the business, and by Income tax payable and provisions 44.9m : material misstatement that had the greatest obtaining third-party confirmations where Refer to page 68 Audit Committee report, effect on our audit were as follows: appropriate.
In addition we met with the page 115 accounting policy and page 118 Groups in-house legal counsel to discuss the Recognition of deferred tax assets 54.0m : financial disclosures.
nature of ongoing claims, and obtained formal Refer to page 68 Audit Committee report, confirmations from the Groups external The risk: Provisions for tax contingencies page 115 accounting policy and page 118 counsel for all significant litigation.
We also require the Directors to make judgements and financial disclosures.
assessed whether the Groups disclosures estimates in relation to income tax issues and about provisions, contingent liabilities, and the exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental movements in the year were appropriate.
areas that our audit concentrated on due to the Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other international tax legislation, and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities.
Financial StatementS 101 3 Our application of materiality and an audit procedures.
For coverage achieved component materialities, which ranged overview of the scope of our audit The by Group reporting please refer to the from 0.1m to 5.6m, having regard to the materiality for the Group financial statements chart below.
mix of size and risk profile of the Group as a whole was set at 5.7m 2013: 7.0m.
The work on 18 The remaining 27% of total Group revenue, This has been determined with reference of the 20 components was performed by 13% of Group profit before tax and 13% to a benchmark of Group profit before component auditors and the rest by the of total Group assets are represented by taxation, of which it represents 5% 2013: Group audit team.
33 reporting components, none of which 6.7%.
We have reduced the percentage of individually represented more than 4% of any The Group audit team visited six component the benchmark from 6.7% to 5% in 2014 to of total Group revenue, Group profit before locations in Brazil, the UK, the US, Germany, move in line with the peer group for other tax or total Group assets.
For these remaining Poland, and China.
components, we performed analysis at an meetings were also held with these We report to the Audit Committee any aggregated Group level to re-examine our component auditors and all others that were corrected or uncorrected identified assessment that there were no significant not physically visited.
At these visits and misstatements exceeding 0.3m, in addition risks of material misstatement within these.
meetings, the findings reported to the Group to other identified misstatements that audit team were discussed in more detail, The Group audit team instructed component warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
and any further work required by the Group auditors as to the significant areas to be audit team was then performed by the Of the Groups 53 reporting components, covered, including the relevant risks detailed component auditor.
wesubjected 17 to audits for Group reporting above and the information to be reported purposes and three to specified risk-focused back.
The Group audit team approved the materiality to the Group financial statements profit before tax Materiality 5.7m Group financial 111.2m statements materiality 0.3m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee coverage 13 13 27 12 18 Groups Groups profit Groups 48 revenue before tax total assets % % % 69 25 75 Covered by audits for Group reporting purposes Covered by specified audit procedures for Group reporting purposes Not in-scope for Group reporting purposes 102 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Vesuvius plc only continued 4 Our opinion on other matters Certain disclosures of Directors prescribed by the companies act 2006 remuneration specified by law are isunmodified In our opinion: notmadeor The part of the Directors remuneration We have not received all the information report to be audited has been properly and explanations we require for our audit prepared in accordance with the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are required Act 2006 toreview: The information given in the Strategic The Directors statement, set out on report and the Directors report for the page 94, in relation to going concern financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent The part of the Corporate governance with the financial statements statement on page 61 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten 5 We have nothing to report in respect provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate of the matters on which we are required Governance Code specified for our review to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you We have nothing to report in respect of the if, based on the knowledge we acquired above responsibilities.
during our audit, we have identified other Scope of report and responsibilities information in the Annual report that As explained more fully in the Directors contains a material inconsistency with either responsibilities statement set out on that knowledge or the financial statements, page97, the Directors are responsible for a material misstatement of fact, or that is the preparation of the financial statements otherwise misleading.
and for being satisfied that they give a In particular, we are required to report to true and fair view.
A description of the youif: scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting We have identified material inconsistencies Councils website at www.
uk between the knowledge we acquired auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made during our audit and the Directors solely to the Companys members as a body statement that they consider that the and is subject to important explanations and Annual report and financial statements disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and published on our website at www.
understandable and provides the com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are information necessary for shareholders incorporated into this report as if set out to assess the Groups performance, in full and should be read to provide an business model and strategy or understanding of the purpose of this report, The Audit Committee report does the work we have undertaken and the basis not appropriately address matters of our opinions.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee Paul Korolkiewicz Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, StatutoryAuditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Chartered Accountants required to report to you if, in our opinion: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 3 March 2015 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns or
