60 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Victrex plc Our response In respect of adjustments Our response In this area our audit Opinions and conclusions arising relating to fully absorbed manufacturing procedures included, testing of the from our audit costs our audit procedures included, controls over the maintenance of each 1 Our opinion on the financial among others: challenging the Groups schemes membership data as well as statements is unmodified assessment of the normal levels of sample testing from those data to the We have audited the financial production for absorption costing source documentation establishing the statementsofVictrex plc for the year purposes by comparison to actual obligation to members and vice versa.
ended30September 2014 set out on andbudgeted levels of production over With the support of our own actuarial pages62to85.
In our opinion: the past two years: understanding and specialists, we then challenged the key corroborating the impact of manufacturing assumptions applied to those data to the financial statements give a true and variances in relation to production output determine the Groups net deficit, being fair view of the state of the Groups and and comparing actual production output the discount rate, inflation rate, rate of of the parent companys affairs as at levels to standard and historical levels: and future salary increases, and mortality life 30September 2014 and of the Groups recalculating purchase price variances by expectancy.
This included a comparison profit for the year then ended: reference to actual purchase invoice costs.
ofthese key assumptions against externally the Group financial statements have derived data.
We also considered the In assessing provisions for slow moving beenproperly prepared in accordance adequacy of the Groups disclosures in and obsolete inventories our audit with International Financial Reporting respect of the sensitivity of the deficits procedures included: testing the Groups Standards as adopted by the European tothese assumptions.
controls designed to identify slow moving Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : and obsolete inventories: comparison, by 3 Our application of materiality and the Parent Company financial product grade, of inventory levels to sales anoverview of the scope of our audit statementshave been properly prepared data to assess whether slow moving and The materiality for the Group financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by obsolete inventories had been appropriately statements as a whole was set at 7.5m, the EU and as applied in accordance with identified by the Group and provided determined with reference to a benchmark the provisions of the Companies Act forbased on expected recoveries: and of Group profit before taxation of which 2006: and attending the year-end stock take to itrepresents 7.3%.
consider the extent of slow moving and the financial statements have been obsolete inventories.
We considered We report to the Audit Committee any prepared in accordance with the realisations ofslow moving inventories corrected and uncorrected identified requirements of the Companies Act 2006 during the year and post year end and misstatements exceeding 370,000, in and, as regards the Group financial compared these to the Groups expected addition to other audit misstatements that statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
recoveries for slow moving inventories at warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Wealso considered 2 Our assessment of risks of material We performed audits for Group reporting theadequacy of the Groups disclosures misstatement purposes at 7 of the Groups 14 reporting in respect of inventory.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on components, and a review of financial thefinancial statements the risks of material Retirement benefit obligations information at a further one component misstatement that had the greatest effect 7.8million, net obligations inJapan.
The latter was not individually on the audit were as set out below.
Refer to page 43 of Audit Committee Report significant enough to require an audit and note 14 of pages 78 to 80 for forgroup reporting purposes, but we Valuation of inventories 44.2 million accounting policy and financial disclosures performed a review due to its comparatively Refer to page 43 of Audit Committee Report remote geographical location and its and note 11 on page 74 for accounting policy The risk A valuation of the scheme operational significance to the Groups and financial disclosures liabilities is provided by an external operations in the Asia Pacific region.
actuary on behalf of the Group based on The risk The Group has 44.2m of various assumptions as set out in financial The audits for Group reporting purposes inventory and a number of estimates statements.
Significant estimates are covered 89% of Group revenue, 97% of areinvolved in arriving at the valuation made in valuing the Groups postprofit before tax and 99% of total assets.
ofinventories relating to fully absorbed retirement defined benefit schemes.
Intotal, the audits for Group reporting manufacturing costs and the assessment Smallchanges in assumptions and purposes and further review of one component of provisions against cost in respect of estimates used to value the Groups net covered 95% of revenue, 97% of profit before slow moving and obsolete inventories.
pension deficit would have a significant tax and 100% of total assets.
Given the level of judgements and estimates effect on the results and financial position involved this is considered to be a key of the Group and therefore this is audit risk.
considered to be a key audit risk.
com Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 61 For the remaining components, we performed In particular, we are required to report Scope and responsibilities analytical procedures to re-examine our toyou if: As explained more fully in the Directors assessment that there were no significant Responsibilities Statement, set out on page we have identified material inconsistencies risks of material misstatement within these.
59, the Directors are responsible for the between the knowledge we acquired preparation of the financial statements and The audits of components for group during our audit and the Directors for being satisfied that they give a true and reporting purposes were performed by statement that they consider that the fair view.
A description of the scope of an the Group audit team and the review was Annual Report and financial statements audit of financial statements is provided on performed by component auditors.
The taken as a whole is fair, balanced and the Financial Reporting Councils website Group team instructed the component understandable and provides the atwww.
auditors as to the significant areas to be information necessary for shareholders This report is made solely to the Companys covered which included the relevant risks toassess the Groups performance, members as a body and is subject to of material misstatement detailed above business model and strategy: or important explanations and disclaimers and set out the information required to the Audit Committee Report does not regarding our responsibilities, published be reported back to the Group audit appropriately address matters communicated onour website at www.
The Group audit team approved by us to the Audit Committee.
auditscopeukco2014a, which are the component materiality, which ranged incorporated into this report as if set out from 1.0m to 2.0m, having regard to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are infull and should be read to provide the mix of size and risk profile of the required to report to you if, in our opinion: anunderstanding of the purpose of this businesses within the Group.
adequate accounting records have report, the work we have undertaken notbeen kept by the Parent Company, andthe basis of our opinions.
4 Our opinion on other matters orreturns adequate for our audit have prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 notbeen received from branches not isunmodified visited by us: or In our opinion: the Parent Company financial statements Stuart Burdass Senior StatutoryAuditor the part of the Directors Remuneration and the part of the Directors Remuneration for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Report to be audited has been properly Report to be audited are not in agreement StatutoryAuditor prepared in accordance with the with the accounting records and returns: or Chartered Accountants Companies Act 2006: and St James Square certain disclosures of Directors remuneration the information given in the Strategic Manchester specified by law are notmade: or Report and Directors Report for the M2 6DS financial year for which the financial we have not received all the information 8 December 2014 statements are prepared is consistent and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview: 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required the Directors statement, set out on page to report by exception 58, in relation to going concern: and Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required the part of the Corporate Governance to report to you if, based on the knowledge Statement on pages 35 to 43 relating we acquired during our audit, we have tothe Companys compliance with the identified other information in the annual nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate report that contains a material inconsistency Governance Code specified for our review.
with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, We have nothing to report in respect of the or that is otherwise misleading.
