Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 90 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 91 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Vodafone Group Plc Opinion In our opinion: a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: a the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: a the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of financial position and parent company balance sheet, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the related Group notes 1 to 34 and the related parent company notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 89 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: a we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and a we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Our risk assessment process continues throughout the audit and, as a result, we have identified three additional risks of material misstatement in the current year that had a significant effect on our audit strategy.
These relate to the disposal of the investment in Verizon Wireless, the acquisition of Kabel Deutschland Holding AG and judgements in respect of provisions and contingent liabilities.
In addition, we identified deficiencies in IT controls in relation to privileged user access which also impacted our audit strategy.
The remaining risks were assessed as continuing risks from our audit of the previous years financial statements.
The procedures described in our response to each risk are not exhaustive and we have focused on those procedures that we consider address areas of judgement or subjectivity.
As part of our audit of the Group, in addition to substantive tests, we also test the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Vodafone Group Plc 92 Annual Report 2014 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Our significant findings in respect of each risk are communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee and a high level summary is as follows.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying value of Our work focused on detailed analysis and challenge of the assumptions used by management in goodwill and intangible assets required conducting the impairment review as described in Note 4 to the Group financial statements.
This included: During the year the Group recorded impairment a challenging forecasts, with particular attention paid to the European businesses, where charges in Europe as a result of challenging we have evaluated recent performance, carried out trend analysis and compared economic conditions and continuing downward to market expectations: pressure on prices.
a using our valuations specialists to independently develop expectations for the key macroeconomic assumptions driving the analysis, in particular discount rates, and comparing the independent expectations to those used by management: and a comparing growth rates against those achieved historically and external market data where available.
We have also evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed by management and the disclosures relating to the impairment review.
The key judgements in respect of the We have involved our valuation, financial instruments and tax specialists in responding to this risk transaction to dispose of the Groups investment and focused our work on: in Verizon Wireless relate to the valuation of the a assessing the appropriateness of the fair values assigned to each element of the consideration consideration and calculation of the related gain received by reference to third party data as applicable: on disposal.
a evaluating managements assessment of embedded derivatives within the sale and There are a number of additional accounting purchase agreement: complexities including assessment of embedded derivatives, the tax effect of the a challenging the fair value of Vodafone Italy and the related allocation of the purchase price disposal, and the related acquisition of a to the assets and liabilities acquired by reference to the key assumptions used: and controlling interest in Vodafone Italy.
a testing of controls around the transaction process.
We also evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the transactions within the Group financial statements.
The tax affairs of the Group are complex, Our approach was to use our tax specialists to evaluate tax provisions and potential exposures for particularly as they relate to the legal claim in the year ended 31 March 2014, challenging the Groups assumptions and judgements through respect of withholding tax on the acquisition of our knowledge of the tax circumstances and a review of relevant correspondence.
Hutchison Essar Limited and the recognition and In particular, we have assessed legal advice obtained by management to support the judgement measurement of deferred tax assets in Germany taken in relation to the withholding tax case in India, which included discussion with external and Luxembourg.
We also considered the adequacy of disclosure in this respect.
Evaluation of the legal claim in respect In respect of deferred tax assets, we have considered the appropriateness of managements of the withholding tax on the acquisition assumptions and estimates.
We have assessed managements view of the likelihood of generating of Hutchinson Essar Limited is subject to suitable future taxable profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets, including a .
consideration of whether the changing circumstances of the Group affect the conclusion, in The recognition of deferred tax assets particular with regard to recent acquisitions, disposals and impairment charges.
in Germany and Luxembourg requires assessmentof both the availability of losses andfuture profitability.
The accounting for the acquisition of Kabel We have made use of our valuations specialists to support a review of the acquisition accounting Deutschland Holding AG required a significant and in particular the purchase price allocation.
This involved challenging both the identification amount of management estimation.
and valuation of tangible and intangible assets.
Key judgements relate to the allocation of We also reviewed the work of the local auditors and conducted additional audit procedures to the purchase price to the assets and liabilities assess other aspects of the accounting including the adjustments made to align accounting acquired and adjustments made to align policies with those of the Group.
We identified deficiencies in certain privileged Where these deficiencies affected specific applications within our audit scope, we extended our user access controls at the IT infrastructure controls testing to provide assurance over both compensating controls and the completeness level that could have a negative impact and accuracy of management information used in other key controls.
In addition, and where on the Groups controls and financial appropriate, we extended the scope of our substantive procedures.
A number of the Groups significant IT applications depend upon the infrastructure affected.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 92 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 93 We have identified three critical judgement We have provided component audit teams with detailed instructions regarding the audit of areas in relation to revenue recognition and the revenue, which is performed as part of each full scope and statutory audit at component level.
associated presumption of fraud risk, namely: Our approach included both controls testing and substantive procedures covering, in particular: a accounting for new products and tariff plans, a audit of the switch to bill process to assess the revenue and costs accruals made at the including multiple element arrangements: year end: a the timing of revenue recognition: and a testing of the process for capturing and assessing the accounting impact of new tariff plans, a the accounting judgements associated with combined with substantive testing of a sample of related transactions: dealer and agency relationships including a scrutinising a sample of dealer and agency contracts and the associated accounting the presentation of revenue on a net or gross assessments: and basis and the treatment of discounts, incentives and commissions.
a testing of the controls around the significant revenue and billing systems by our IT specialists.
In addition to these procedures performed locally, we review the results of their work and attend the full scope audit close meetings: we also perform a detailed review to check that the Group accounting policies for revenue recognition comply with IFRS.
The continued threatened and actual legal, In responding to this risk, our key audit procedures included: regulatory and tax cases brought against the a testing key controls surrounding litigation, regulatory and tax procedures: Group, and the high level of judgement required to establish the level of provisioning, increases a meeting with management in each of the significant local markets and review of subsequent the risk that provisions and contingent liabilities Group correspondence: may not be appropriately provided against or a meetings with the Group litigation, regulatory and tax teams: adequately disclosed.
a meetings with regional management: and Due to the lower materiality level applied in our audit for the year ended 31 March 2014 this a circularisation of legal letters to relevant third party legal representatives and direct discussion is now considered a risk that has a significant regarding any material cases: impact on our audit strategy.
The Audit and Risk Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 62.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and the findings we described do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 250 million, which is below 5% of adjusted profit before tax, below 5% of statutory loss before tax and below 1% of equity.
Profit before tax has been adjusted for separately disclosed items, notably impairment charges and the trading results of Verizon Wireless prior to its classification as a discontinued operation.
We consider this adjusted measure to be a key driver of business value and a focus for shareholders.
Materiality is lower than for the year ended 31 March 2013 primarily as a result of the disposal of Verizon Wireless.
The Audit and Risk Committee requested that we include in our audit report all identified unadjusted audit differences in excess of 5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on the disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Total unadjusted audit differences reported to the Audit and Risk Committee would have increased loss before tax by 24 million, decreased net assets by 18 million and increased opening equity by 6 million.
Materiality m 500 250 n 2013 n 2014 Vodafone Group Plc 94 Annual Report 2014 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued An overview of the scope of our audit The Group operates in 27 countries across two geographic regions.
The Group has centralised certain transaction processing to finance shared service centres in Hungary and India, with key judgements and the remaining transactions accounted for at the country or Group level.
We have centralised our audit procedures in the same locations and employed analytics technology to support the audit of the majority of the operating companies in the Group.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Our Group audit scope focused on the shared service centres, the Group functions and a further seven operating locations: the UK, Germany, Italy, Spain, India, Vodacom and Turkey.
The scope for the year ended 31 March 2014 included the addition of Turkey and Cable & Wireless Worldwide through the UK business when compared to the scope for the year ended 31 March 2013.
All of these were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Together with the Group functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit, these operating locations represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 77% of the Groups revenue and 77% of the Groups total assets.
Audits of these operating locations were carried out at a component materiality level of 100 million which is 40% of the Group audit materiality, or the local statutory materiality if lower.
In addition, audits are performed for local statutory purposes at a further 13 locations, which represent a further 22% of the Groups revenue and 23% of the Groups total assets.
Audits of these locations are performed at a local materiality level calculated by reference to the scale of the business concerned.
Where possible, the timing of statutory audits is aligned to the full scope timetable and any significant findings are reported to us.
In order to support our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit, we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures at the parent entity level.
The disposal of the Groups interest in Verizon Wireless was also audited at this level, supported by review procedures on the trading results of the business conducted in the United States.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the seven locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least twice a year.
Other locations are visited on the basis of ongoing risk-assessment.
Our visits are timed to allow the Group audit team to be involved in the planning process for the year end audit, including assessment of risks of material misstatement and planned response, to attend the audit closing meetings and to assist in the resolution of audit and accounting issues.
We also ensure we have on-going communication with component teams throughout the year.
Revenue Total assets Specified audit procedures: 1% Local statutory audit: 23% Local statutory audit: 22% Full audit scope: 77% Full audit scope: 77% Impact of changes to materiality on audit scope We consider that, if materiality were to be reduced to 125 million, full scope component audits would be required in the Netherlands and Egypt which would add 7% of revenue and 4% of total assets to the overall full scope coverage.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: a the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and a the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: a we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or a the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
