Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 49 Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Opinion on financial statements of WH Smith PLC In our opinion: preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 August 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statement on page 47 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards that: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern the parent company financial statements have been properly basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted is appropriate: and Accounting Practice: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the concern.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income However, because not all future events or conditions can be statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated to continue as a going concern.
and parent company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the related notes 1 to 27 to the Consolidated financial Our assessment of risks of material misstatement statements and the related notes 1 to 9 to the Parent Company The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
engagement team: Nature of risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventory Assessing net realisable value is an area of significant judgement, We have assessed the appropriateness of the inventory provision by with specific consideration in relation to the estimate of provision for initially understanding the methodology and then challenging slow-moving and obsolete inventory.
management on this methodology with reference to the historical accuracy of the provision against actual losses.
We assessed the accuracy of the application of the provisioning methodology by recalculation, assessing actual and forecast sales of provisioned inventory lines to check that the provision percentage applied is appropriate and in line with the documented provisioning policy and inventory ageing.
We understood and tested the interface between the IT systems in place over inventory and the inventory provisioning system to satisfy ourselves as to the accuracy and integrity of the data.
Property The Group has an extensive and diverse property portfolio.
As a We assessed the appropriateness and movement of existing result, there are several technically complex areas or judgemental provisions based on our understanding of any developments in the aspects to consider when accounting for property and leases across period that would be expected to impact on the amounts recognised the Group, including: and through recalculation.
onerous lease and other property related provisions for nonIn respect of provisions recognised in the year we challenged the trading stores and other property across the Group: nature and amount of the provisions recognised, using our internal impairments for loss making stores: and property specialists where appropriate to consider significant the recognition of income from property related transactions.
We tested the basis adopted by management for determining whether an onerous lease or store impairment exists.
This involved considering the assumptions used by management in estimating impairments for both loss-making stores and store closures and challenging the timings and recognition of associated provisions.
We assessed each property transaction completed in the period by reviewing the associated contract and challenging that the income generated from transactions was appropriately recognised.
WH Smith PLC 50 Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Nature of risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Under ISAs UK and Ireland there is a presumed risk of fraud in We performed controls testing over the revenue cycle to ensure the revenue recognition because of the pressure management may feel accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial to achieve planned results.
As the vast majority of revenue is settled statements.
We tested controls over the recording of revenue in the in cash or by credit card we focused on manual adjustments to relevant IT systems and the general ledger, the interface between revenue as they are more susceptible to manipulation.
We also the point of sale system and the general ledger, and performed focused on the occurrence of transactions and whether they were substantive testing of revenue recorded during the year.
recorded in the period in which the Group became entitled to record In addition we tested significant manual journal entries posted to revenue.
revenue to identify and understand unusual or irregular items and obtained evidence to support their recognition.
Supplier income Judgement is exercised in respect of assessing the appropriate We performed analytical procedures for supplier agreements recognition of income generated from a range of commercial recognised, such as comparing income to the level of purchases and agreements with suppliers, including incentives, rebates and sales made, to assess the completeness of the supplier income in discounts, which is recorded in cost of sales.
For those agreements open at the year end we obtained a sample of supplier agreements and assessed the appropriateness of the recognition of income by assessing the underlying contractual arrangements and recalculating the amount of income recognised.
We reviewed papers prepared by management for the Board which contained a detailed analysis of supplier income and a review of supplier income relationships to assess whether it was consistent with our understanding of and testing of these arrangements, and that the amounts recognised as income were in accordance with the Companys policy in respect to income associated with supplier arrangements.
Taxation Given the estimation uncertainty in respect of settlements with Utilising our tax specialists, we assessed all significant tax taxation authorities tax provisioning has been identified as a risk of exposures across the Group and challenged the estimates and material misstatement.
judgements made by management inherent in the provisions recognised.
We considered the nature of these provisions and the historical settlements reached between the Group and the tax authorities.
In addition we reviewed correspondence with relevant taxation authorities.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the page 26.
Committee all audit differences in excess of 108,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our the overall presentation of the financial statements.
opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion An overview of the scope of our audit on these individual matters.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Our application of materiality assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic The Group operates with two divisions, High Street and Travel, with a decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed head office function providing support to these divisions.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our they account for all of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit.
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
These two divisions and the head office function were subject to a full audit, by the same audit team, at levels of materiality applicable We determined materiality for the group to be 5.4m, which is to each component which were lower than Group materiality.
below 5 per cent of statutory profit before tax and below 1 per cent of equity.
Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 51 At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that As explained more fully in the Statement of directors there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of aggregated financial information of the remaining components not the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those In our opinion: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 2006: and procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards report for the financial year for which the financial statements are review team, and independent partner reviews.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Companys members those matters we are required to state to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest our opinion: extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility we have not received all the information and explanations we to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members require for our audit: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Scope of the audit of the financial statements received from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the parent company financial statements are not in agreement disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable with the accounting records and returns.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have Directors remuneration been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the Corporate Governance Statement audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual report Stephen Griggs FCA Senior statutory auditor Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor report is: London, UK materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or 16 October 2014 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
