86 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WILLIAM HILL PLC Opinion on financial statements of William Hill PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Group Accounting Policies, and the related notes 1 to 33, the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies in the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 58 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Strategic report 87 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Our work focused on detailed analysis and challenge of the assumptions used by management in conducting impairment reviews.
This included: The annual impairment test is a complex process requiring significant management judgement and is based on assumptions about future agreement of cash flow assumptions to board-approved budgets: profitability and cash flows, appropriate discount rates and long-term challenge of short-term growth rates used in the Groups and growth rates as disclosed in note 12 of the Group financial statements.
components forecasts by reference to current performance, considering managements historical budgeting accuracy and in the context of independent growth estimates: consideration of the appropriateness of long-term growth rates by comparison to the historical average long-term growth rates achieved in the country of operation: we considered the appropriateness of the identified cash generating units in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: using our valuations specialists to independently calculate appropriate discount rates for comparison with those used by management: and we have sensitised managements assumptions to reflect reasonably possible future alternative scenarios.
Consideration of useful economic lives UELs of remaining We have challenged the judgements taken by management and intangible assets verified the expected UELs with reference to approved business plans and minutes of board meetings held throughout the period.
As noted in the key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 96 of the financial statements, management review the UELs of intangible We have recalculated the additional, accelerated amortisation charge assets on a periodic basis.
A change in estimate may materially impact recognised in the financial statements, with specific consideration to the amortisation charge in the current and future periods.
the period over which the assets are being amortised and the date on which the UELs were reassessed.
As disclosed in notes 3 and 12 to the financial statements, the UELs of certain Australian brand assets acquired in previous years have been We have also considered the appropriateness of the indefinite life reassessed resulting in additional, accelerated amortisation being assumption of the intangible assets in the Retail Cash Generating Unit charged to the income statement of 44.5 million.
through discussion with management of future business plans, review of forecasts and the likelihood and costs associated with licence renewal.
In addition as disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements, 484.3 million of indefinite life assets remain unamortised in the Retail Cash We have considered the appropriateness of the amortisation period of Generating Unit.
the remaining intangible assets through discussion with management and review of future information technology capital expenditure plans Software and acquired technology platforms with a net book value of and proposals.
83.5 million are being amortised over a period of between three and ten years.
Revenue recognition including the completeness and valuation Together with our IT audit specialists we tested the operating of ante post revenue deferral effectiveness of both manual and automated controls in the revenue cycle including cash reconciliations from the betting operating systems.
The appropriate identification and valuation of all open bets in place at the period end may have a material impact on revenue recognised in We substantively recalculated the amount and validity of revenue the period.
recognised on a sample of bets placed during the year and where appropriate used data analytic procedures to recalculate revenue recognised within the Online sportsbook business.
Where open bets were identified through our procedures we agreed these amounts to the fair value calculation of ante post bet liabilities to test for completeness and valuation.
We have assessed the judgements made in the fair value calculation and, therefore revenue recognised on open bets, by comparing margins applied to the gross liabilities to historical margins achieved.
Assessment of underlying assumptions used to calculate We worked with our own actuarial specialists to test the assumptions pension scheme liabilities used by management in valuing the scheme liabilities by comparison to industry benchmarks and prior period rates adopted.
Actuarial valuation of the pension scheme liabilities represents an area of significant judgement for the financial statements.
Changes to underlying assumptions such as discount, inflation and mortality rates, as disclosed in note 31, may have a material impact on the value of the 340.5 million gross liabilities recognised 2013: 327.8 million.
Valuation of corporation tax provisions Our audit approach was to use our internal tax specialists to evaluate those tax provisions recorded by management and potential tax The way in which William Hill organises its operations in different exposures.
We challenged managements judgements utilising tax jurisdictions requires management to make judgements and estimates specialists in the UK, Australia and Gibraltar using their experience in in relation to interpretation of local tax laws and potential tax provisions country specific tax law and experience in similar structures and and exposures.
In assessing those judgements taken we also considered relevant correspondence with tax authorities.
88 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WILLIAM HILL PLC Last year our report included a risk that concerned the appropriate valuation of intangible assets identified in business combinations.
No such business combinations have occurred in the current year and therefore this risk is no longer applicable.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 61.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 15m 2013: 14.1m, which is below 5% 2013: 5% of pre-tax profit before those exceptional items disclosed in note 3 to the Group financial statements, and below 2% 2013: 2% of equity.
Pre-tax profit before exceptional items has been used to exclude the volatility of such exceptional items from our determination.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3m 2013: 0.3m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four locations: UK: Gibraltar: Australia: and USA.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for over 99% 2013: over 99% of the Groups net assets, the Groups revenue and the Groups pre and post exceptional profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on each of the four locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 7.5 million to 9.75 million 2013: 7 million to 9.1 million.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We include all component audit teams in our team briefing and discuss their risk assessment.
The audit procedures in the UK and the USA were performed by members of the Group audit team.
In the current year the Senior Statutory Auditor visited both Australia and Gibraltar.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviewed relevant audit working papers.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
