Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Financial statements 76 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WM MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the approach adopted for their impairment assessment properly reflected the FROM OUR AUDIT methodology used.
We considered whether the Groups disclosures about the key assumptions within the impairment calculation and 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the ISUNMODIFIED risks inherent in the determination of the recoverable amount.
We have audited the financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc for the 52 week period ended 2 February 2014 set out on pages 79 to Onerous contracts onerous property commitments 126.
In our opinion: Refer to note 5.1 accounting policy and note 1.4 financial disclosures the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the The risk The Group has entered into a number of property purchase Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 2 February 2014 and arrangements which commit them to purchase or lease, and in some of the Groups loss for the year then ended: cases develop, sites in the future.
Due to changes in market conditions the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in and contractual conditions development may no longer proceed.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted The Groups forecasts of expected future performance, which are by the European Union: the basis for the estimation of recoverable amounts, and estimation the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared of property values are inherently uncertain.
This is one of the key in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and judgemental areas on which our audit is concentrated.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group In respect of contractual commitments to purchase or lease financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
development sites we analysed the Groups evaluation of the site 2.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF specific cash flow forecasts and compared them to costs incurred to MATERIALMISSTATEMENT date, historical build costs and the level of commitment within each In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks contract.
We considered correspondence between the Group and its of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were external legal advisor regarding the likelihood of a development site as follows: proceeding and the Groups ability to exit the contract.
We have also considered external contracts to corroborate the unavoidable costs to Impairment of property, plant and equipment, which the Group is committed.
onerous contracts and onerous lease obligations We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the The Group has conducted an impairment review which considers the approach adopted for their onerous property purchase commitments carrying value of under-performing stores and property and associated properly reflected the methodology used.
The risks, and our response, in this area has been split into the Groups disclosures about the key assumptions properly reflected three sections for clarity.
Refer to page 56 Audit Committee report.
the risks inherent in the determination of the committed expenditure.
Property, plant and equipment impairment Onerous obligations onerous lease provision Refer to note 3.1 accounting policy and note 3.3 financial disclosures Refer to note 5.1 accounting policy and note 5.4 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group holds a significant value of property, plant and The risk There is a risk that the Group is committed to future lease equipment in the store estate and Kiddicare.
Market conditions within payments at sites where, in the challenging market environment, the grocery industry and current trading performance of the Group the business is underperforming to such an extent that a provision is mean that the Groups forecasts of future performance, which are the required.
The sites considered included leasehold grocery store cash basis for the estimation of recoverable amounts, and estimation of generating units and the overall cash generating unit for Kiddicare.
property values, are inherently uncertain.
This increases the degree of The Groups forecast of future performance includes, by necessity, a risk and, as a result, this is one of the key judgemental areas on which number of judgements relating to the forecasting and discounting of our audit is concentrated.
Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others: Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others: Considering the Groups key assumptions within their cash flow To identify stores where a provision might be required we compared the forecasts, such as relevant projected regional growth rates for Groups cash flow forecasts to annual lease payments and considered each store location, cost inflation, discount rates, and property the assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts.
This consideration valuations provided by external valuers engaged by the Group.
included corroboration of the key assumptions to our own assessments Consideration included comparing the growth rates used to a based on publicly available data and historical levels of profitability composite regional rate from externally available data, assessing the achieved.
We considered the historical accuracy of forecasting and historical accuracy of forecasting and sensitising key inputs to the sensitised key inputs to the model to determine the likely impact on model to determine the likely impact on the impairment calculation.
In respect of property valuations, we used our own property valuation specialists to assess the competence and qualifications of the valuers and to challenge the assumptions underlying the valuation.
We also considered the impact of the market competition on the property values in different geographies.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 77 To measure the onerous lease provision we considered the lease terms To determine whether the property lease to Ocado represented an and related exit clauses within the lease contracts.
We compared the operating or finance lease, we considered the Groups assertion that, Groups key assumptions, such as projected lease cost inflation, economic based on the requirements of accounting standards, the lease was growth, cost inflation, vacant periods and discount rates to historical an operating lease as it did not transfer substantially all the risks and trends.
We also sensitised key inputs to assist in determining the likely rewards of the property to the Group.
In making this comparison we impact of changes on the onerous lease calculation.
considered the terms of the lease agreement, the useful life of the asset compared with the useful life of similar assets held by the Group, We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the key the ability and likelihood, based on the terms of its option, of Ocado assumptions used in arriving at the onerous lease provision.
to renew the lease agreement on expiry and the discounted future cashflows under the lease compared with the value of the property.
Supplier income We have considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the Refer to page 56 Audit Committee report and note 1.1 accounting policy.
degree of judgement involved in the classification of the property lease The risk The Group receives significant amounts of supplier incentives, as an operating lease.
rebates and discounts collectively referred to as Supplier Income.
Stock This is recognised as a deduction from purchase cost.
There are a large Refer to page 56 Audit Committee report, note 5.1 accounting policy.
volume of individual arrangements and the terms of each agreement can be complex.
Interpreting these contractual arrangements involves The risk Judgement is involved in assessing the carrying value of making judgements about the extent to which the Group has met stock held, including estimates of the level of stock shrinkage arising.
performance conditions, which often span the end of the reporting The Group has a system of continuous stock records, tested by cyclical period, which results in a risk surrounding appropriate recognition counts of physical stock throughout the year, rather than stock counts in the correct period.
at all locations on the year-end date.
As a result the Group is required Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others, testing to estimate the level of shrinkage at the balance sheet date.
In addition, the design and operating effectiveness of controls put in place by judgement also exists regarding the levels of stock provision required to the Group to ensure that Supplier Income is calculated correctly and record stock at the lower of cost and net realisable value, including the recognised in the appropriate period.
We corroborated the Groups calculation of adjustments to incorporate the impact of Supplier Income assertion that performance conditions had been met by, on a statistical received on the stock cost.
sample of contracts, reading the Supplier Income agreement to Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others: understand the terms and conditions and recalculating the amount of Regarding stock shrinkage: testing the design and effectiveness of Supplier Income.
We also compared the assumed purchasing volumes controls over stock counts and the reconciliation of count results to in the rebate calculations to year to date purchases and historical the general ledger stock position, which is the basis of the Groups purchasing trends.
We agreed accrued Supplier Income to subsequent data on past experience of shrinkage.
We attended a number of counts invoicing and cash receipts to assess whether accrued income had been carried out during the year and re-performed the calculation used to appropriately recognised as Supplier Income in the year.
We inspected roll forward the count results, at each store, to form the year end stock post year end credit notes for evidence of amounts being refunded.
We compared the shrinkage rates identified across different We compared income trends by period, product category and supplier product categories at each count and investigated the unusual results to historical data, adjusted for the current trading performance of by corroborating the rates used to the historical count results.
compared the year end shrinkage rates to historical averages to assess the reasonableness of the year end adjustment.
Accounting for Ocado transaction Refer to page 56 Audit Committee report, note 4.6 financial disclosures.
In assessing the level of provision required to record the stock value at the lower of cost and net realisable value we considered the accuracy of The risk During the year the Group entered into a supply agreement the calculation made to adjust the stock cost for the effect of Supplier with Ocado to provide operational and distribution services for the Income and the Groups estimate of the value of stock where cost, after Groups online grocery business.
This transaction resulted in the Group adjustment for Supplier Income, exceeds its realisable value.
In respect purchasing from Ocado a company that owned a distribution facility, of the Supplier Income adjustment we recalculated the adjustment and entering into an ongoing service agreement with Ocado, including by comparing the value of Supplier Income received, on a product a leaseback of the property to Ocado.
Judgement was required in group basis, and the volume of stock still held at the year end.
We have assessing whether the purchase of the distribution facility that sat also considered the rate of stock turnover on a product group basis, within a company constituted an acquisition of a business or an asset compared stock turnover trends to historical trends, and considered the purchase and whether the property lease to Ocado represented an margins being made at a product group level in relation to the level of operating lease, and hence the property remaining in the Groups provisions held.
balance sheet, or a finance lease.
Our response In this area our procedures included, amongst others: Determining whether the arrangement represented a business combination: this included comparison of the Groups assertion that the acquired assets and liabilities did not represent a business to the requirements of accounting standards.
In making this comparison we considered the inputs and processes of the company acquired which included the number and seniority of employees acquired and the responsibility for insurance and maintenance of the site.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of judgement involved in classifying the transaction as an asset acquisition.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Financial statements 78 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WM MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC ONLY CONTINUED 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND In particular, we are required to report to you if: ANOVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that 40m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group they consider that the annual report and financial statements profit before exceptional items and taxation which we consider to be one taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups the financial performance of the Group.
performance, business model and strategy: or We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
in excess of 2m, in addition to other audit misstatements below that Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
in our opinion: Audits for group reporting purposes were performed at the key adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent reporting components in the UK, the Netherlands, and the Isle of Man.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received These audits covered over 99% of total group revenue, group profit from branches not visited by us: or before taxation and total group assets.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by the Group audit Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the team for the UK components and by component audit teams for the accounting records and returns: or Netherlands and Isle of Man components.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting not made: or components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set by, we have not received all the information and explanations we require or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality levels were set for our audit.
individually for each component and ranged from 0.2m to 26.8m.
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by Detailed audit instructions were sent to the overseas auditors in the the company Netherlands and the Isle of Man.
These instructions covered the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which the directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above concern: and and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
Regular contact is maintained with the overseas audit teams the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 50 throughout the process, including discussions on issues as they arise.
relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Formal reporting is received as part of the year end audit.
the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion: SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for set out on page 75, the directors are responsible for the preparation the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a consistent with the financial statements: and true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set at www.
This report is made solely out on page 57 with respect to internal control and risk management to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important systems in relation to financial reporting processes is consistent with explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published the financial statements.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material Adrian Stone misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 The Embankment Neville Street Leeds LS1 4DW 12 March 2014
