Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Report on the Group financial statements Goodwill and other intangibles We evaluated and challenged the Our opinion impairment assessment, Directors future cash ow forecasts In our opinion, Wolseley PLCs Group financial statements the particularly in the Nordic region for the Stark, Silvan and Neumann financial statements : businesses, and the process by Refer to page 72 Audit Committee t give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 July 2014 which they were drawn up, including Report, page 111 Accounting policies andof its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: comparing them to the latest Boardand critical estimates and judgements t have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial approved three-year plans, and testing the underlying value in use calculations.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The carrying value of goodwill and intangibles at 31 July 2014 is t have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the We also challenged: 1,198 million.
Of this, 1,037 million Companies Jersey Law 1991. t the Directors key assumptions for relates to businesses where there near-term and long-term growth rates What we have audited is substantial headroom between in the cash ow forecast by comparing Wolseley PLCs financial statements comprise: the value in use calculations and them to historic trading performance the carrying value of the net assets.
t the Group balance sheet as at 31 July 2014: and economic forecasts: and The risk is that the remaining balance t the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for of161 million is overstated.
t the discount rate by assessing the theyear then ended: cost of capital for the Company and We focused on the estimated values in t the Group cash ow statement for the year then ended: comparable organisations.
use of the Stark business 116 million t the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and goodwill and intangibles, the Silvan We performed sensitivity analyses t the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant business 24 million goodwill and around these key assumptions.
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
intangibles and the Neumann business Having ascertained the extent of 21 million goodwill and intangibles, change in those assumptions that Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report which make up this remaining balance either individually or collectively would and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial and for which there is low headroom be required for the goodwill and statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are and where trading performance intangibles in these businesses to be identied as audited.
impaired, we considered the likelihood The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of such a movement in those key We focused on this area because the assumptions arising and the adequacy of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the calculation of the value in use in these European Union.
of the disclosures made regarding the businesses requires management to assumptions and sensitivities Our audit approach make subjective judgements about their future performance.
The key Overview assumptions for these businesses are t Overall Group materiality: 33 million which set out in note 12. represents 5 per cent of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Recognition of supplier We tested the operating effectiveness of t We conducted audit work in the ten territories rebate income controls in place over recording supplier Materiality rebate income.
We agreed rebate terms inwhich the Group has significant operations.
Refer to page 72 Audit Committee to supplier contracts and assessed t Taken together, the territories where we report and page 111 Accounting whether appropriate assumptions performed our audit work accounted for 99 policies and critical estimates were used in rebate calculations.
per cent of Group revenues and 92 per cent and judgements We obtained supplier circularisations of Group profit before tax adjusted for nonAs is normal industry practice, the and considered historic cash receipts Audit scope recurring exceptional items.
to assess the accuracy of Directors Group has a number of rebate t We focused on: agreements in place with suppliers most estimates.
We took into account the patterns over several years in the Goodwill and other intangibles impairment of which are based on the calendar year assessment, particularly in the Nordic region.
rather than the Groups own financial overall rebate income for each major supplier and each type of agreement.
Additionally, in some cases the Areas of Recognition of supplier rebate income.
rebate income rises as a proportion of In addition, we evaluated the impact of focus The provision for slow-moving and the credit-worthiness of suppliers on the purchases as higher quantities or values obsolete inventory.
likelihood of recoverability of significant rebate balances.
The provision for product liability, employee In calculating the rebate income disputes, contract and commercial issues receivable, management is therefore andenvironmental exposures.
required to make estimates of future The provision for uncertain tax positions.
purchases for the rebate year.
Due to the complexity and supplier The scope of our audit and our areas of focus specic nature of each arrangement, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing it is difficult to fully automate the UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
rebate calculation process and hence We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of management is reliant on processes material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where outside the financial systems in most the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant reporting units to calculate the rebate accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future amounts due.
events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table on the next page together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
Wolseley plc 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed in the territories by us, as the Group The provision for slow-moving We tested the completeness of the data engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC within the system used to generate the andobsolete inventory network rms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by inventory provisioning by agreeing a component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have Refer to page 72 Audit Committee sample of inventory in warehouses and report and page 111 Accounting in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient branches to the data and recalculating appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the policies and critical estimates subtotals.
We also tested the accuracy and judgements Group financial statements as a whole.
of the resultant calculation by reviewing the calculation criteria and recalculating The balance of gross inventories at In the current year, the Group engagement team visited the US component audit the provision for a sample of products.
team: held a global partner meeting during the year which was attended by 31 July 2014 is 1,751 million, against which a provision of 113 million is component team partners from the USA, UK, Canada, France, and Denmark: and We examined the appropriateness of had regular dialogue with the component teams throughout the year.
The Directors estimate this the provisioning methodology based provision by comparing the level of on historical experience and future The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of inventory held to future sales projected.
complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head ofce.
The provision is calculated within the These included derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting, impairment, Groups accounting systems using litigation and share-based payments.
We focused on the accuracy and completeness Materiality of the provision because of the risk of The scope of our audit is inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set error in the system calculation and the certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative input of underlying data, as well as the considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the judgements required in estimating future nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of sales projections.
misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The provision for product liability, We evaluated the Directors process to Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial employee disputes, contract identify and quantify such exposures statements as a whole as follows: and commercial issues and and obtained supporting evidence for Overall Group materiality 33 million 2013: 32 million.
environmental exposures the key assumptions including reports from specialists where appropriate.
How we determined it 5 per cent of profit before tax, adjusted Refer to page 72 Audit Committee for non-recurring exceptional items.
report, page 111 Accounting policies We also discussed these matters with and critical estimates and judgements internal legal counsel, obtained letters Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax, and page 131 Notes from external counsel and considered adjustedfor non-recurring exceptional the appropriateness of the disclosure items provides us with a consistent yearThe Company is subject to litigation made in the Group financial statements.
on-year basis for determining materiality and claims in relation to product liability, by eliminating the non-recurring impact employee disputes, contract and of these items.
commercial issues and environmental exposure.
The outcome of these We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements claims can be inherently uncertain, identied during our audit above 1.5 million 2013: 1.5 million, as well as as the ultimate liability for potential misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for legal claims and other matters may be qualitative reasons.
dependent upon facts that are currently uncertain or unknown, the outcome Going concern of litigation proceedings and possible The Directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 3 of the UK settlement negotiations.
Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement in relation to going concern, set out in the Directors report, required for UK registered companies with a The provision for uncertain We involved our teams in the relevant premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
jurisdictions who have knowledge of tax positions the local tax law to understand the The Directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as Refer to page 72 Audit Committee extent of the exposure arising from if the Group were a UK registered company.
We have nothing to report having report and page 112 Accounting theGroups arrangements.
policies and critical estimates and judgements We obtained the latest correspondence As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is between the Group and the relevant tax appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis The Group operates in a number authorities and considered the views of of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate of territories and recognises tax the Groups external advisers on these resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for based on interpretation of local matters where appropriate.
at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of laws and regulations which are our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis sometimes uncertain.
The Group We met with senior management is appropriate.
and challenged the judgements has established provisions against uncertain tax positions which requires andevaluated the appropriateness However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these Director judgement.
statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in the 10 territories in which the Group has significant operations.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head ofce finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
Wolseley plc 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Other required reporting Responsibilities for the financial statements andtheaudit Consistency of other information Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page t information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions 79, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the this responsibility.
audited financial statements: or Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require apparently materially incorrect based on, or us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the audit: or Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies is otherwise misleading.
Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to t the statement given by the Directors on page 72, in We have no exceptions whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly accordance with Provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate to report arising from agreed by our prior consent in writing Governance Code the Code, that they consider this responsibility.
the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, What an audit of financial statements involves balanced and understandable and provides the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the information necessary for members to assess the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Groups performance, business model and strategy statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the This includes an assessment of: Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
t whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: t the section of the Annual Report on page 71, as We have no exceptions required by Provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing to report arising from t the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: the work of the Audit Committee does not this responsibility.
and appropriately address matters communicated by t the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the Adequacy of information and explanations received disclosures in the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Corporate governance statement controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with nine Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, having performed our review.
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Opinion on other matters or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Other matter consistent with the financial statements.
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2014.
Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants andRecognized Auditors London, United Kingdom 29 September 2014 Wolseley plc 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
