Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Report on the Company financial statements Other required reporting Our opinion Other information in the Annual Report Our opinion Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion Wolesley plcs Company financial statements the financial t materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or statements, dened below: t apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our t give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2014 knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or and of its profit for the year then ended: and t otherwise misleading.
t have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
Opinion on other matter What we have audited In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report The financial statements comprise: for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
t the Company balance sheet as at 31 July 2014: t the Company profit and loss account for the year then ended: and Opinion on additional disclosures t the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The Company voluntarily prepares a Directors remuneration report in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have requested The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is that we audit the part of the Directors remuneration report specified by the UK United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies What an audit of financial statements involves Act 2006.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Responsibilities for the financial statements and give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material theaudit misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Our responsibilities and those of the Directors t whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: on page79, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial t the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in t the overall presentation of the financial statements.
accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report to identify material This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information Companys members as a body in accordance with terms of engagement and that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior implications for our report.
Other matters on which we are required to report Other matter byexception We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Wolseley plc for Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations the year ended 31 July 2014. received We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: t proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or t the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor t we have not received all the information and explanations we require for for and on behalf of  LLP our audit.
Chartered Accountants London 29 September 2014 Wolseley plc 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
