Our 2014 financial statements Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements of WPP plc Going concern In our opinion: We have reviewed the directors statement on page 178 that the Group financial statements give a true and fair the Group is a going concern.
view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys We confirm that: affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit we have concluded that the directors use of the going and the parent companys loss for the year then ended: concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the the Group financial statements have been properly financial statements is appropriate: and prepared in accordance with International Financial we have not identified any material uncertainties that Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to European Union: continue as a going concern.
the parent company financial statements have been However, because not all future events or conditions properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The financial statements comprise the accounting policies, the consolidated income statement excluding the US dollar information, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the parent company profit and loss account and balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 43.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies to the Group financial statements, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
WPP 232 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Our 2014 financial statements Independent auditors report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
As part of our risk assessment procedures we obtained an understanding of and tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal controls at Group level and at each of the full scope audit components that respond to the identified risks, in addition to performing the substantive audit procedures detailed below.
Risk How the scope of our substantive audit procedures responded to the risk Revenue recognition accounting for media volume income We have: Assessing the timing of recognition and valuation of media Challenged the timing of recognition and valuation of media volume income earned on media contracts in accordance with volume income earned on media contracts and assessed the the underlying contractual terms is an area of complexity.
Given ageing of balance sheet provisions.
the complexity involved this is considered to be a key audit risk.
Checked that management could demonstrate that persuasive Refer to page 121 Review of the Audit Committee and page 184 evidence exists in respect of the arrangement with the supplier accounting policy.
at the time revenue is recorded.
Closely monitored the trend of media volume income recognised against prior year activity.
Goodwill In order to address this key audit risk we audited the assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill.
In doing so, we: Determining whether the carrying value of goodwill is recoverable requires management to make significant estimates concerning the Challenged the key assumptions used, including specifically the estimated future cash flows and associated discount rates and operating cash flow projections, discount rates, and long term growth rates based on managements view of future business growth rates.
The key assumptions used for estimating cash flow prospects.
The Group is highly acquisitive.
As such, given the projections in the Groups impairment testing are those relating to magnitude of the goodwill balance 2014: 9,979 million, 2013: revenue growth and operating margin.
9,473 million, and the relative sensitivity to certain inputs to the Compared these assumptions to externally derived data where impairment testing process, in particular the discount rate, the applicable as well as forming our own assessment.
valuation of goodwill is considered a key audit risk.
Our internal fair value specialists assisted in computing an Refer to page 121 Review of the Audit Committee, page 182 independent assessment of the discount rates used and assessing accounting policy and page 204 financial disclosures.
the methodology used in preparing the impairment testing model.
We considered the sensitivity of the impairment testing model to changes in key assumptions.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
Taxation We have: There is uncertainty in respect of resolving matters with tax Discussed and considered all significant taxation exposures authorities around the world.
The highly disaggregated nature of with Group management including their tax specialists.
the Group coupled with its acquisitive nature means that there are Together with our internal taxation specialists we challenged a number of different tax jurisdictions in which the Group could be the estimates and judgements made by management when liable to pay tax, making potential tax exposures a key audit risk.
calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the Therefore assessing the Groups exposure to significant tax risks associated provisions held.
and the level of provisions recognised is an area of judgement.
We reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in Refer to page 121 Review of the Audit Committee, page 186 significant locations where available, as well as reviewing the accounting policy and pages 200 and 207 financial disclosures.
support or opinions received from external counsel and other advisors where management has utilised such opinions to make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 233 Our 2014 financial statements Independent auditors report Risk How the scope of our substantive audit procedures responded to the risk Restructuring costs and IT transformation Our audit procedures were designed to test that the expenses incurred were accurately recorded, capturing both amounts In the current year the Group implemented a significant paid during the year and amounts estimated and accrued.
restructuring program which has resulted in restructuring costs of 89 million, primarily severance costs, being recognised in In order to assess compliance with IFRS requirements, when testing the income statement.
In addition, the Group incurred costs of restructuring charges we inspected underlying information and 39 million in relation to an IT transformation project, which supporting documentation, such as formal communication with will result in a substantial portion of the Group operating on a employees, to confirm that severance provisions recognised at consistent global IT platform in the future.
the year-end are appropriately specific and committed to.
The recognition of restructuring and IT costs requires judgement As part of our procedures, we assessed the expenses with in arriving at the categorisation and magnitude of each of these reference to historical average spend to ensure the expenses were charges, including consideration of timing of net economic outflows part of discrete and identifiable projects that were outside the and the extent to which the Group is committed to such actions at normal course of the Groups operations, in order to ensure that the balance sheet date.
The presentation in the financial statements excluding the costs from Headline items was appropriate.
also requires consideration of whether the amounts included in the With respect to the IT transformation costs we further considered charge shall be added back when calculating headline earnings.
the nature of the activity for costs incurred through inspection of For this reason, such charges were a key area of audit focus.
underlying supporting documentation, in order to assess whether Refer to page 121 Review of the Audit Committee and page 198 expensing the costs was the correct treatment.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the Group, in the financial statements that makes it probable that the with operations in 111 countries and more than 3,000 economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person offices among more than 150 companies within the Group, would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both a significant portion of audit planning time is spent to in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating ensure the scope of our work is appropriate to address the results of our work.
the Groups identified risks of material misstatement.
In We determined materiality for the Group to be selecting the components that are in scope each year, we 62.2 million 2013: 52.5 million, which, as in 2013, refresh and update our understanding of the Group and its is below 5% of pre-tax profit, and below 1% of equity.
environment, including obtaining an understanding of the Materiality is higher than for the year ended 31 December Groups system of internal controls, and assessing the risks 2013 primarily as a result of higher pre-tax profit achieved of material misstatement at the Group level, in order to in 2014. check that the units selected provide an appropriate basis We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would on which to undertake audit work to address the identified report to the committee all audit differences in excess of risks of material misstatement.
Such audit work represents 0.5 million 2013: 0.5 million that affected the a combination of procedures, all of which are designed to consolidated income statement.
Where differences only target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement impacted the consolidated balance sheet, we reported on in the most effective manner possible.
Those entities subject differences over 1.0 million 2013: 1.0 million.
We also to audit provide for coverage of over 83% of the Groups reported differences below that threshold that, in our view, consolidated revenue 2013: 78% : achieved through a warranted reporting on qualitative grounds, together with combination of direct testing and specified audit procedures disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the including substantive analytical review procedures overall presentation of the financial statements.
performed by the Group auditor and or component auditors across the world.
Our audit work at the components is executed at levels of materiality appropriate for such components, which in all instances are lower than Group WPP 234 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Our 2014 financial statements Independent auditors report materiality.
In order to support our conclusion that there Matters on which we are required to report were no significant risks of material misstatement of the by exception aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit, we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures at the parent Adequacy of explanations received and entity level using our bespoke data analytics tool.
accounting records How we work closely with component auditors Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: The Group audit team plans its visits to component auditors we have not received all the information and based on a carefully designed program: one that is put explanations we require for our audit: or in place to check that appropriate oversight and guidance proper accounting records have not been kept by the is provided to the component auditors through a parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have combination of: not been received from branches not visited by us: or upfront team briefings to all component teams: the financial statements are not in agreement with the site visits: accounting records and returns.
central review of documentation: and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
risk assessment discussions and detailed workpaper reviews.
Directors remuneration These are designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits all key locations across the Group on a regular basis.
Under our engagement letter we are required to report if in In years when we do not visit a key location we will: our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration include the component audit partner in our team briefing: that would be required by the UK Companies Act 2006 discuss their risk assessment: and have not been made or the part of the Directors review documentation of the findings from their work.
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement We also hold quarterly meetings with management at with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing a regional and global level to ensure we update our to report arising from these matters.
understanding of the Group and its environment on an on-going basis.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the UK Listing Rules we are also required to review Opinion on other matters prescribed the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to by our engagement letter the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report In our opinion: arising from our review.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Our duty to read other information in the the Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Annual Report Company: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Directors report for the financial year for which the Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial statements are prepared is consistent with the information in the Annual Report is: financial statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 235 Our 2014 financial statements Independent auditors report In particular, we are required to consider whether we Scope of the audit of the financial statements have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give and understandable and whether the Annual Report reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud to the audit committee which we consider should have been or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the inconsistencies or misleading statements.
parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation information in the Annual Report to identify material of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit to identify any information that is apparently materially and express an opinion on the financial statements in incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the accordance with applicable law and International Standards knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International implications for our report.
Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP professional standards review team and independent London, United Kingdom partner reviews.
20 April 2015 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
