106 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of WS Atkins plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Companys cash flows for the year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Company financial statements the Financial Statements, which are prepared by WS Atkins plc, comprise: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2014 the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole to be 5.3m, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items because in our view this represents the Groups underlying performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 107 Independent Auditors Report to the members of WS Atkins plc continued Overview of the scope of our audit The Group reports its operating results and financial position in five segments, being United Kingdom and Europe, North America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Energy.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Accordingly, the Groups operating businesses subject to an audit of their complete financial information contributed 90% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level e. g. goodwill impairment testing, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the Financial Statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Its report on those matters that it considered to be significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements is set out in the Audit Committee Report page 78.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Timing and fraud in contract We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the revenue recognition completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
We focused on this area because the We attended a number of contract review meetings with senior management to Group has entered into a number of understand and challenge how it determined that forecasts were up to date and how large and complex long-term fixed poor performing contracts are identified and investigated.
Revenue and profit We tested, for a sample of contracts, managements monthly monitoring of the total recognition is determined based on the forecast revenue for the contract, costs expected to be incurred in its completion, directors estimate of how complete the profit recognised to date and the working capital position on the contract.
the contracts are and the costs that will need to be incurred by the Group We challenged senior managements judgements on the completeness of work for to complete them.
a sample of contracts by testing that contractual milestones had been reached and reading and considering the implications of correspondence with customers both Further, ISAs UK & Ireland presume acceptance of work done and relating to disputes.
that there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition because of the pressure We tested the forecast costs to complete the contracts by obtaining an understanding management may feel to achieve the from senior management as to how they had estimated these costs, challenging the planned results.
assumptions underpinning those estimates, evaluating the outturn of previous estimates and agreeing the actual costs incurred post-year end to the forecast costs for that period.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 108 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of WS Atkins plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they We focused on this area because the were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board-approved budgets, determination of whether or not an and testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged: impairment charge for goodwill was the directors key assumptions for profit margins and long-term growth rates in the necessary involved significant forecasts, by comparing them to historical results and economic and industry forecasts judgements about the future results of the discount rate, by assessing the cost of capital for the North America business and the North American business because comparable organisations.
this part of the business accounted for 166m of the total goodwill and has the closest headroom.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, which were the discount rate and the profit margins.
Having ascertained the extent of The directors booked no impairment change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for charge.
the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those Refer also to note 16 to the Financial key assumptions arising.
Risk of management override We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements of internal controls for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management ISAs UK & Ireland require that and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the Financial Statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud including, but not limited to, revenue recognition.
We also tested journal entries to determine the rationale for manual adjustments.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement page 65 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements are signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report pages 2 to 59 and the Directors Report pages 62 to 65 for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements the part of the Remuneration Report pages 81 to 105 to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Act the information given in the Corporate Governance Report pages 66 to 73 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Act we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 109 Independent Auditors Report to the members of WS Atkins plc continued Directors remuneration Under the Act we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Act, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Report pages 66 to 73 relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As required by Provision C. 1.1 of the Code, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy page 65.
As required by Provision C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the Financial Statements and how they were addressed page 78.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility pages 64 and 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Act and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Martin Hodgson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 11 June 2014 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 110 Financial Statements WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 111 Financial Statements Page no.
Consolidated Income Statement 112 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 114 Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows 116 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 117 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 118 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies 119 2 Financial risk management 129 3 Segmental information 135 4 Joint ventures 138 5 Operating profit analysis of costs by nature 139 6 Employee benefit costs 140 7 Net finance costs 141 8 Income tax expense 141 9 Net profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 143 10 Business combinations 145 11 Assets held for sale 146 12 Exceptional items 146 13 Dividends 147 14 Earnings per share EPS 147 15 P arent Company Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income 148 16 Goodwill 148 17 Other intangible assets 150 18 Property, plant and equipment 151 19 Investments in subsidiaries 152 20 Deferred income tax 152 21 Financial instruments 153 22 Available-for-sale financial assets 155 23 Derivative financial instruments 155 24 Other receivables 157 25 Inventories 157 26 Trade and other receivables 157 27 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 158 28 Cash and cash equivalents 158 29 Borrowings 159 30 Trade and other payables 160 31 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 161 32 Post-employment benefit liabilities 161 33 Other non-current liabilities 170 34 Ordinary shares 171 35 Share-based payments 171 36 Cash generated from continuing operations 174 37 Analysis of net funds 175 38 Contingent liabilities 175 39 Operating lease arrangements 175 40 Capital and other financial commitments 176 41 Related party transactions 176 42 Subsidiary undertakings 177 43 Joint ventures 178 44 Prior period amounts 178 Five-year Summary 179 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
