Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOURBEATTY PLC Opinion on financial statements Statements of Changes in Equity and the Our assessment of risks of Balfour Beatty plc related Notes 1 to 41.
The financial reporting of material misstatement In our opinion the financial statements: framework that has been applied in their The assessed risks of material preparation is applicable law and IFRSs misstatement described below are those give a true and fair view of the state as adopted by the European Union.
that had the greatest effect on our audit of the Groups and of the Parent strategy, the allocation of resources in Companys affairs as at 31 December Going concern the audit and directing the efforts of the 2014 and of the Groups loss and As required by the Listing Rules we have engagement team.
Parent Companys profit for the year reviewed the Directors statement on then ended: The description of risks above should be page 17 that the Group is a going concern.
have been properly prepared in read in conjunction with the significant We confirm that: accordance with International Financial issues considered by the Audit Committee we have concluded that the Directors Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted discussed on page 52. use of the going concern basis of by the European Union: and Our audit procedures relating to these accounting in the preparation of the have been prepared in accordance matters were designed in the context of financial statements is appropriate: and with the requirements of the Companies our audit of the financial statements as we have not identified any material Act 2006 and, as regards the Group a whole, and not to express an opinion uncertainties that may cast significant financial statements, Article 4 of the on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our doubt on the Groups ability to continue IAS Regulation.
opinion on the financial statements is not as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Group modified with respect to any of the risks However, because not all future events or and Parent Company Income Statements, described above, and we do not express conditions can be predicted, this statement Statements of Comprehensive Income, an opinion on these individual matters.
is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability Balance Sheets, Cash Flow Statements, to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recognition of contract revenue, margin Our work on the recognition of contract revenue, margin and related and related receivables and liabilities receivables and liabilities included: Notes 2.5, 2.6, 2.27a and 2.27f an assessment of the design and implementation of key controls over The construction industry is characterised by the recognition of contract revenue and margin and, for continuing contract risk with significant judgements involved operations subject to full scope audit procedures, tests to determine in the assessment of both current and future contract whether these controls were operating effectively throughout the year, financial performance.
regardless of whether these controls were ultimately relied upon: Revenue and margin are recognised based on the stage selecting a sample of contracts in order to challenge both current of completion of individual contracts, calculated on the and future financial performance.
Samples were selected based proportion of total costs at the reporting date compared on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, as well as other to the estimated total costs of the contract.
randomly selected contracts: The status of contracts is updated on a regular basis.
for sampled contracts, challenging managements key judgements In doing so, management are required to exercise inherent in the forecast costs to complete that drive the accounting significant judgement in their assessment of the valuation under the percentage of completion method, including the of contract variations, claims and liquidated damages following procedures: revenue items : the completeness and accuracy of a review of the contract terms and conditions through review forecast costs to complete: and the ability to deliver of contract documentation: contracts within forecast timescales.
testing the existence and valuation of claims and variations The potential final contract outcomes can cover a wide both within contract revenue and contract costs via inspection range.
Dependent on the level of judgement in each, of correspondence with customers and the supply chain: the range on each contract can be individually material.
a review of legal and experts reports received on In addition, changes in these judgements, and the related contentious matters: estimates, as contracts progress can result in material an assessment of the forecasts through discussion with Group, adjustments to revenue and margin, which can be both finance, commercial and operational management: positive and negative.
an assessment of the ability to deliver contracts within budgeted timescales and any exposures to liquidated damages for late delivery of contract works: and a review of post-balance sheet contract performance to support year end judgements: an assessment of the recoverability of related receivables, including testing of post year end cash receipts, and completeness of any contract loss provisions through completion of the above procedures.
com AR2014 82 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOURBEATTY PLC CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Trading performance within Construction Services In response to the significant losses incurred by Construction Services UK new risk in 2014 UK during the year, we have made the following amendments to our Notes 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 2.27a, 2.27f and 10 audit approach: The contract risks described above apply across the Group we have reduced the component materiality used to scope our including Construction Services UK, however, given the audit of the Construction Services UK operations to 3.4 million incidence of losses incurred by the Construction Services 2013: 7.5 million.
This, in combination with our not placing reliance UK business, most notably within Engineering Services, on internal controls in certain parts of the Construction Services there is a greater risk of misstatement associated with UK business, led to an increase in the number of contracts tested contract judgements in this division, particularly in respect substantively by us and a greater level of substantive audit of under-performing contracts.
procedures performed on the forecast costs to complete: Management have also disclosed 88m of losses incurred we have considered the findings from the third-party review on certain external contracts within Engineering Services of contract commercial positions and assessed these against within the London and the South West regions as managements assessment of current contract positions and non-underlying items.
This has a number of presentational our own contract audit procedures: and impacts, both on the face of the Group Income Statement we have concluded on the appropriateness of disclosing certain and in disclosure of underlying performance metrics external contracts in Engineering Services as non-underlying items elsewhere in the Annual Report by assessing the exceptional level of the losses incurred on these and financial statements.
contracts, both in absolute and percentage terms and consideration Management provide commentary of these issues within of supportive fact patterns such as the Group now withdrawing the Strategic Report, both in the Construction Services from tendering for external work in the relevant geographies.
section on pages 18 to 20 which includes detailed discussion of the performance in Construction Services UK and within the Risk Management Framework section on page 30 on managements conclusions and response to failings in controls within the business during 2014.
Assessment of whether losses incurred in 2014 We have assessed the design and implementation of the controls should have been recognised in prior periods over the preparation and review of the contract templates created by new risk in 2014 management to facilitate the prior period assessment.
We also assessed Page 14 the objectivity of management personnel involved in the contract assessment process, and whether there was appropriate review Given the 317 million of losses incurred in Construction by individuals not involved in making original contract judgements.
Services UK in 2014 including the 88 million disclosed as non-underlying, management have undertaken a We reviewed and tested the individual contract templates prepared detailed assessment to determine whether any of the by management for the 45 trading update contracts and challenged the losses should have been recognised in prior periods.
conclusions reached by management with respect to the quantum of any losses which should reasonably have been recognised in prior periods.
This exercise was inherently judgemental as it required the reassessment of contract positions as at the prior period In addition to reviewing managements own analysis, we also balance sheet date using information which was available considered the following sources of information as part of our audit: or should reasonably have been available at that point in historical Construction Services UK and Group contract and time without using the benefit of hindsight and in commercial issues papers: accordance with the requirements of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
findings included in contract specific internal audit reports: In performing this exercise, management concluded that observations and findings from site visits performed and other each of the 45 contracts which contributed to the trading discussions held with management during 2014: updates issued during 2014 should be reviewed in detail.
the findings arising from the external review of contract commercial Management concluded from this exercise that the positions performed in 2014: impact of any errors relating to prior periods was not subsequent events reviews performed at each balance sheet date: and material in the context of the Group accounts and accordingly the 2013 financial statements have not prior period audit and interim review working papers.
However, approximately 16m of losses recorded in the second half of 2014 should have been recognised as at 27 June 2014 which is considered material to the June 2014 Interim Results, which will be restated accordingly in the June 2015 Interim Results.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 83 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets We tested the design and implementation of managements key controls Notes 2.13, 2.27d, 15 and 16 around testing the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill balances.
As part of this process, we obtained copies of the valuation models used Under accounting standards, management is required to to determine the recoverable amount of each cash generating unit and carry out an annual impairment test which incorporates tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models.
judgements based on assumptions about future profitability for the related businesses against which We challenged the assumptions underpinning the models, including appropriate long-term growth rates and discount rates the discount rates used, long-term growth rates and cash flow forecasts.
This was achieved through: consultation with Deloitte valuation specialists to critically assess the discount rate and long-term growth rates applied: This exercise is highly judgemental and is used to support assessment of the reasonableness of forecast future cash flows by the carrying value of 826 million of goodwill as at comparison to historical performance and future outlook: and discussions 31 December 2014.
Given the trading performance of with management.
the Group in the current year, and in particular variances between actual and budgeted profit and cash flows, We performed further sensitivities taking into account the historical the level of risk associated with goodwill impairment forecasting accuracy of the Group recognising its recent performance is greater in 2014. in this area and after considering the magnitude of the losses in 2014.
We have considered the adequacy of managements disclosures in respect of reasonable possible changes to assumptions as set out in Note 15.
With respect to Construction Services UK we highlight that the recoverability of the goodwill within that cash generating unit is predicated on returning the business to more normal levels of performance in the future.
We also assessed whether assumptions have been determined and applied consistently across the Group.
Assets held for sale, discontinued operations We tested the design and implementation of controls management and disposal accounting have in place around planned and completed disposal activities.
Notes 2.27i, 10, 12, 15 and 32 Disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff In relation to disposed operations, management We tested the calculation of the gain on disposal by challenging the applies judgement in determining the gains or losses judgements made in relation to the consideration receivable and on disposal of the various businesses.
In 2014, the the net assets disposed.
234 million gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff The initial consideration receivable was agreed to the sale agreement and PB was a significant contributor to the overall cash receipts.
Purchase price adjustments to reflect managements best Group result.
estimates of the final working capital position of PB, which will lead to The classification and valuation of 13 million of net the final disposal consideration to be received, have been tested by assets in Rail Italy and certain parts of Rail Germany comparison to supporting documentation and post-transaction as held for sale is a key area of management judgement.
In addition, the classification of businesses as To test the net assets disposed, we performed a full scope audit of discontinued operations must be carefully considered the PB disposal group as at 31 October 2014, the date of disposal.
in line with the relevant accounting standard.
In addition, detailed testing was performed on related disposal Given the change in approach during the second half provisions, indemnities and the costs of disposal by reviewing and of 2014 to selling the separate businesses within considering the sales agreements, supporting documentation and other Rail Germany on a piecemeal basis and not via a single evidence from the 31 October 2014 audit and subsequent events period.
transaction as had previously been assumed, the assets Classification of assets held for sale and discontinued operations and liabilities not subject to existing sales agreements We challenged managements judgement on assets held for sale through have been reclassified out of held for sale with understanding the status of the sales process and reviewing sales the results of the entire cash generating unit now agreements and additional correspondence from prospective purchasers.
re-presented as non-underlying items within continuing operations.
We assessed the classification of assets held for sale and discontinued operations against the relevant highly probable criteria in the accounting standard, including consideration of why Rail Germany no longer meets these criteria and the appropriateness and related disclosure of this business as part of non-underlying within continuing operations.
This also included testing the re-presentation of the prior period results from discontinued operations.
com AR2014 84 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOURBEATTY PLC CONTINUED Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit Opinion on other matters prescribed We define materiality as the magnitude of Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining by the Companies Act 2006 misstatement in the financial statements an understanding of the Group and its In our opinion: that makes it probable that the economic environment, including Group-wide the part of the Directors Remuneration decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable controls, and assessing the risks of Report to be audited has been properly person would be changed or influenced.
material misstatement at the Group level.
prepared in accordance with the We use materiality both in planning the Based on that assessment, we focused Companies Act 2006: and scope of our audit work and in evaluating our Group audit scope primarily on the the information given in the Strategic the results of our work.
audit work at the most significant Report and the Directors Report for the operating companies, including joint We determined materiality for the financial year for which the financial ventures.
Either full or specified audit Group to be 8.5 million, which is statements are prepared is consistent procedures, where the extent of our approximately 6% of the average with the financial statements.
testing was based on our assessment underlying profit before tax for the last of the risks of material misstatement and Matters on which we are required three years, including 2014.
We use of the materiality of the Groups operations toreport by exception underlying profit before tax to exclude the at those locations, were performed.
Adequacy of explanations received effect of volatility for example, separately and accounting records disclosed non-underlying items from our Operating companies representing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are determination and because it represents principal business units within the Groups required to report to you if, in our opinion: a key performance measure for the reportable segments and accounting for Group and receives significant focus 85% 2013: 80% of the Groups total we have not received all the information from shareholders and analysts.
This is revenue, including discontinued and explanations we require for our a change of approach from 2013, where operations, are subject to full audit audit: or we used a Group materiality of 15 million, procedures, with others accounting for adequate accounting records have not which was approximately 8% of the 7% 2013: 7% of the Groups revenue been kept by the Parent Company, or Groups 2013 underlying profit before tax.
subject to specified audit procedures.
returns adequate for our audit have not We have changed to using a three-year They were also selected to provide an been received from branches not visited average of underlying profit before tax due appropriate basis for undertaking audit by us: or to the extent of the reduction in underlying work to address the risks of material the Parent Company financial profit in the current year which, in our misstatement identified above.
Our audit statements are not in agreement with view, provides an unusual level of volatility work at these locations was executed the accounting records and returns.
and would result in an inappropriately at levels of materiality applicable to each We have nothing to report in respect low level of materiality for a Group of this individual entity, which were lower than of these matters.
Use of alternative benchmarks, Group materiality and ranged from 3.4 such as assets or net revenue, would have million to 5.1 million 2013: 7.5 million Directors remuneration resulted in higher and more consistent to 9.0 million.
Parsons Brinckerhoff Under the Companies Act 2006 we materiality levels compared with prior was audited to 8.0m materiality.
are also required to report if in our years.
Materiality as a percentage of opinion certain disclosures of Directors At the parent entity level we also tested net assets in the current year is 0.7% remuneration have not been made or the consolidation process and carried 2013: 1.4%.
the part of the Directors Remuneration out analytical procedures to confirm our Report to be audited is not in agreement We agreed with the Audit Committee conclusion that there were no significant with the accounting records and returns.
that we would report to the Committee risks of material misstatement of the We have nothing to report arising from all audit differences in excess of 170,000 aggregated financial information of the these matters.
2013: 300,000, as well as differences remaining components not subject to audit below that threshold that, in our view, or audit of specified account balances.
Corporate Governance Statement warranted reporting on qualitative Under the Listing Rules we are also The Group audit team follow a programme grounds.
We also report to the Audit required to review the part of the Corporate of planned visits to the significant operating Committee on disclosure matters that Governance Statement relating to the companies.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or we identified when assessing the overall Companys compliance with 10 provisions another senior member of the Group audit presentation of the financial statements.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
team visited operating companies covering We have nothing to report arising from 72% 2013: 77% of Group revenue in our review.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team also discussed the risk assessment, reviewed documentation of key findings and participated in the close meetings for all operating companies subject to full scope.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 85 Our duty to read other information This report is made solely to the in the Annual Report Companys members, as a body, in Under International Standards on Auditing accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 UK and Ireland, we are required to report of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit to you if, in our opinion, information in the work has been undertaken so that we Annual Report is: might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state materially inconsistent with the to them in an auditors report and for information in the audited financial no other purpose.
To the fullest extent statements: or permitted by law, we do not accept or apparently materially incorrect based assume responsibility to anyone other on, or materially inconsistent with, than the Company and the Companys our knowledge of the Group acquired members as a body, for our audit work, in the course of performing our audit: or for this report, or for the opinions we otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider Scope of the audit of the financial whether we have identified any statements inconsistencies between our knowledge An audit involves obtaining evidence acquired during the audit and the about the amounts and disclosures Directors statement that they consider in the financial statements sufficient the Annual Report is fair, balanced and to give reasonable assurance that understandable and whether the Annual the financial statements are free from Report appropriately discloses those material misstatement, whether caused matters that we communicated to the by fraud or error.
This includes an Audit Committee which we consider assessment of: whether the accounting should have been disclosed.
We confirm policies are appropriate to the Groups that we have not identified any such and the Parent Companys circumstances inconsistencies or misleading statements.
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Respective responsibilities of of significant accounting estimates Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors made by the Directors: and the overall Responsibilities Statement, the Directors presentation of the financial statements.
are responsible for the preparation of the In addition, we read all the financial and financial statements and for being satisfied non-financial information in the Annual that they give a true and fair view.
Our Report to identify material inconsistencies responsibility is to audit and express an with the audited financial statements opinion on the financial statements in and to identify any information that is accordance with applicable law and apparently materially incorrect based International Standards on Auditing on, or materially inconsistent with, the UK and Ireland.
Those standards require knowledge acquired by us in the course us to comply with the Auditing Practices of performing the audit.
If we become Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
aware of any apparent material We also comply with International Standard misstatements or inconsistencies we on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our consider the implications for our report.
audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review John Adam team and independent partner reviews.
Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 24 March 2015 balfourbeatty.
