Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CLS HOLDINGS PLC Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: of CLS Holdings plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the related notes to the group financial statements 1 to 35, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 38 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
55 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CLS HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of material misstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying We assessed managements process for reviewing the valuations of the property portfolio.
value of the investment We met with the external valuers of the property portfolio to discuss, understand and property portfolio, specifically challenge the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions the process, assumptions and and critical judgement areas, including occupancy rates, yields and development milestones.
judgements used to derive the For the judgements made around the valuation of development properties we paid particular property valuations.
attention to the costs of construction and contingencies.
Investment properties are held As part of our meeting with the external valuers we assessed their competence, independence at 1,310m at 31 December 2014 and integrity with an additional focus on assessing the process for the appointment in the year making this the most of DTZ as UK valuers.
quantitatively material balance in the financial statements.
We obtained relevant industry data, which was used to benchmark the portfolio performance and key assumptions used to assess whether the external evidence supported the assumptions Investment properties are held used by the valuers.
at market value on the balance sheet.
Market value is by its Finally, we performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information provided to the nature subjective with significant valuer relating to rental income ensuring that it was consistent with the lease.
judgement applied to the Our work on the valuation of the investment property portfolio was led by the Group audit team, valuation, especially in regard supplemented by specific procedures by component auditors.
to properties currently under development.
The key judgements made are surrounding occupancy rates, yields and the assessment of development and completion milestones.
Accounting for the Groups We assessed the impact of transactions in the year on the classification of investments in unlisted equity investments, the financial statements and audited the valuation and the associated gain arising from focusing on the impact of those transactions.
changes in shareholdings on We tested the acquisitions and disposals of the other financial investments by confirming classification and accounting, the details to transaction agreements.
In particular, we tested and challenged the First and on the risk of impairment.
Camp and Cood transactions and the accuracy of the minority interest disclosures.
Equity investments are held at All remaining investments were evaluated for impairment by comparing the market value 36.5m at 31 December 2014 to carrying value and challenging managements assumptions behind the fair value of the in the financial statements, investments to assess whether there were are any signs of impairment.
We noted that the consisting of 1.5m investments investment in BLD was fully impaired at the year end.
in associates and 35m of other equity investments.
Our work on investments was carried out by the Group audit team with the exception of acquisitions of other financial investments and the Cood and First Camp transaction, where In the year the Group acquired a we worked with our component auditors in Sweden.
controlling interest in First Camp Sverige Holding AB First Camp, a newly-formed company which acquired certain assets from Cood Investments AB Cood, and subsequently disposed of its investment in Cood.
The Groups investment in BLD continued to be loss-making and was thus subject to increased impairment risk.
56 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year, accounting for property acquisitions.
This is not included in the current year as there have been no significant acquisitions during the year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee as set out on pages 53 and 54 and the critical accounting judgements as presented in note 3 of these financial statements.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 13.5 million 2013: 8.9 million, which is below 2% 2013: below 2% of net assets.
The increase in materiality from the prior year reflects the increase in net assets driven by the uplift in the valuation of the investment property portfolio, in particular London where growth was c. 192 million.
In addition to net assets, we considered EPRA adjusted profit before tax to be a critical performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower materiality of 2.1 million 2013: 1.4 million which is less than 5% 2013: less than 5% of adjusted income before tax for testing of balances impacting that measure, being most balance sheet and income statement balances with the exception primarily of fair value movements on investment property and complex financial instruments.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 269,000 2013: 177,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, our audit including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at each key location, being the UK, France, Germany and Sweden.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 96.7% 2013: 95.4% of the Groups net assets, and 100% 2013: 97.9% of revenue and of profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking a full audit to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
At the Group level we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The UK business was subject to a full scope audit carried out by the Group audit team, with full scope audits on the remaining locations being undertaken by component auditors from within the Deloitte network, including Sweden where Deloitte were appointed auditors following a tender process.
The audit work for each component location was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 7,903,500 to 4,215,200 with lower materialities being used for those items impacting EPRA adjusted profit before tax, consistent with the Group audit approach.
The majority of audit work on the key audit risks was performed by the Group audit team, including those risks specifically referred to in this report.
The reporting from all component auditors has been reviewed by the Group team and, where necessary, component auditors carried out further testing at our request.
All component audit partners are included in our team briefing where their risk assessment is discussed and, where it was considered necessary, a senior member of the Group audit team visited the component locations to meet the component audit team and address any issues that arose.
57 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CLS HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Opinion on other matters prescribed In our opinion: by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to in the Annual Report you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
58 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible directors and auditor for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Beddy FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 4 March 2015 59
