OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Independent auditors report To the members of Countrywide plc Report on the group Our audit approach The scope of our audit and our areas financialstatements Overview of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with Our opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and In our opinion, Countrywide plcs group Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
financial statements the financial statements : We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material Materiality give a true and fair view of the state of the misstatement in the financial statements.
Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 Inparticular, we looked at where the directors and of its profit and cash flows for the year made subjective judgements, for example then ended: inrespect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and have been properly prepared in accordance Audit scope considering future events that are inherently with International Financial Reporting uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also Standards IFRSs as adopted by the addressed the risk of management override European Union: and of internal controls, including evaluating whether have been prepared in accordance with there is evidence of bias by the directors that the requirements of the Companies Act may represent a risk of material misstatement Areas of 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
focus What we have audited The risks of material misstatement that had Countrywide plcs financial statements the greatest effect on our audit, including the comprise: allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
the consolidated balance sheet as at Overall Group materiality: 4.0 million We have also set out how we tailored our 31December 2014: 2013: 2.9 million which represents 5% audit to address these specific areas in order of profit before tax and exceptional items.
to provide an opinion on the financial the consolidated income statement and statements as a whole, and any comments consolidated statement of comprehensive We performed audit work over the complete we make on the outcome of our procedures income for the year then ended: financial information of reporting units should be read in this context.
This is not a which accounted for 97% 2013: 96% of the consolidated cash flow statement for complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
the Groups revenues and 93% 2013: 95% the year then ended: of the Groups profit before tax.
the consolidated statement of changes Professional indemnity provisions and inequity for the year then ended: and associated legal costs, largely in relation to the notes to the financial statements, which mortgage valuation claims arising from the include a summary of significant accounting buoyant property market in 2004-2007. policies and other explanatory information.
Impairment assessment of goodwill across Certain required disclosures have been the group and other intangible assets with presented elsewhere in the Countrywide indefinite lives, principally brands.
Annual Report the Annual Report, rather Accounting for acquisitions, particularly than in the notes to the financial statements.
the identification of intangible assets These are cross-referenced from the financial relating to businesses acquired.
statements and are identified as audited.
Accounting for transactions with Zoopla The financial reporting framework that has plc following its IPO.
been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Countrywide plc Report on the Group financialstatements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Judgements and estimates in relation to professional indemnity provisions and related litigation costs Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 86 Critical We checked that the amounts in the Bordereaux report were appropriately reflected accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 103 to 104 notes.
in the books and records, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the report and the input data.
With respect to the input data, we agreed a sample of claims received Professional indemnity PI provisions principally relate to the Surveyors and provisions made to the advice from lawyers and correspondence with claimants.
and Lambert Smith Hampton Divisions.
We discussed specific large claims with the Groups internal legal counsel, obtained In common with other valuers, the Group is subject to claims in relation to letters from external counsel and confirmed that they supported managements incorrect mortgage valuation reports primarily carried out between 2004 approach and provision in the accounts.
For large claims, we also compared a and 2007 this population has been defined by the Group as exceptional sample of historical provisions to the actual amounts settled, determining that forclassification purposes.
The Group holds professional indemnity insurance managements estimation techniques were robust.
for such matters, but management uses judgement to estimate the net costs that will be incurred by the Group, including related litigation costs.
All the Management increased the provision above that suggested in the Bordereaux claims received are listed and analysed through the Bordereaux report.
report to reflect the latest observed trends in claims received and settled, the number of claims with losses, and the average loss on each claim.
We were able The provisions are for both claims already received and claims yet to be toconfirm that the latest data supported the changes to the amounts provided.
The second category includes significant management judgement given the need to estimate the incidence and amount of future claims.
For claims not yet received but incurred, we audited the model and approach usedby the management by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying The provisions held are based on experience in settling past claims, discussions calculations and satisfying ourselves that the input data used also reflected the with the Groups insurers and advice from legal counsel.
Although each latest trends in claims with losses and average loss incurred.
claim ultimately needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis a number of factors are relevant to many of the claims, so it is possible to use past We audited the classification of expense disclosed as normal and exceptional.
experience to make judgements about ongoing claims and claims to come.
Weensured that amounts classified as normal are consistent with the trend andamounts classified as exceptional relate to the population defined as such.
As ever with a provision of this nature there are significant assumptions made and the outcome is sensitive to some of the key assumptions.
However, we believe that management has followed due process in assessing the provision and has taken into account the latest trends and on that basis the provision is within a reasonable range based on the information available at this time.
Impairment assessment of indefinite life intangible assets We evaluated and challenged managements cash flow forecasts, and the process Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 87 Critical by which they were drawn up, comparing them to the latest Board-approved budget accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 95 to 96 notes.
for consistency and testing the underlying calculations successfully.
We also considered We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance 418 million that the right CGUs were identified based on our knowledge of the business.
across the Group and the value of the other intangible assets 185 million With respect to the key cash flows and assumptions in the forecasts, we compared which are assumed to have indefinite useful life, principally brands.
the current year results with the FY14 figures included in the prior year forecast Although, based on historical performance, management believe there is toconsider whether any assumptions had, in hindsight, been optimistic.
Actual significant headroom between the recoverable value of the Groups Cash performance of the divisions was better than budgeted.
Generating Units CGUs and their carrying value, this remained an area We also challenged the directors key assumptions for discount rates, growth offocus for us because the assessment of the recoverable value of the ratesand profit margins by comparing them to historical results.
Discount rates CGUs involves judgements about the future results of the business and arein line with industry comparators that we considered and the forecasts included theappropriate discount rates to apply to the future cash flows.
a lower rate of growth than the Group has achieved over the last two years.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts.
Our tests included applying: a discount rate increased by 20%: zero growth in 2015 and onwards: and additional professional indemnity expenditure above that budgeted in each year of the forecasts.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement arising and concluded that managements approach was reasonable and supported by the available evidence.
74 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Report on the Group financialstatements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition accounting Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 87 We obtained all material acquisition agreements and read them to ensure that we Criticalaccounting estimates and judgements and page 111 notes.
understood the substance of the transaction, including the consideration and the assets and liabilities acquired.
During the year the group continued to make a number of acquisitions with a total consideration of 48.9 million.
As a result of these acquisitions We tested cash consideration to bank statements and checked that any deferred principally the following intangible assets were recognised: customer consideration had been correctly recognised in line with the acquisition contracts and relationships 7.9 million: brands 2.7 million: pipeline agreements, with no issues being identified.
in the estate agency business 0.5 million: and goodwill of 38.7 million.
We tested the accuracy and completeness of models used for calculating the separately Accounting for business combinations can be complex, particularly identified intangible assets by comparing them to models used on prior acquisitions inrelation to the identification of intangible assets and accounting within the Group and to those typically used in the industry in our experience.
The accounting treatment of intangible Wechallenged management in particular on the recognition of brands, customer assets, including their ongoing impact on the income statement, relationships and contracts and were able to corroborate these to customer lists variesdepending on whether they are seen as having finite or and the Groups continued use of the relevant brands post acquisition.
indefiniteuseful economic lives, and the estimated life applied We agreed the current assets and liabilities acquired, which consisted mainly tothosewith finite lives.
ofworking capital, by agreeing them to completion statements or other similar We focused on the judgements management made in these respects, supporting documentation and confirming that they had been treated in line particularly in relation to identification of intangible assets.
withthe terms of the contract.
Accounting treatment of transactions in relation toinvestments in Zoopla plc Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 87 In order to understand the substance as well as the legal form of the transactions Criticalaccounting estimates and judgements and page 99 notes.
with Zoopla, we held discussions with management and read the legal agreements entered into by the Group with Zoopla.
We ensured the accounting reflected these At the beginning of the year, the Group held equity shares in Zoopla Limited contracts and was in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Zoopla valued at 12.2 million which were primarily granted under an agreement allowing Zoopla to list the Groups properties on the Zoopla We also agreed the consideration paid to purchase additional shares to bank website.
In March 2014 the agreement, which was due to expire in 2015, statements, validated the profits recognised on the sale of shares and checked was renewed resulting in further entitlement to new warrants given to the thesales proceeds to bank statements.
Group at negligible cost if specific events occurred.
We agreed that the period end fair value reflected the quoted market price asat31December 2014.
Such an event occurred in June 2014 when Zoopla listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As a result of this, the Group received further shares in Zoopla on conversion of warrants pursuant to the new agreement.
Further, the following transactions took place during the year on Zooplas listing: the Group had its existing shares sub-divided because of changes in Zooplas capital structure: and the Group purchased and subsequently sold shares in the Zoopla IPO.
We focused on this area because the number of material transactions during the year made the accounting complex and liable to error.
How we tailored the audit scope information of all the reporting units and in Overall group materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure some we focused on the larger reporting units 4.0 million 2013: 2.9 million.
that we performed enough work to be able to give us appropriate coverage.
We performed How we determined it to give an opinion on the financial statements audit work over the complete financial 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional as a whole, taking into account the geographic information of reporting units which accounted items primarily relating to income in relation to structure of the Group, the accounting for 97% 2013: 96% of the Groups revenues Zoopla shares of 17 million and professional processes and controls, and the industry and 93% 2013: 95% of the Groups profit indemnity charges of 15 million.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group operates in seven complementary Materiality We applied this benchmark because it divisions as set out in the Annual Report refer The scope of our audit is influenced by eliminates any disproportionate effect of the to page 88.
Each of the divisions is broken ourapplication of materiality.
We set certain exceptional items and provides a consistent down into a number of reporting units which quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, year-on-year basis for our work.
are consolidated into the Group financial together with qualitative considerations, helped statements along with the centralised functions.
us to determine the scope of our audit and We agreed with the Audit Committee that the nature, timing and extent of our audit wewould report to them misstatements Reporting units from the seven divisions were procedures and to evaluate the effect of identified during our audit above 0.2 million included in the scope of our work and the misstatements, both individually and on 2013:0.1 million as well as misstatements group audit team performed an audit of their thefinancial statements as a whole.
below that amount that, in our view, warranted financial information at each of their locations.
The engagement partner attended all clearance Based on our professional judgement, meetings either in person or by call.
In some wedetermined materiality for the financial of the divisions we audited complete financial statements as a whole as follows: ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Countrywide plc Report on the Group Adequacy of information We primarily focus our work in these areas financialstatements continued andexplanations received by assessing the directors judgements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are against available evidence, forming our own Our audit approach continued required to report to you if, in our opinion judgements, and evaluating the disclosures Going concern wehave not received all the information in the financial statements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to andexplanations we require for our audit.
review the directors statement, set out on We test and examine information, using We have no exceptions to report arising page 70, in relation to going concern.
We have sampling and other auditing techniques, fromthis responsibility.
nothing to report having performed our review.
tothe extent we consider necessary to Directors remuneration provide a reasonable basis for us to draw As noted in the directors statement, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through directors have concluded that it is appropriate required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive to prepare the financial statements using the disclosures of directors remuneration specified procedures or a combination of both.
going concern basis of accounting.
The going by law are not made.
We have no exceptions concern basis presumes that the Group has In addition, we read all the financial and to report arising from this responsibility.
adequate resources to remain in operation, non-financial information in the Annual Report and that the directors intend it to do so, for Corporate governance statement to identify material inconsistencies with the at least one year from the date the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to audited financial statements and to identify statements were signed.
As part of our audit review the part of the Corporate Governance any information that is apparently materially we have concluded that the directors use of Statement relating to the Groups compliance incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent the going concern basis is appropriate.
with ten provisions of the UK Corporate with, the knowledge acquired by us in the Governance Code.
We have nothing to report course of performing the audit.
If we become However, because not all future events or having performed our review.
aware of any apparent material misstatements conditions can be predicted, these statements or inconsistencies we consider the implications are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability Responsibilities for the financial for our report.
to continue as a going concern.
statements and the audit Other matter Our responsibilities and those Other required reporting ofthedirectors We have reported separately on the company Consistency of other information As explained more fully in the Directors financial statements of Countrywide plc for Companies Act 2006 opinion Responsibilities Statement, the directors are the year ended 31December 2014 and on In our opinion, the information given in the responsible for the preparation of the financial the information in the Directors Remuneration Strategic Report and the Directors Report statements and for being satisfied that they Report that is described as being audited.
forthe financial year for which the financial give a true and fair view.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express anopinion on the financial statements in ISAs UK & Ireland reporting accordance with applicable law and ISAs Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required Darryl Phillips UK& Ireland.
Those standards require toreport to you if, in our opinion: Senior Statutory Auditor ustocomply with the Auditing Practices for and on behalf of information in the Annual Report is: Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
 LLP materially inconsistent with the This report, including the opinions, has been Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors information in the audited financial prepared for and only for the companys London statements: or members as a body in accordance with 26 February 2015 Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act apparently materially incorrect based 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, on, or materially inconsistent with, our in giving these opinions, accept or assume knowledge of the Group acquired in responsibility for any other purpose or to any the course of performing our audit: or other person to whom this report is shown or otherwise misleading: into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the statement given by the directors on page 71, in accordance with provision What an audit of financial C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code statementsinvolves the Code, that they consider the Annual An audit involves obtaining evidence about Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced the amounts and disclosures in the financial and understandable and provides the statements sufficient to give reasonable information necessary for members to assess assurance that the financial statements are the Groups performance, business model free from material misstatement, whether and strategy is materially inconsistent with caused by fraud or error.
This includes an our knowledge of the Group acquired in assessment of: the course of performing our audit: and whether the accounting policies are the section of the Annual Report on page 48 appropriate to the Groups circumstances as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, and have been consistently applied and describing the work of the Audit Committee adequately disclosed: does not appropriately address matters the reasonableness of significant communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
accounting estimates made by the We have no exceptions to report arising from directors: and these responsibilities.
the overall presentation of the financialstatements.
