FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report To the members of Countrywide plc Report on the parent company In addition, we read all the financial and Other information in the Annual Report financial statements non-financial information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to to identify material inconsistencies with the report to you if, in our opinion, information in Our opinion audited financial statements and to identify the Annual Report is: In our opinion the financial statements, any information that is apparently materially defined below: materially inconsistent with the information incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent in the audited financial statements: or give a true and fair view of the state with, the knowledge acquired by us in the oftheparent companys affairs as course of performing the audit.
If we become apparently materially incorrect based on, at31December 2014: aware of any apparent material misstatements or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge or inconsistencies we consider the implications of the company acquired in the course of have been properly prepared in accordance for our report.
performing our audit: or with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and is otherwise misleading.
Opinions on other matters prescribed have been prepared in accordance with the by the Companies Act 2006 We have no exceptions to report arising from requirements of the Companies Act 2006. this responsibility.
In our opinion: This opinion is to be read in the context of the information given in the Strategic Report Responsibilities for the financial what we say in the remainder of this report.
and the Directors Report for the financial statements and the audit year for which the financial statements are What we have audited Our responsibilities and prepared is consistent with the financial The parent company financial statements thoseofthedirectors statements: and the financial statements, which are As explained more fully in the directors prepared by Countrywide plc, comprise: the part of the Directors Remuneration responsibilities statement set out on page 71, Report to be audited has been properly the directors are responsible for the preparation the company Balance Sheet as at prepared in accordance with the of the financial statements and for being 31December 2014: and Companies Act 2006. satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the notes to the financial statements, which Our responsibility is to audit and express include a summary of significant accounting Other matters on which we are anopinion on the financial statements in policies and other explanatory information.
required to report by exception accordance with applicable law and ISAs The financial reporting framework that has been Adequacy of accounting records and UK& Ireland.
Those standards require us applied in their preparation is applicable law information and explanations received tocomply with the Auditing Practices Boards and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Ethical Standards for Auditors.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report, including the opinions, has been Accounting Practice.
we have not received all the information and prepared for and only for the companys Certain disclosures required by the financial explanations we require for our audit: or members as a body in accordance with reporting framework have been presented Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act adequate accounting records have not elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, been kept by the parent company, or in the notes to the financial statements.
in giving these opinions, accept or assume returns adequate for our audit have not These are cross-referenced from the financial responsibility for any other purpose or to been received from branches not visited statements and are identified as audited.
anyother person to whom this report is by us: or shown or into whose hands it may come What an audit of financial the financial statements and the part save where expressly agreed by our prior statementsinvolves oftheDirectors Remuneration Report consent in writing.
We conducted our audit in accordance with tobeaudited are not in agreement with International Standards on Auditing UK and theaccounting records and returns.
Other matter Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts We have no exceptions to report arising from We have reported separately on the group anddisclosures in the financial statements this responsibility.
financial statements of Countrywide plc for sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the year ended 31 December 2014.
Directors remuneration the financial statements are free from material Under the Companies Act 2006 we misstatement, whether caused by fraud or arerequired to report to you if, in our error.
This includes an assessment of: opinion, certain disclosures of directors whether the accounting policies are remuneration specified by law are not Darryl Phillips appropriate to the parent companys madeWe have no exceptions to report Senior Statutory Auditor circumstances and have been consistently arising from this responsibility.
for and on behalf of applied and adequately disclosed:  LLP the reasonableness of significant accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory estimates made by the directors: and Auditors London the overall presentation of the 26 February 2015 financialstatements.
