163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 23 07 2014 13:55 Page 30 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daejan Holdings PLC Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Daejan Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 34 to 64.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Valuation of investment properties 1,546.7 million Refer to page 10 Strategic report, page 25 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 42 Significant accounting policies and page 47 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The risk The valuation of investment properties is one of the key areas of judgement in preparing the financial statements.
Valuation of investment properties is considered a significant audit risk due to the magnitude 93% of total assets and subjective nature of property valuations which depends on the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future net rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others, meeting with the Groups external valuers to understand the assumptions and methodologies used in valuing the investment properties and the market evidence used by the external valuers to support these assumptions.
We used our own chartered surveyor to assist us in evaluating the assumptions, methodologies, competency, and independence of the external valuers.
In addition, for a sample of properties we assessed whether the valuations were performed in accordance with RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
We challenged the external valuers assumptions by comparing yields on a sample of properties to benchmark indices and evaluated the extent to which the movements in valuations were consistent with our industry knowledge and market comparable transactions.
In addition we agreed key inputs used in the valuation model, such as rental income, occupancy and current tenancy contracts, to the Groups property management system and lease contracts.
We also critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures including the accuracy of the fair value measurement categorisation and adequacy of the disclosure of the valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs see note 9.
Page 30 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 23 07 2014 13:55 Page 31 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Current tax liability 30.4 million Refer to page 25 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 42 Significant accounting policies and page 46 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The risk Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is one of the key audit risks due to the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities and complexity of tax legislation.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, the use of our own local tax specialists to assist us in assessing the Groups tax positions and its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions by reference to relevant accounting standards.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 15.2m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets of which it represents 0.9%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Board to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.7m, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by the group audit team in the UK covering 47 components and by a component auditor in one UK component and one component in the USA.
These audits covered 100% of total group revenue: 100% of group profit before taxation: and 100% of total group assets.
The segment disclosures in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements set out the individual significance of a specific country.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels ranged from 2,000 to 2.5 million.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team visited the UK and USA locations.
Telephone meetings were also held with the component auditors at these locations.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accor dance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Page 31 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 23 07 2014 13:55 Page 32 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daejan Holdings PLC continued 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Board.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 24 27 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Page 32 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt2 23 07 2014 13:55 Page 33 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 28, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Bill Holland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 22 July 2014 Page 33
