Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Barratt Developments PLC Opinion on the Financial Statements of Barratt Developments PLC In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Accounting Policies, the Impact of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective, Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Accounting Policies on pages 102 to 109 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basisofaccounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements isappropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, thisstatement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as agoing concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of land and work inprogress Our work involved testing each of the key assumptions and forecasts which The Groups assessment of the carrying value of land and work in progress, support the basis of the valuation of land, including strategic land, and work being the lower of cost and net realisable value, is a judgemental process in progress.
We have compared the Group assumptions to external market which requires the estimation of future selling prices, sales rates and costs to forecasts for sales price inflation and build cost inflation and have tested complete, determined on a site by site basis.
These factors drive the gross a sample of sites to current market data on sales rates, sales prices and margin for each site and hence that recognised at the point of sale.
We have performed independent sensitivity analysis, recognition on social housing developments accounted for under IAS 11 informed by external forecasts.
We attended a sample of valuation Construction Contracts requires additional judgement in calculating the meetings to assist us in assessing the adequacy of managements key revenue and profit to be recognised, estimating the total expected costs controls around the forecasting of costs.
We also tested the design and to complete each site and the percentage of completion at the balance implementation of the Groups controls relating to the determination of sheet date.
costs to complete as this is the most significant judgment applied to each site valuation.
A sample of construction contracts were tested through verification of costs incurredand supporting evidence for the percentage completion at the balance sheet date sought from third party surveyors.
A selection of these schemes have been reviewed with a sample of costs agreed to surveyors certificates, total sales values agreed to contracts, and the recognition formula verified to support revenue recognised.
Valuation of available for sale financial assets We have tested each of the key assumptions underpinning the fair value The Groups available for sale financial assets are held at fair value.
The model through comparison to historic experience of the Group in terms assets represent loans granted as part of housing sales transactions that of redemption values and defaults, tested the consistency of assumptions are secured by way of a second charge on the respective property.
The employed by the Group for forecast sales price inflation and compared the valuation requires the exercise of significant judgement in estimating the discount rate employed to the equivalent interest rate charged on a second future cash flows expected from the redemption of the loans, including charge loan of similar quantum and duration to the average loan issued by an estimate of the market value of the property at the estimated time of the Group.
We have employed sensitivity analysis to the key assumptions repayment, and the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate and have reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided the present value of the cash flows.
in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, including the classification within the fair value hierarchy.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Financial Statements continued Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Barratt Developments PLC continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged each of the key assumptions employed in the annual The Groups assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is goodwill impairment test.
This included reference to our internal valuation a judgemental process which requires estimates concerning the estimated specialists benchmarking of the discount rate employed, including its future cash flows associated with the goodwill and brand assets held, the methodology and constituent inputs, comparison to independent market discount rates and the growth rate of revenue and costs to be applied in forecasts of revenue and cost growth in the housebuilding sector and determining the value in use.
an assessment of the Groups historic forecasting accuracy.
We also performed sensitivity analysis in relation to the key inputs to the goodwill impairment test model and focused on the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 57.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out on page 111.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 24 million, which is 6.1% of statutory pre-tax profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.48 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The entire Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the divisions which comprise the Groups housebuilding segment, the Groups commercial developments segment and the head office consolidation.
We choose to visit eight of the Groups housebuilding divisions across each of the Groups six regions, selected on a rotational basis and with reference to size and complexity among other factors.
We always visit each of the London divisions and we visit Wilson Bowden Developments Limited, which constitutes the Groups commercial developments segment.
We consider that we obtain a better level of understanding of the business to underpin our robust audit approach by visiting a number of divisions rather than performing all of our work centrally from the Groups head office.
We audit all of the Groups subsidiaries which are subject to audit at a statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower than Group materiality.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
94 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Goodey Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 9 September 2014 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95
