120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 33 Independent Auditors Report 2014 was assessed by the Board of Directors Independent Auditors Report to based on an independent valuation prepared by the Members of F&C Commercial the Groups external property valuer.
As Property Trust Limited highlighted in the Report of the Audit Committee, Opinions and Conclusions Arising from our the valuation of the Groups property portfolio, Audit given it represents the majority of the total assets Opinion on Financial Statements of the Group and requires the use of significant We have audited the consolidated financial judgment, is a significant area of the audit.
statements the financial statements of F&C Our response Our audit procedures with Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company respect to the valuation of the Groups investment and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year properties included, but were not limited to, ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the testing the design, implementation and operating Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, effectiveness of the relevant controls, involvement the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated of our own United Kingdom Real Estate Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated specialist, to examine the valuation prepared by Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
The the external property valuer and to evaluate the financial reporting framework that has been applied appropriateness of the valuation methodologies in their preparation is applicable law and International and assumptions used, including undertaking Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the discussions on key findings with the external European Union EU.
In our opinion, the financial valuer.
statements: We challenged the external valuers assumptions give a true and fair view of the state of the and data by comparing key inputs to the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of valuation such as current and estimated rental its profit for the year then ended: income, initial and equivalent yields, estimated capital value, occupancy and tenancy contracts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as for consistency with other audit findings.
adopted by the EU: and We also considered the Groups disclosures see Note 1 f in relation to the use of estimates and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. judgments regarding fair value of investment properties and the Groups valuation policies Our Assessment of Risks of Material adopted and fair value disclosures in Note 9 for Misstatement compliance with International Financial Reporting The risks of material misstatement detailed in this Standards as adopted by the EU.
section of this report are those risks that we have Accounting Recognition of Secured Bonds 230 deemed, in our professional judgment, to have had million and Consolidation of F&C Commercial the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the Property Finance Limited as at 31 December 2014 allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the Refer to page 28 of the Report of the Audit efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit Committee, Note 1 b accounting policies and procedures relating to these risks were designed in disclosures in Notes 13, 14 and 18 the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is The risk As part of the Groups re-nancing not modied with respect to any of these risks, and plan, on 31 December 2014, the Group drew we do not express an opinion on these individual down a new long-term loan of 260 million as risks.
detailed in Note 14 to the financial statements in In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial order to repay the Groups existing 230 million Secured Bonds and the 30 million Bank Loan statements, the risks of material misstatements that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: 2015.
The majority of these funds were held in a secured bank account as at 31 December 2014 Valuation of Investment Properties 1,195.6 million and were used to repay the Secured Bonds on 2 Refer to page 28 of the Report of the Audit January 2015.
Notice was given by F&C Committee, Note 1 f accounting policies and Note 9 Commercial Property Finance Limited to the disclosures Bond Trustee on 10 November 2014 to repay the The risk The Groups property portfolio Secured Bonds which resulted in an irrevocable accounted for 91.4 per cent of the Groups total commitment as at that date.
This gave rise to assets as at 31 December 2014.
The fair value two issues considered by the Audit Committee, of the investment properties at 31 December namely a the requirement to consolidate the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 34 Independent Auditors Report continued results of F&C Commercial Property Finance the basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has Limited, a special purpose vehicle established to to apply judgment in identifying whether a issue the Secured Bonds given the consolidation misstatement or omission is material and to do so criteria in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial the auditor identies a monetary amount as Statements and b whether the offsetting materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
requirement in IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets The materiality for the financial statements as a whole and Financial Liabilities was met such that the was set at 30.1 million.
This has been calculated funds held at 31 December 2014 for repayment using a benchmark of the Groups total assets of of the Secured Bonds should be offset against which it represents approximately 2.5 per cent which the liability for the Secured Bonds, and the net we believe is the most appropriate benchmark as balance of nil be shown on the face of the investment property values are considered as the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Given that both prime driver of returns to the members.
IFRS 10 and IAS 32 require judgment and We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all interpretation in their application this is considered corrected and uncorrected misstatements we a significant area of the audit.
As highlighted in identied through our audit with a value in excess of the Report of Audit Committee, the Directors 1.5 million, in addition to other audit misstatements have assessed and concluded that a the below that threshold that we believe warranted Company meets the criteria under IFRS 10 to reporting on qualitative grounds.
consolidate the results as at 31 December 2014 of F&C Commercial Property Finance Limited and The Group audit team performed the audit of the b the offsetting requirement under IAS 32 was Group as if it was a single operating entity based on met such that the cash held should be offset the aggregated set of financial information for the against the liability for the Secured Bonds as at Group.
The audit was performed using the 31 December 2014 in the consolidated financial materiality levels set out above and covered 100 per statements.
cent of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets.
Our response Our audit procedures with respect to the application of IFRS 10 and IAS 32 Our assessment of materiality has informed our included, but were not limited to, forming an identication of significant risks of material independent evaluation of the relevant facts and misstatement and the associated audit procedures circumstances supporting the Directors performed in those areas as detailed above.
assessment that a the Company meets the Whilst the audit process is designed to provide requirements of IFRS 10 in terms of consolidation reasonable assurance of identifying material of F&C Commercial Property Finance Limited as misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to at 31 December 2014 and b whether the Group do so.
Rather we plan the audit to determine the can apply IAS 32 to offset the funds held against extent of testing needed to reduce to an the liability for the Secured Bonds.
We challenged appropriately low level the probability that the the Directors assessment that funds held for aggregate of uncorrected and undetected repayment of the bonds were under the control misstatements does not exceed materiality for the of the Bond Trustee, that the Bond Trustee had financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires the power to control the purpose of the cash and us to conduct significant depth of work on a broad that the cash was solely being used for range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as repayment of the Secured Bonds and for no well as devoting significant time of the most other purpose.
We have considered the experienced members of the audit team, in particular adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the Responsible Individual, to subjective areas of the the application of the accounting standards IFRS accounting and reporting process.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Our Application of Materiality and an Overview sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the of the Scope of Our Audit financial statements are free from material Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This level of precision in financial statements.
Auditing includes an assessment of: whether the accounting standards describe a misstatement or an omission as policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances material if it could reasonably be expected to and have been consistently applied and adequately inuence the economic decisions of users taken on disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 34 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 35 accounting estimates made by the Board of compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
In addition, we read all the financial and We have nothing to report in respect of the above non-financial information in the Annual Report to responsibilities.
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information Scope of Report and Responsibilities that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or The Purpose of this Report and Restrictions on materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired its use by Persons other than the Companys by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Members as a Body become aware of any apparent material This report is made solely to the Companys misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 implications for our report.
of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and, in respect of any further matters on which we have Matters on Which We are Required to Report by agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with the Exception Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Under International Standards on Auditing ISAs that we might state to the Companys members UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, those matters we are required to state to them in an based on the knowledge we acquired during our auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the audit, we have identied other information in the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency assume responsibility to anyone other than the with either that knowledge or the financial Company and the Companys members, as a body, statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and we have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our Auditor audit and the Directors statement that they As explained more fully in the Directors consider that the Annual Report and financial Responsibilities Statement set out on page 32, the statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Directors are responsible for the preparation of the understandable and provides the information financial statements and for being satisfied that they necessary for members to assess the Groups give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, performance, business model and strategy: or and express an opinion on, the financial statements the Report of the Audit Committee does not in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and appropriately address matters communicated by Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with us to the audit committee.
the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Company has not kept proper accounting records: or the financial statements are not in agreement with Heather J MacCallum the accounting records: or For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands we have not received all the information and Limited explanations, which to the best of our knowledge Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors and belief are necessary for the purpose of our Glategny Court audit.
Glategny Esplanade Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the St. Peter Port part of the Corporate Governance Statement on Guernsey GY1 4HP pages 25 to 26 relating to the Companys 9 April 2015 The maintenance and integrity of the F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements or audit report since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
