160 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Directors remuneration REPORT ON THE PARENT Under International Standards on Auditing COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors remuneration report Companies UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland Act 2006 opinion Our opinion we are required to report to you if, in In our opinion, the part of the Directors In our opinion, Grainger plcs parent our opinion, information in the Annual remuneration report to be audited has company financial statements the report is: been properly prepared in accordance with financial statements : materially inconsistent with the the Companies Act 2006. give a true and fair view of the state information in the audited financial of the parent companys affairs as at statements: or Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 30 September 2014: Under the Companies Act 2006 we apparently materially incorrect based have been properly prepared in are required to report to you if, in our on, or materially inconsistent with, our accordance with United Kingdom opinion, certain disclosures of Directors knowledge of the company acquired in Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: remuneration specified by law are the course of performing our audit: or and not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising have been prepared in accordance with We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the requirements of the Companies from this responsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE Adequacy of accounting records and What we have audited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND information and explanations received Grainger plc s financial statements THEAUDIT Under the Companies Act 2006 we are comprise: required to report to you if, in our opinion: Our responsibilities and those of the Directors the parent company balance sheet as at we have not received all the information As explained more fully in the Statement of 30 September 2014: and and explanations we require for our Directors responsibilities set out on page the notes to the financial statements, audit: or 77, the Directors are responsible for the which include a summary of significant adequate accounting records have not preparation of the financial statements and accounting policies and other been kept by the parent company, or for being satisfied that they give a true and explanatory information.
returns adequate for our audit have not fair view.
The financial reporting framework that been received from branches not visited Our responsibility is to audit and has been applied in the preparation of the by us: or express an opinion on the financial financial statements is applicable law and statements in accordance with the financial statements and the part of United Kingdom Accounting Standards applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Directors remuneration report to be United Kingdom Generally Accepted Those standards require us to comply audited are not in agreement with the Accounting Practice.
with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING This report, including the opinions, from this responsibility.
has been prepared for and only for Consistency of other information the Companys members as a body in Companies Act 2006 opinions accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 In our opinion, the information given in the of the Companies Act 2006 and for no Strategic report and the Directors report other purpose.
We do not, in giving these for the financial year for which the financial opinions, accept or assume responsibility for statements are prepared is consistent with any other purpose or to any other person to the financial statements.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Strategic report Governance Financials 161 What an audit of financial statements involves OTHER MATTER We conducted our audit in accordance We have reported separately on the Group with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves financial statements of Grainger plc for the obtaining evidence about the amounts year ended 30 September 2014. and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an David Snell Senior Statutory Auditor assessment of: for and on behalf of  LLP whether the accounting policies are Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors appropriate to the parent companys London circumstances and have been consistently 20 November 2014 applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report and accounts 2014 the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
