Strategic report Governance Financials 79 Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC Areas of focus REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Valuation of investment properties and STATEMENTS inventories trading properties.
financial statements is applicable law and Our opinion IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Valuation of derivative In our opinion, Grainger plcs financial instruments.
Our audit approach Group financial statements the Recoverability of deferred consideration financial statements : Materiality from the disposal of the former subsidiary give a true and fair view of the state of Overall Group materiality: 5.8m, which Equity Release Increments Limited the Groups affairs as at 30 September represents 5% of average operating ERIL.
2014 and of its profit and cash flows for profit before valuation movements and the year then ended: Risk of fraud in revenue recognition non-recurring items OPBVM over a through the posting of manual entries.
have been properly prepared in three year period.
accordance with International Financial The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Audit Scope Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We conducted our audit in accordance with The scope of our Group audit was by the European Union: and International Standards on Auditing UK determined through assessment of the have been prepared in accordance with and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
location of the underlying accounting the requirements of the Companies Act We designed our audit by determining books and records, of which there are 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
materiality and assessing the risks of two distinct components: the head office material misstatement in the financial in Newcastle upon Tyne, and the German What we have audited statements.
In particular, we looked at residential business in Frankfurt.
Grainger plcs financial statements where the directors made subjective The head office was assessed as a full comprise: judgements, for example in respect scope component, with audit procedures the Consolidated statement of financial of significant accounting estimates performed over all material account position as at 30 September 2014: that involved making assumptions and balances combined with testing of Group the Consolidated income statement considering future events that are inherently account balances managed centrally from and the Consolidated statement of uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also this location, including treasury line items comprehensive income for the year addressed the risk of management override Specific audit procedures were then ended: of internal controls, including evaluating performed over account balances in the whether there is evidence of bias by the the Consolidated statement of cash flows German residential business, based on directors that may represent a risk of for the year then ended: our assessment of the risk of material material misstatement due to fraud.
the Consolidated statement of changes in misstatement by both their nature The risks of material misstatement equity for the year then ended: and and value.
This work involved visiting that had the greatest effect on our audit, the notes to the Group financial and performing audit procedures at including the allocation of our resources statements, which include a summary of the Groups Frankfurt office on those and effort, are identified as areas of significant accounting policies and other account balances at this location that focus in the table below together with explanatory information.
contributed significantly to the Groups an explanation of how we tailored our financial performance and or position.
audit to address these specific areas.
This is Certain required disclosures have been not a complete list of all risks identified by presented elsewhere in the Annual Report our audit.
and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
80 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment properties and inventories trading properties Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, pages 97-98 Accounting We agreed that property information supplied to external independent policies, pages 103-107 Critical accounting estimates and valuers by management including details of the current tenant, type of tenure, type of property and address for a sample from all portfolios was assumptions and note 2 to the financial statements.
consistent with the underlying property records held by the Group and The Groups property assets, which are located in both the UK and tested during our audit.
Germany and recorded as either Investment properties or Inventories, We read all year end valuation reports provided by external organisations represent the majority of assets in the Consolidated statement who were engaged by the Group to conduct valuations for the purpose of financial position, amounting to 1.4bn.
The Groups property of these financial statements.
We confirmed valuations had been portfolios are not uniform in nature, and therefore a number of performed on bases consistent with practices approved by the Royal different assumptions are made by the Groups in-house valuers and or Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS : and assessed whether these independent valuers appointed by the Group in determining fair value.
external organisations had appropriate qualifications and expertise to The key assumptions which affect fair value and which we focussed on in undertake such valuations and that the definition of fair value adopted our audit were: by both the directors and these organisations was consistent with UK residential properties the estimated vacant possession value, definitions in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We also read the based on comparable sales in the same locality and the external and reports and associated terms of engagement between the Group and internal condition of the property: and the appropriate discount the external organisations to identify any apparent matters which might haircut applied to the estimated vacant value based on the type of have affected the independence and objectivity of the organisations, or tenure in place by the current occupant, as calculated by the external limitations imposed on them, in their performance of these valuations.
In assessing vacant possession values of the UK residential properties, Where such properties are recorded as Inventories, we also focussed we attended a meeting between management and the external on the additional key assumptions relating to future expected house independent valuer at which we discussed those properties where price inflation and the vacancy rate which is used as a proxy for the initial directors in-house and the external independent valuerss estimating the period of time until vacant possession and sale in valuations were not within our independently determined acceptable assessing the appropriateness of the net realisable values arrived at by tolerance range.
We assessed whether additional evidence presented the directors.
in arriving at the final directors valuations for those properties agreed by both parties was appropriate, and where provided by management Retirement solutions properties the assumptions in arriving at whether this was robustly challenged by the external independent vacant possession value and assessing net realisable value where valuers where appropriate.
recorded as inventories are the same as for UK residential properties.
However the discount to vacant possession value to arrive at market For assessing market values of UK residential and Retirement solution value is property specific instead of a standard discount being applied properties, we also assessed whether the discounts applied to vacant by tenure type.
We utilised our knowledge and experience of discounts normally observed in both markets for sales Individual property discounts are calculated by the external of tenanted properties and, specifically for the Retirement solutions independent valuers and requires estimation of the period until the portfolio, our independently derived longevity assumptions.
We also Group can obtain vacant possession and application of an appropriate recalculated the application of these discounts to vacant possession discount rate.
values to identify any error in managements calculations and completed Developments where the directors intention is to realise sale sensitivity analyses to determine the extent of a change in assumptions on completion of a development, the significant assumptions that collectively would be required for the valuations to be materially affecting market value relate to total projected revenues and total misstated.
Having done so we considered the likelihood of such a projected costs as prepared by the directors and assessed by changearising.
Where the intention is to sell without In auditing the net realisable value calculations for the UK residential development, the market value in its current condition as assessed by and Retirement solution portfolios, we independently re-performed the external independent valuers based on comparable sales is the managements calculations to identify errors in the input data or key assumption.
All developments are recorded as inventories.
We also evaluated the house price inflation and vacancy assumptions with reference to our independently derived house price inflation estimates and historic average vacancy rates on the portfolios.
We further assessed for any likely material error by performing sensitivity analyses on these two assumptions in these models.
Strategic report Governance Financials 81 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus German residential the multiple of net rental income inverse yield For Developments, we focussed on sites where market valuation of the which is applied to the individual properties in arriving at their market site in its current state suggested the potential need for a provision to value, using an income capitalisation approach.
The rent multiple is bring the site down to its net realisable value where the valuation on the dependent on a number of factors including the propertys location, basis provided by the external independent valuers was lower than the size and condition and calculated directly by the external independent cost recorded in the balance sheet.
Where managements intention is valuers.
All properties in Germany are recorded as investment to develop out such sites, we obtained managements project appraisal properties.
model detailing the total projected revenues and costs and tested the model to ensure that there were no apparent material errors in Each of the key assumptions for the Groups portfolios discussed above underlying calculations of expected profit.
We assessed the underlying require significant estimation, and are used where market value or net assumptions within such models with reference to evidence from realisable value cannot be observed directly through realisation via sale previous sales at the site where available together with a comparison of to a third party.
development spending in current and prior years to original estimates.
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the fact We also performed sensitivity analyses to assess the change in that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations assumptions that would be required to eliminate the development profit when aggregated could result in material misstatement, is why we have and result in recognition of a provision, as well as assessing the likelihood given specific audit focus and attention to this area.
Our work on the German residential market valuations involved assessment of the rent multiples applied across the different properties utilising our knowledge of the German property market.
We also factored into our testing evidence of any defects or required repairs to properties and costs required to rectify them, as provided to the external independent valuers, performing work to ensure such costs were supported by independent evidence and complete.
Where remedial work was identified as being required, we checked that this had been accounted for in the valuations recorded in the financial statements.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of derivative financial instruments Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 108 Critical We agreed models and fair values derived for each derivative financial accounting estimates and assumptions and pages 138 to 144 instrument by the external consultants to the values recorded in the Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments financial statements.
seenote 29 to the financial statements.
A sample of derivative contracts were obtained from the Group and The Groups operations are funded through a number of variable-rate the key terms of these contracts, being the nominal value, the floating and fixed interest rates and the frequency and timing of payments loan facilities through a number of different lenders in both the UK and Germany.
As a result, the Group is exposed to changes in interest rates were used to determine independent valuations for these instruments on these facilities.
The directors have sought to mitigate this risk through at the balance sheet date using our own models.
Within our models the use of a number of derivative financial instruments in the form of we used externally available sources to determine our own estimates floating to fixed interest rate swaps, collars and caps to hedge the risk of independently of the Group for interest yield curves, discount rates and future movements in interest rates on these loans.
an estimate of the appropriate credit risk adjustment for the Group in arriving at our estimates of fair value.
Changes in current and future interest rate expectations since the inception of these instruments have resulted in an aggregate fair value attributable We compared our independently determined fair values to those to the contracts of 48.0m, which are recorded as liabilities in the balance calculated by the external consultants for the same instruments to sheet and a resulting fair value movement compared to the prior year evaluate whether any differences arising were within our accepted recorded in the income statement as a loss gain of 1.2m.
tolerance thresholds and estimated the potential aggregate fair value difference across the portfolio of instruments as a whole.
82 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus The directors engage external consultants to determine the fair value of each individual derivative financial instrument at the balance sheet date.
The key assumptions in the valuation of these instruments are: the interest yield curve estimate of future interest rates used to estimate future cash flows for the floating element of these contracts: determination of the appropriate discount rate to apply to all of the future cash flows: and for instruments that are out of the money i. e. liabilities assumptions regarding the Groups creditworthiness used in calculating credit risk adjustments applied in arriving at the fair value of the instruments and required to comply with accounting standards.
We focussed on this area as the use of specific models and the level of judgement that needs to be applied in determining appropriate assumptions in such models to derive fair values increases the risk of error.
As there are a number of these instruments with combined fair values that are highly material, a relatively small rate of error in the calculation of their values, in aggregate, could result in material misstatement of the financial statements.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of deferred consideration from the disposal of the former subsidiary Equity Release Increments Limited ERIL Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 134 Trade and other We read the sale and purchase agreement for the disposal of ERIL, receivables and page 140 Financial risk management and derivative and the properties included as part of this sale, to ascertain the extent financial instruments.
of protections security provided to the Group in the event of nonrepayment by the purchaser.
On 9 January 2014, the Group completed the sale of a number of residential units previously owned as home reversion plans in its We also inquired of management as to other security arrangements in Retirement Solutions portfolio and the sale of the former subsidiary place, which were relied upon by the directors in their assessment of the ERIL to a third party.
The terms of the sale involved payment of 60% of recoverability of this receivable, contained in side agreements.
Where the agreed consideration on this date, with the remaining 40% due for security side agreements were identified we read the agreement to payment within one calendar year of completion.
ascertain the extent of security provided.
At the balance sheet date, an asset of 35.0m was recorded within In assessing the likelihood of repayment, we obtained the unaudited trade and other receivables relating to this deferred consideration.
management accounts of the purchaser to form an independent view Thedirectors assessment of the likelihood of settlement is a key factor as to whether the purchaser has sufficient funds available at the date of indetermining recoverable value for this consideration.
these financial statements, or assets which could be used as security to raise sufficient funds at this date, to meet its obligations to the Group.
The directors are of the view that no impairment write-down of the asset receivable is warranted based on their assessment that this will be fully We read correspondence to and from the purchaser and the Group recovered.
In arriving at this assessment the directors have reviewed by to confirm no inconsistencies between this correspondence and the the financial position of the buyer and their ability to pay the determined assessment of recoverability arrived at by the directors.
We also read amount on the due date, taking into account the security provided for minutes of meetings of the Group for any apparent inconsistencies.
Both the benefit of the Group in the event of non-payment of the outstanding of these procedures were carried out up to the date of approval of these receivable, which the directors consider is robust.
The magnitude of the receivable in addition to the reliance placed by the directors on security arrangements in assessing recoverability is why we have focussed on this receivable.
Strategic report Governance Financials 83 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition through the posting of manual entries Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report and pages 99-100 for We utilised computer assisted auditing techniques to obtain a complete disclosures of the relevant accounting policies for recognition of population of manual journal entries in the accounting books and revenue and a list of revenue streams.
From this population we applied risk weightings to each manual journal entry.
Our weightings were tailored to identify ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
all manual journal entries increasing recorded revenues as well as any We have analysed the risk based on our knowledge of the standard manual journal entries which suggested settlement of revenue via processes followed for recording revenue entries in the accounting non-standard means i. e. not through settlement directly to cash or to books and records for each revenue stream individually.
The Group has receivables and then to cash which are regarded as higher risk.
four revenue streams, being Rental income, Service Charge income, Proceeds from sale of trading properties and management fee income High risk entries were substantively tested to determine the rationale for see note 5 to the financial statements.
the manual adjustment with evidence obtained to confirm that either a service had been provided or a sale had occurred supporting the The process for recording rental income, service charge income and recognition of the associated revenue recorded via these entries.
property disposals are highly standardised, closely controlled and relatively straightforward to reconcile to cash receipts and receivables.
Rental and service charge income are also predictable.
Management fee income involves more judgement for certain contracts, particularly those involving performance related fees in assessing the timing of revenue recognition however this is not a significant revenue stream to the Group.
We focused on the risk that revenue may have been recognised for all revenue streams for transactions that had not occurred.
Use of manual journal entries represents an opportunity for standardised revenue entry processes to be bypassed.
Such entries may not be picked up through managements controls and and therefore present a heightened risk that they may not be supported by an underlying transaction e. g. no actual sale of a property or no service provided for a fee income entry.
How we tailored the audit scope The accounting books and records for all Accordingly, due to the financial We tailored the scope of our audit to business lines and centralised functions, significance of the books and records ensure that we performed enough work to with the exception of the German located at the head office, we performed be able to give an opinion on the financial residential business, are located in the UK at an audit of all material account balances statements as a whole, taking into account the Groups head office in Newcastle upon and other financial information at the geographic structure of the Group, the Tyne.
The accounting books and records this location, together with additional accounting processes and controls, and the for the German residential business line procedures performed for account industry in which the Group operates.
The head office balances and other financial information The Group reports its operating in Newcastle upon Tyne and the Frankfurt managed centrally from the head results and financial position along five operations were therefore identified as office, which included audit procedures business lines being UK residential, the two components for scoping our audit performed over treasury line items: Cash Retirement solutions, Fund and third of the Group financial statements and, in and cash equivalents, Derivative financial party management, UK & European establishing the overall approach to our instruments, Interest-bearing loans and development and German residential.
audit, we determined the type of work borrowings and the Cash flow hedge The Group financial statements are a that needed to be performed at these reserve.
Centralised audit procedures were consolidation of these business lines and two locations.
also performed over Inventories, Taxation, centralised functions see note 4 to the Equity and Investments in joint ventures and financial statements.
84 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Materiality associates together with the assessment of We agreed with the Audit Committee that managements going concern assumption.
The scope of our audit is influenced by our we would report to them misstatements application of materiality.
We set certain We also determined it necessary to identified during our audit above 0.3m perform specific audit procedures over quantitative thresholds for materiality.
2013: 0.3m as well as misstatements These, together with qualitative account balances and other financial below that amount that, in our view, information in the German residential considerations, helped us to determine the warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
scope of our audit and the nature, timing business where we identified a significant Going concern risk of material misstatement to the and extent of our audit procedures and to Under the Listing Rules we are required evaluate the effect of misstatements, both group financial statements or where this to review the directors statement, set component significantly contributed to the individually and on the financial statements out on page 56, in relation to going as a whole.
amount recorded in the group financial concern.
We have nothing to report having statements.
As a result we performed audit Based on our professional judgement, performed our review.
we determined materiality for the financial procedures on Investment properties and As noted in the directors statement, Service charge income and expenditure, statements as a whole as follows: the directors have concluded that it is and performed procedures to address appropriate to prepare the financial the risk of override of controls by local Overall Group materiality statements using the going concern basis 5.8m 2013: 5.8m.
The going concern basis the groups Frankfurt office in order to How we determined it presumes that the Group has adequate obtain the audit evidence required from 5% of the average Operating profit before resources to remain in operation, and these procedures.
valuation movements and non-recurring that the directors intend it to do so, The performance of audit procedures items OPBVM over a three year period.
for at least one year from the date the at these locations, combined with the Adjustments to Profit before tax in financial statements were signed.
As part centralised testing, enabled us to conclude the Consolidated income statement of our audit we have concluded that the whether sufficient and appropriate in arriving at OPBVM for current and directors use of the going concern basis evidence had been obtained as a basis prior years are disclosed in note 3 to the is appropriate.
of our opinion on the group financial financial statements.
However, because not all future statements as a whole.
events or conditions can be predicted, Rationale for benchmark applied these statements are not a guarantee In our view, OPBVM continues to be as to the Groups ability to continue as a the most appropriate benchmark for going concern.
determining materiality because it provides a consistent basis that eliminates the volatility of valuation adjustments on the Groups properties and derivative financial instruments and the impact of non-recurring transactions.
We have also used a three year average to further adjust for the effects of volatility in trading in any single year.
