About Us 01 05 67 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Independent Auditors Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit.
1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of Bellway p. l. c. for the year ended 31 July 2014 set out on pages 70 to 98.
Inour opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 July2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards asadopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and asapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effecton our audit was as follows: Profit recognition on current sites and the carrying amount of land held for development and work in progress grossprofit 316.4 million: Land held for development and work in progress 1,758.3 million.
Refer to pages 42 to 44 Audit Committee Report, pages 76 and 79 Accounting Policies and note 13 on page 86 financial disclosures.
The risk Profit recognition on current sites and net realisable value of land held for development and work in progress are both reliant on the Groups estimation of future selling prices and build costs, both of which are uncertain.
Sales prices have inherent uncertainty due to changes in market conditions.
Build costs, and in particular sub-contractor costs, can vary with market conditions and may also be incorrectly estimated due to unforeseen events during construction.
Gross profit is recognised for legally complete house sales based on the latest whole site gross margin which is an output of the site valuations.
These valuations use actual and forecast selling prices and build costs and are sensitive to future movements in both the estimated cost to complete and expected selling prices.
Land held for development and work in progress are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast selling price less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An assessment of the net realisable value of land held for development and work in progress is carried out at each balance sheet date and is dependent on the Groups estimates of future selling prices and build costs, together with the likelihood of receiving planning permission for land held for development.
Planning permission is dependent on local and national policies, and without planning permission sites cannot be developed.
A change in the Groups estimate of sales price and build cost could have a material impact on the carrying value of Land held for development and Work in progress and the level of profit recognition in the Groups financial statements.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others: Inspecting a sample of land additions to evaluate the terms of the deal and checking to the amounts recorded in the financial statements, including re-performing the calculation of fair value for a sample of land acquired on deferred payment terms: Testing the Groups controls over the authorisation and recording of costs, including agreeing a sample of costs incurred to date from site valuations to invoice and or payment, including checking that they relate to the site against which they have been allocated: We attended a selection of site valuation meetings, where incurred costs and revenues were reviewed against budgets, and estimates of future cost and selling prices were discussed, challenged and updated, to check that senior operational, commercial and financial management were effectively challenging the forecast margins utilised to recognise profit: We used a variety of quantitative and qualitative factors to select those sites with a higher risk of material misstatement and conducted detailed site reviews for these sites to understand the associated risks and ascertain whether these risks had been factored into the site valuations.
The site reviews included the following procedures, among others, where relevant, i making inquiries of management, including senior operational, commercial and financial management, about their assessment of risks for these sites: ii reviewing site plans to gain an understanding of progress made and problems arising on the site: andiii comparing actual and budgeted unit sales and average selling prices to date to identify potential build or sale issues.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. continued 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED For a sample of sites we performed a comparison of estimated and actual revenue and costs across the period from the initial assessment of a sites viability conducted prior to acquiring land for development to July 2014 in order to assess the Groups ability to forecast accurately: On a site by site basis, we compared the gross margin recognised in the financial statements with the latest site valuations todetermine whether the margin recognised was appropriate: We developed an expectation, based on our attendance at site valuation meetings, our detailed site reviews, and other procedures, including enquiries of management and reviews of divisional board reports, of sites to be included in the Groups net realisable value provision.
We obtained the Groups net realisable value provision and compared land held for development and work in progress sites included to our expectations and, with reference to site valuations, determined whether amounts included had been calculated appropriately for these sites: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to areas of judgement and estimation in relation to these balances.
3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 15 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of revenue, of which it represents 1.0%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.5 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed an audit of the Groups main trading subsidiary.
The audit covered 100% of total Group revenue, 100% of total Group profit before taxation, and 95% of total Group assets.
For the other subsidiary companies and jointly controlled entities, we performed analytical procedures at the aggregated Group level to corroborate our conclusion thatthere are no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The audit undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the Groups main trading subsidiary was performed to a materiality levelof 8.75 million, as set by the Group audit team.
4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 ISUNMODIFIED In our opinion: the part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance withthe CompaniesAct 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements areprepared is consistent with the financial statements: and information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 40 to 44 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures as described in the Reportof the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 69 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIREDTO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, wehaveidentified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge orthe financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committees report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not beenreceived from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 44 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of anaudit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Nick Plumb Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Quayside House, 110 Quayside, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3DX 13 October 2014 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
