Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Materiality Overall Group materiality: 5.0m 2013: 3.8m which Savills plcs Group financial statements and Company represents 5% of Group underlying profit before tax.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys Audit scope affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit We conducted audit work in the UK, the US and Asia and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the Pacific, across all four of the Groups business lines, and year then ended: paid particular attention to the acquisition during the year the Group financial statements have been properly prepared of Studley, Inc. in the US.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Our audit work accounted for 80.5% of Group revenues Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: 2013: 78% and 82.5% 2013: 94% of Group underlying the Company financial statements have been properly profit before tax.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Area of focus and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Goodwill impairment assessment particularly for Companies Act 2006: and European businesses.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Provisions for litigation on valuations particularly with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, from the height of the property market around 2007. as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to the IAS Regulation.
cut-off for transaction and consultancy income.
Accounting for the acquisition of Studley, Inc. What we have audited Recoverability of receivables in Asia.
Savills plcs financial statements comprise: Regulatory compliance obligations.
the Consolidated and Company statements of financial The scope of our audit and our areas of focus position as at 31 December 2014: We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Consolidated income statement and statement Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company statements of cash We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing flows for the year then ended: the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
the Consolidated and Company statements of changes In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective in equity for the year then ended: and judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting the Notes to the financial statements, which include a estimates that involved making assumptions and considering summary of significant accounting policies and other future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, explanatory information.
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere by the Directors that may represent a risk of material in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the financial misstatement due to fraud.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with as a whole, and any comments we make on the outcome of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment Focusing on the European businesses, we evaluated and challenged Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, pages 84 and 92 Significant managements future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they Accounting Policies and pages 104 to 105 notes.
were drawn up, and tested the underlying value in use calculations.
We compared managements forecast to the latest Board approved budget The Group carried 228m of goodwill at 31 December 2014 2013: 135.6m and found them to be consistent.
of which 87m related to new acquisitions and 141m to existing businesses.
No impairment charge was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2014.
We challenged: the key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts by 85.6m of the goodwill balance related to the acquisition of Studley, Inc. comparing them to historical during the year.
The purchase price allocation exercise performed by results, as well as economic and industry forecasts for the relevant management which gave rise to the goodwill is provisional under accounting international property markets: and standards see the area of focus below on Accounting for the acquisition of the discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost of Studley, Inc., and the business is currently trading ahead of the investment capital for the company and comparable organisations.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions supporting the We focused our impairment assessment on the estimated values cash flow forecasts.
This included sensitising the discount rate applied to in use of those businesses in Europe with material amounts of goodwill.
the future cash flows, and the short and longer term growth rates and profit The Groups performance in this region improved during 2014, but there is margins in Europe due to continued uncertainty in the macro-economic continued economic uncertainty and property markets remain unsettled.
environment for a number of countries in the region.
We ascertained the extent to which a reduction in these assumptions both individually or in aggregate would result in goodwill impairment, and considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
We did not regard this to be reasonably possible.
Given the level of headroom, improved business performance in Savills Europe for 2014 and a more positive outlook for property markets in Savills key European locations, we concluded that the carrying value of goodwill had been appropriately assessed.
Provisions for litigation In order to assess the appropriateness of the provisions held at the balance Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, pages 86 and 92 Significant sheet date we obtained and read the legal claim letters and accompanying Accounting Policies and page 118 notes.
third party documentation received by the Group.
We met with the Groups internal and external counsel to consider in detail a number of the cases, and The Group is subject to a number of legal claims in the normal course of the potential exposure after taking into account the Groups insurance cover.
business, particularly with respect to valuations performed in the height of the property market in 2007.
Experience has shown that valuations We also tested that the workings prepared by management in relation to the performed around this time were more subject to challenge than in legal provisions were mathematically accurate and checked the amounts and other periods.
other details in respect of each new claim to the relevant third party supporting documentation.
Our audit procedures took into account both the potential exposure and the extent to which liabilities are likely to crystallise, as well as the adequacy To assess the reliability and accuracy of managements provision process of the insurance cover held by the Group.
we looked at legal cases settled during the year and traced the related cash payments to bank statements.
Our examination of Board minutes, legal There is also the risk that legal exposures may arise for which adequate expenses incurred during the year and any litigation-related matters arising provisions are not held.
after the year-end did not identify any further legal cases other than those identified by management.
Overall our work indicated that management had made reasonable judgements in their assessment process, taking into account developments since the height of the property market.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cutoff for transaction For all material transactions, we understood the commercial rationale and and consulting income the revenue recognition process adopted and considered that the related See note 2 to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of the revenue had been booked on a consistent basis across the Group in related accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
Our specific audit focus was on the risk that revenue may be inaccurately We tested a sample of revenue transactions to underlying contracts and third recorded and or recorded in the incorrect period for the transaction advisory party completion documentation, for example, property sales completion and consultancy revenue streams in light of the incentive schemes for statements, or asset or property management contracts, determining that management in those areas designed to reward performance.
these sales had taken place and were recorded in the correct period.
We additionally tested a sample of revenue to supporting documentation, For more complex contracts, the recognition of revenue is largely dependent cash receipts and related contracts, in order to verify that the income was on the date the underlying transaction is deemed to be completed.
We noted no instances of inappropriate revenue recognition in the period.
72 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the acquisition of Studley, Inc. We obtained the sale and purchase agreement and: Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, page 62 Significant checked the consideration paid to bank statements: Accounting Policies and page 111 notes.
checked that the deferred consideration had been calculated and The Group acquired Studley, Inc. a US-based real estate business, in May disclosed appropriately: 2014.
Accounting for the acquisition required a provisional fair value exercise, tested the existence and valuation of the acquired assets to third party including valuing any separately identifiable intangible assets.
This can be and source documentation: and a particularly subjective process.
considered whether liabilities had been recognised in full.
Management identified Studleys forward order book as the only separately We determined that managements analysis reflected the fair value exercise identifiable intangible asset, with a carrying value of 3.9m at 31 December accurately and that the relevant intangible assets i. e. the order book and 2014.
The order book consists of contracted business which spans a goodwill had been identified.
number of years and judgement was required to assess whether these In relation to the order book we obtained third party documentation for significant orders will come to fruition, including assessing the ability of customers contracts and checked that these were sufficiently firm orders.
to carry through the orders.
We sensitised the discount rate to ascertain the extent of change that would Judgement was also required over the discount rate applied to the future be required for the fair value to be materially misstated: the views we formed cash flows, given that the order book spans a number of years.
were consistent with managementss judgements.
Recoverability of trade receivables in Asia In order to confirm trade receivables in China, we requested confirmations Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, page 85 Significant for a sample of client debtor balances.
Where a response to our request was Accounting Policies.
not received, we sought to agree the relevant trade receivables balances to post year end cash receipts.
It is customary for clients to demand lengthy payment terms in parts of Asia and particularly China.
Agreed payment terms are also sometimes extended Where cash had not been received, we performed alternative procedures, particularly when unforeseen delays occur in property transactions.
The by agreeing amounts recorded to underlying sales contracts and completion Group is therefore exposed to a heightened risk of default in respect of trade documentation, discussing and assessing the reasons that the amounts were receivables in the Asia Pacific region.
This increased risk is factored into our not yet paid with Savills local management teams.
audit approach with respect to the provision against trade receivables.
We also looked at the aging profile on trade receivables, focusing on older debts for which no provision had been made.
We challenged management as to the recoverability of these older unprovided amounts, corroborating explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the client.
We also evaluated the Groups credit control procedures in Asia.
Based upon the above, we were satisfied that management had taken reasonable judgements that were supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivables.
Regulatory compliance obligations We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework within Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report.
which the Group operates, discussed the Groups approach to regulatory compliance with management internationally and with internal legal counsel, The Directors did not record any material instances of non-compliance in and evaluated managements internal control procedures.
the year, but the Group is subject to Financial Services, Chartered Surveyor, tax, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws and regulations across a We also read relevant correspondence with regulators to support number of international jurisdictions.
managements assertions, as well as Board minutes and internal audit reports.
We scanned legal expense accounts and considered the results Failure to comply with any of these applicable laws and regulations could of our audit work in other areas to determine whether there appeared to have a material impact on the results of the business and the reputation be any evidence of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations for integrity on which it relies.
and identified no such instances.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 73 Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed audits of the complete financial information accounted for 80.5% of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Group revenues and 82.5% of Group underlying profit before tax.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, Materiality and the industry in which the Group operates.
The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
The Group is structured across four business lines, being These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to Transaction Advisory, Consultancy, Property and Facilities determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and Management, and Investment Management services.
The extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting of misstatements, both individually and on the financial units that make up the four business lines, spread across statements as a whole.
four geographical regions, UK, US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality The Groups accounting process is structured around a local for the financial statements as a whole as follows: finance function in each of the territories in which the Group Overall Group 5.0 million 2013: 3.8 million.
In Europe, these functions maintain their own materiality accounting records and controls and report to a Head Office How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax as defined in finance team in the UK through submission of management Note 2.2 to the financial statements.
In Asia Pacific, these functions similarly report Rationale for Based on our professional judgement, we to a head office finance team in Hong Kong.
At a Group level, benchmark applied determined materiality by applying a benchmark of a separate finance team consolidates the reporting packs of 5% of underlying profit before tax.
We believe that Europe, Asia Pacific, UK, US and the central functions.
underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, effect of exceptional charges and provides a those businesses in UK and US, as well as Hong Kong, and consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
Australia within the Asia Pacific region, required an audit on their complete financial information.
We used component auditors We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to from other PwC firms who are familiar with the local laws and them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m regulations in each of the identified territories outside the UK 2013: 0.2m as well as misstatements below that amount that, to perform this audit work.
in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were also performed in Going concern China, Japan and Singapore depending on the areas of risk Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors identified at each entity.
statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Based upon Group materiality, we were not required to carry out detailed audit procedures on Savills Europe.
However, local As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded audit teams perform statutory audits of subsidiary companies that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the in Europe where required by local legislation.
These audits going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis were carried out to the same timetable as the Group audit and, presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources accordingly, we were able to incorporate the results of their work to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, into our overall risk assessment.
This included reviewing working for at least one year from the date the financial statements were papers for any issues arising on specific components that signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors impacted the Group audit, particularly revenue recognition, use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
recoverability of trade receivables and provisions for litigation.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be Where the work was performed by component auditors in the predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the US and in Asia Pacific, we determined the level of involvement Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
we needed to have to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our Other required reporting opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The group Consistency of other information engagement team visited Savills UK head office, Savills Asia Companies Act 2006 opinion Pacific head office in Hong Kong given the significance of this In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and region to the Group, and the US following the acquisition of the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial Studley, Inc. during the year.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included pensions, tax and share-based payments.
74 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, Our responsibilities and those of the Directors in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report for the preparation of the financial statements and for being arising from this responsibility.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the apparently materially incorrect financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs based on, or materially inconsistent UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the with, our knowledge of the Group Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with The statement given by the Directors We have no exceptions to report on page 72, in accordance with arising from this responsibility.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Governance Code the Code, that responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to they consider the Annual Report taken whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come as a whole to be fair, balanced and save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys What an audit of financial statements involves performance, business model and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts strategy is materially inconsistent and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give with our knowledge of the Group reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free and Company acquired in the course from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or of performing our audit.
This includes an assessment of: The section of the Annual Report We have no exceptions to report on page 47, as required by provision arising from this responsibility.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does Groups and the Companys circumstances and have not appropriately address matters been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: communicated by us to the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Audit Committee.
made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Directors judgements against available evidence, forming you if, in our opinion: our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the we have not received all the information and explanations financial statements.
we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the We test and examine information, using sampling and other Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to received from branches not visited by us: or provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We the Company financial statements and the part of the obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Directors remuneration audited financial statements and to identify any information that Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Companies Act 2006. material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you David A Snell Senior Statutory Auditor if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration for and on behalf of  LLP specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors arising from this responsibility.
London Corporate governance statement 18 March 2015 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 75
