Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc Our audit approach Report on the group The scope of our audit and our areas of focus financial statements Overview We conducted our audit in accordance Overall group materiality: 5.8 million Our opinion with International Standards on Auditing 2013: 6.25 million which represents UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion, Berendsen plcs group 5% of profit before tax.
financial statements the We designed our audit by determining financial statements : materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial, give a true and fair view of the state of statements.
In particular, we looked at the Groups affairs as at 31 December where the directors made subjective 2014 and of its profit and cash flows judgements, for example in respect of Materiality for the year then ended: significant accounting estimates that, have been properly prepared in involved making assumptions and accordance with International considering future events that are Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs inherently uncertain.
As in all of our as adopted by the European Union: audits, we also addressed the risk and of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether, have been prepared in accordance there was evidence of bias by the with the requirements of the directors that may represent a risk of Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 Audit scope material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, What we have audited including the allocation of our resources Berendsen plcs financial statements and effort, are identified as areas of comprise: focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to, the consolidated balance sheet as address these specific areas in order at 31 December 2014: to provide an opinion on the financial Areas, the consolidated income statement statements as a whole, and any of focus and statement of comprehensive comments we make on the outcome of income for the year then ended: our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of, the consolidated cash flow statement all risks identified by our audit.
for the year then ended: We performed an audit of the, the consolidated statement of complete financial information of nine changes in equity for the year then operating reporting units: ended: and, Which accounted for 89% 2013:, the notes to the financial statements, 88% of group revenues and 85% which include a summary of significant 2013: 88% of group profit accounting policies and other before tax.
The existence and valuation of Certain required disclosures have been inventory due to the number of presented elsewhere in the Annual locations that inventory is held at Report rather than in the notes to the and the absorption of freight financial statements.
These are crosscosts and duty.
referenced from the financial statements, The valuation of textile fixed assets and are identified as audited.
due to the difficulty in tracking The financial reporting framework individual items and verifying their that has been applied in the preparation useful economic lives.
of the financial statements is applicable, The carrying value of goodwill, law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
particularly in the German and Austrian Healthcare businesses.
The appropriateness of provisions recognised or contingent liabilities disclosed in relation to historical environmental liabilities in a number of locations.
108 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Existence and valuation of inventory During the year, there was a change in the internal We performed audit procedures for all operating reporting units with responsibilities within the Group, with the recruitment of material inventory balances.
a new procurement team and a renewed focus on the Existence we attended the year end inventory counts that were procurement process.
These changes, together with the performed by management at 14 locations and traced the inventory associated key risks and controls relating to textile count results to the inventory system, checking that they were inventory, were reviewed by the Audit Committee with accurately recorded in the year end inventory balance.
the Finance Director of UK Flat Linen during 2014 refer to page 78 of the Audit Committee report.
We We also obtained a sample of confirmations of inventory held Materiality considered the implications of these changes for our directly by third parties at the balance sheet date and successfully audit and concluded that the existence and certain reconciled these to the year end inventory balance.
aspects of the valuation of inventory should be an area Where inventory counts were not performed at the balance sheet of focus this year.
date, we tested the records of these counts to the year-end inventory Existence the Group holds inventory at many locations, balance via a sample of goods in outwards reports between the date including a number that are owned by third parties.
of the count and the balance sheet date without noting any There is a risk that inventory quantities will be misstated significant issues.
at one or more locations, particularly where inventory is Valuation to address the risk of misstatement in the valuation not under the direct control of the Group.
of inventory, a sample of stock items held by the Group was Audit scope Valuation inventory largely comes into the Group traced from the inventory system to third party purchase invoices.
We through the UK and Sweden Sourcing businesses.
The also obtained and tested managements workings on the absorption allocations of freight and duty costs in the standard of freight and duty costs to check that they had been accurately costing system are reviewed regularly but there is a risk allocated.
that the standard cost of inventory items could be misstated for these cost elements.
Valuation of textile fixed assets Areas Linen and workwear textiles are sold by the UK and In each of the nine operating units where an audit of the complete of focus Sweden Sourcing businesses to the operating units financial information was performed, we carried out substantive within the Group as textile fixed assets and depreciated analytical review over depreciation to test whether it was in line with over their useful economic lives.
We found the depreciation policy to have been applied consistently across the Group and to be in line with that detailed Other than in certain businesses which have introduced within the accounting policies note.
the individual tagging of garments in order to track their day-to-day use, textile assets are homogeneously We also compared the level of textile fixed asset additions between depreciated by category over their estimated useful 2011 and 2014 to depreciation over the same period, finding that economic lives currently between 20% and 40% per capital expenditure on textile assets was materially in line with annum as stated in the accounting policies on page 122. depreciation where there had been no major change in the scale and nature of the business.
We therefore considered the estimate of the These textiles are significant assets on the balance sheet useful economic lives of textile fixed assets to be acceptable.
Therefore, an over or understatement of the useful economic lives could lead to a material misstatement of depreciation for the year, affecting both the charge to the income statement and the valuation of the assets on the balance sheet.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 109 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the balance 390.2m as at 31 December 2014 and because process by which they were drawn up, including comparing them the directors assessment of the value in use of the to the latest Board approved budgets and testing the underlying Groups cash generating units CGUs involves calculations.
We found that management had followed a clear judgement about the future results of the business and process for drawing up the future cash flow forecasts, which were the discount rates applied to future cash flows forecasts.
subject to timely oversight and challenge by the directors and which were consistent with the Board approved budgets.
We found no Although the directors believe there is headroom material misstatements in calculations performed.
between the value in use of the CGUs and their carrying value, this remained an area of focus for us as a result of We challenged the directors key assumptions for long-term growth the size of the related goodwill balance.
rates in the cash flows by comparing them to historical results and economic forecasts.
We compared the current year actual results to Refer also to note 8 to the financial statements, page 78 the FY14 figures included in the prior year forecasts to consider audit committee report and page 126 key assumptions whether any forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, and sources of estimation and uncertainty.
Actual performance in the German and Austrian Healthcare CGU was below budgeted expectations and therefore management has reflected this in the current year future cash flow model.
We agreed that this judgement was appropriate given the past performance of the business.
For the discount rate we assessed the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations and found it to be in line with our expectations.
We performed a sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, being:, the growth rates:, the operating profit margins applied: and, the discount rate.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising, concurring with managements view that the chances of this were low.
We also considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 8 to the financial statements.
We found that they appropriately describe the inherent degree of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions to these estimates.
110 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Environmental liabilities The Group operates from laundries across Europe, at We examined the Groups latest assessment of the status of the some of which historic environmental liabilities may exist.
legal claims and obtained confirmation from its external legal Though the Group has indemnities from third parties over advisers of the likelihood of the Group successfully defending a number of these sites and expects to have the its position.
warranties confirmed in full so as to incur no significant In Sweden we checked the situation remains unchanged from the loss, it is currently defending legal claims in respect of prior year and determined that the accounting for any potential certain acquired sites.
environmental remediation as a contingent liability remains Judgement is required to assess the likelihood of these appropriate.
We read and were satisfied with the level of disclosure liabilities crystallising, in order to assess whether a in note 30 to the financial statements.
provision should be recognised and, if so, the amount of In the Netherlands, we evaluated and challenged managements that provision.
The total potential liability is uncertain and rationale for the provision held with respect to clean up of the site.
would be affected by improvements in environmental We obtained and read third party advice quantifying the amount clean-up technology and the future use of the sites.
provided and from the evidence obtained we considered the level In Sweden, no amounts have been provided in the of provision to be acceptable in the context of materiality.
balance sheet with respect to any future environmental We also obtained confirmations from external legal counsel and liability as the value and the timing of any cost to the read other correspondence supporting the recoverability of the Group is still impossible to determine.
As such, a asset recognised from third parties under warranties.
From the contingent liability continues to be disclosed within evidence obtained, we considered the current value of the asset the financial statements of the Group.
In the Netherlands, management have recognised a provision on a specific site that is subject to a constructive obligation to incur environmental clean-up costs.
The amount recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure that will be incurred before any related recovery.
We focused on this area due to the judgement associated with assessing the level of provision to cover the future obligation.
Under the terms of its share purchase agreement with a third party on the acquisition of the site, the company expects to have this amount reimbursed under its warranties and has consequently accounted for the estimated receivable at fair value.
Refer also to notes 18 and 30 to the financial statements, page 78 audit committee report and page 126 key assumptions and sources of estimation and uncertainty.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 111 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued Materiality However, because not all future events How we tailored the audit scope or conditions can be predicted, these We tailored the scope of our audit to The scope of our audit was influenced statements are not a guarantee as to ensure that we performed enough work by our application of materiality.
We set the groups ability to continue as a to be able to give an opinion on the certain quantitative thresholds for going concern.
financial statements as a whole, taking materiality.
These, together with into account the geographic structure qualitative considerations, helped us to Other required reporting of the Group, the accounting processes determine the scope of our audit and and controls, and the industry in which the nature, timing and extent of our Consistency of other information the Group operates.
audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both Companies Act 2006 opinions The Groups accounting process is individually and on the financial structured around a local finance In our opinion: statements as a whole.
function in each of the 23 operating, the information given in the Strategic reporting units under which the Group Based on our professional judgement, Report and the Directors Report for we determined materiality for the operates.
These functions maintain their the financial year for which the own accounting records and controls financial statements as a whole financial statements are prepared is as follows: and report to the head office finance consistent with the financial team in London through an integrated, Overall group materiality: 5.8 million statements: and consolidation system.
In our view, due 2013: 6.25 million : to their significance and or risk, the information given in the Corporate characteristics, nine of these units, How we determined it: 5% of profit Governance Statement set out on required an audit of their complete before tax 2013: 5% of adjusted profit pages 64 to 81 with respect to internal financial information and we used before tax : and control and risk management systems component auditors from PwC network and about share capital structures, Rationale for benchmark applied: firms who are familiar with the local laws is consistent with the financial We applied this benchmark, a and regulations in each of the territories statements.
generally accepted auditing practice, to perform this audit work.
In addition, in the absence of indicators that an ISAs UK & Ireland reporting specific audit procedures on inventory alternative benchmark would be were performed at the Sweden Sourcing Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are appropriate.
The use of profit before reporting unit to address the risk required to report to you if, in our tax this year instead of the adjusted identified in the existence and valuation opinion: profit before tax measure that we of inventory area of focus.
referred to last year had no impact, information in the Annual Report is: Where the work was performed by in practice on either the scoping of materially inconsistent with the component auditors, we determined the our audit or the assessment of our information in the audited financial level of involvement we needed to have audit findings.
statements: or in the audit work at those functions to be apparently materially incorrect We agreed with the audit committee able to conclude whether sufficient that we would report to them based on, or materially inconsistent appropriate audit evidence had been with, our knowledge of the Group misstatements identified during our obtained as a basis for our opinion on the acquired in the course of performing audit above 300,000 2013: group financial statements as a whole.
our audit: or 300,000 as well as misstatements is otherwise misleading The group engagement team visits the below that amount that, in our view, component teams on a rotational basis.
warranted reporting for qualitative We have no exceptions to report arising In the current year the group reasons.
engagement leader visited the Denmark, Going concern, the statement given by the directors Sweden and United Kingdom operating on page 107, in accordance with locations.
In addition, other members of Under the Listing Rules we are required provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate the group engagement team visited to review the directors statement, set Governance Code the Code, that Norway, Germany, Netherlands and the out on page 106, in relation to going they consider the Annual Report taken Sweden Sourcing operating locations.
We have nothing to report as a whole to be fair, balanced and having performed our review.
The group consolidation, financial understandable and provides the statement disclosures and a number As noted in the directors statement, the information necessary for members of complex items were audited by the directors have concluded that it is to assess the groups performance, group engagement team at the head appropriate to prepare the financial business model and strategy is office.
These included goodwill statements using the going concern materially inconsistent with our impairment, derivative financial basis of accounting.
The going concern knowledge of the group acquired in instruments, hedge accounting, the basis presumes that the group has the course of performing our audit.
Berendsen plc defined benefit pension adequate resources to remain in scheme and share-based payments.
operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the Taken together, the territories and date the financial statements were functions where we performed audit signed.
As part of our audit we have procedures accounted for 89% of group concluded that the directors use of the revenues and 85% of group profit going concern basis is appropriate.
112 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising Our responsibility is to audit and express In addition, we read all the financial and from this responsibility.
an opinion on the financial statements in non-financial information in the Annual accordance with applicable law and ISAs Report to identify material, the section of the Annual Report on UK & Ireland.
Those standards require inconsistencies with the audited financial page 76, as required by provision C. 3.8 us to comply with the Auditing Practices statements and to identify any of the Code, describing the work of Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
information that is apparently materially the audit committee does not incorrect based on, or materially appropriately address matters This report, including the opinions, has inconsistent with, the knowledge communicated by us to the audit been prepared for and only for the acquired by us in the course of committee.
companys members as a body in performing the audit.
If we become accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 We have no exceptions to report arising aware of any apparent material of the Companies Act 2006 and for no from this responsibility.
misstatements or inconsistencies we other purpose.
We do not, in giving consider the implications for our report.
these opinions, accept or assume Adequacy of information and responsibility for any other purpose or explanations received Other matter to any other person to whom this report Under the Companies Act 2006 we is shown or into whose hands it may We have reported separately on the are required to report to you if, in our come save where expressly agreed company financial statements of opinion, we have not received all the by our prior consent in writing.
Berendsen plc for the year ended information and explanations we require 31 December 2014 and on the for our audit.
We have no exceptions to What an audit of financial statements information in the Directors report arising from this responsibility.
involves Remuneration Report that is described as being audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence Directors remuneration about the amounts and disclosures in Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we the financial statements sufficient to give for and on behalf of  LLP are required to report to you if, in our reasonable assurance that the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London statements are free from material opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not misstatement, whether caused by fraud 26 February 2015 or error.
This includes an assessment of: made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
whether the accounting policies Notes: are appropriate to the Groups a The maintenance and integrity of Corporate governance statement circumstances and have been the Berendsen plc website is the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are consistently applied and adequately responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does required to report to you if, in our disclosed: not involve consideration of these opinion, a corporate governance, the reasonableness of significant matters and, accordingly, the auditors statement has not been prepared by the accept no responsibility for any accounting estimates made by the parent company.
We have no exceptions changes that may have occurred to directors: and the financial statements since they to report arising from this responsibility.
were initially presented on the website.
the overall presentation of the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required statements.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom to review the part of the Corporate governing the preparation and Governance Statement relating to the We primarily focus our work in these dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other parent companys compliance with areas by assessing the directors jurisdictions.
ten provisions of the UK Corporate judgements against available evidence, Governance Code.
We have nothing forming our own judgements, and to report having performed our review.
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the We test and examine information, using financial statements and sampling and other auditing techniques, the audit to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to Our responsibilities and those draw conclusions.
We obtain audit of the directors evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive As explained more fully in the Directors procedures or a combination of both.
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 107, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 113
