Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc Report on the financial Our audit approach The scope of our audit and our areas of focus statements Overview We conducted our audit in accordance Our opinion with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion, Berendsen Plcs financial statements the financial statements : We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of, give a true and fair view of the Materiality material misstatement in the financial state of the companys affairs as statements.
In particular, we looked at at 31 December 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of, have been properly prepared in significant accounting estimates that accordance with United Kingdom involved making assumptions and Generally Accepted Accounting considering future events that are Practice: and inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of, have been prepared in accordance management override of internal with the requirements of the Audit scope Companies Act 2006. controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of What we have audited material misstatement due to fraud.
Berendsen plcs financial statements The risks of material misstatement that comprise: had the greatest effect on our audit, the company balance sheet as at including the allocation of our resources 31 December 2014: and effort, are identified as areas of Areas focus in the table overleaf.
We have also, the accounting policies: and of focus set out how we tailored our audit to, the notes to the financial statements, address these specific areas in order which include other explanatory to provide an opinion on the financial information.
statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of The financial reporting framework that, Overall materiality: 9,200,000 our procedures should be read in this has been applied in the preparation of which represents 1% of total assets.
This is not a complete list of the financial statements is applicable all risks identified by our audit.
law and United Kingdom Accounting, We performed an audit of the Standards United Kingdom Generally complete financial information Accepted Accounting Practice.
Procedures to conclude that financial statements are free of risk of material misstatement.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 171 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Procedures to conclude that financial statements We performed audit procedures for material financial statement are free of risk of material misstatement line items and obtained reasonable assurance that balances are fairly stated.
Management override of controls We performed procedures over manual journals, key reconciliations and challenged management and conducted detailed testing of areas involving significant judgement including provision and accruals.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 9,200,000 2013: 9,200,000.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied The parent company income statement does not appear in the annual report as Berendsen takes the exemption under section 408 of Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company profit and loss account.
Therefore total assets are a more appropriate benchmark than Profit Before Taxes.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 300,000 2013: 300,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or, adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or, the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
172 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibilities for the What an audit of financial In addition, we read all the financial and statements involves non-financial information in the Financial financial statements and Statements the Annual Report to the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence identify material inconsistencies with about the amounts and disclosures in the audited financial statements and Our responsibilities and those of the financial statements sufficient to give to identify any information that is the directors reasonable assurance that the financial apparently materially incorrect based statements are free from material As explained more fully in the Directors on, or materially inconsistent with, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud Responsibilities Statement set out on knowledge acquired by us in the course or error.
This includes an assessment of: page 106, the directors are responsible of performing the audit.
If we become for the preparation of the financial, whether the accounting policies aware of any apparent material statements and for being satisfied that are appropriate to the companys misstatements or inconsistencies we they give a true and fair view.
consider the implications for our report.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Our responsibility is to audit and express Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor disclosed: an opinion on the financial statements in for and on behalf of  LLP accordance with applicable law and ISAs Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, the reasonableness of significant UK & Ireland.
Those standards require London accounting estimates made by the us to comply with the Auditing Practices 26 February 2015 directors: and Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the overall presentation of the This report, including the opinions, has financial statements.
been prepared for and only for the We primarily focus our work in these companys members as a body in areas by assessing the directors accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of judgements against available evidence, the Companies Act 2006 and for no forming our own judgements, and other purpose.
We do not, in giving evaluating the disclosures in the these opinions, accept or assume financial statements.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report We test and examine information, using is shown or into whose hands it may sampling and other auditing techniques, come save where expressly agreed by to the extent we consider necessary to our prior consent in writing.
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 173
