Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC Opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 2 January 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements together, the financial statements of The Weir Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 which comprise: for the Group financial statements, the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32: and for the Parent Company financial statements, the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our application of materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These provide a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group to be 18.0m 2013: 20.0m, which is 5% of adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations.
We have considered profit before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the impact of exceptional items, as we consider this adjusted measure to be a key driver of business value and therefore a focus for shareholders.
The decrease in materiality applied from the prior year is reflective of the reduction in this adjusted measure.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the overall control environment, our judgement is that performance materiality was 75% 2013: 75% of our materiality, namely 13.5 million 2013: 15.0 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all individual unadjusted audit differences and significant judgemental items which either affect the Income Statement in excess of 0.5m 2013: 0.5m, or the Balance Sheet in excess of 2.0m 2013: 2.0m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our professional judgement, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Changes from prior year We no longer consider that the fair valuation assessment of contingent consideration is a risk that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, following the exceptional gain on release of Mathena Inc. contingent consideration liability in 2013.
We no longer consider that acquisition accounting is a risk that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, following consideration of the size and complexity of the acquisition fair values for current year acquisitions.
We have considered that a material misstatement arising from the presentation and consistency of costs and income within exceptional items is a risk that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, following the Group-wide efficiency review announced in the current year.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 113 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Current year assessment We identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Exceptional items: Group-wide efficiency review Refer to page 46 Financial Review, page 87 Audit Committee report and page 134 note 5 to the financial statements.
The presentation, consistency and recognition of costs and We obtained and assessed managements summary of charges income within exceptional items is a key determinant in the incurred under the Group-wide efficiency review, split by Division assessment of the quality of the Groups underlying earnings.
We looked to understand with Management the rationale behind each business units charge, We have evaluated this as a risk of material misstatement, given then selected the seven key business units for further the increase in items presented as exceptional from prior years.
The primary components of the exceptional items in the current For these seven key business units, we obtained a breakdown year and therefore the focus of our audit were the charge of the charges and obtained supporting source documentation, relating to the Group-wide efficiency review announced in rationale behind key assumptions or the estimation process November 2014 49.4m and the impairment of goodwill within undertaken to confirm the appropriateness of charges recognised.
the Pressure Control Cash Generating Unit CGU 160.0m.
We further considered the nature of these charges, to assess We have considered the risk relating to the impairment of whether they are in line with the Groups accounting policy for goodwill later within this report.
exceptional items, and the Financial Reporting Councils reminder on consistency and clarity of presentation.
We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements in note 5 and related narrative reporting provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Refer to page 46 Financial Review, page 87 Audit Committee report, page 134 note 5 to the financial statements and pages 143 to 144 note 14 to the financial statements.
The key assumptions used in the assessment of the carrying We obtained and considered managements impairment testing, value of goodwill and intangible assets are determined with considering the calculation methodology, sources for key reference to judgemental factors such as future projected cash assumptions and sensitivities applied.
flows, growth rates and appropriate discount rates.
This therefore gives rise to inherent subjectivity in the carrying value of these We challenged the key assumptions behind the model, being assets recorded in the financial statements.
discount rate, long term growth rate, revenue growth and EBIT margins: utilising our valuations specialists to assist in this review.
In particular, the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs are The significant assumptions and their rationale are disclosed in noted as requiring specific focus as a direct result of the near-term note 14 to the financial statements.
lower oil price environment those CGUs operate in.
We considered potential indicators of impairment for each An impairment charge of 160.0m was noted as recognised Group entity with associated intangible assets, focusing on against Goodwill in the Pressure Control CGU at the year end.
those businesses experiencing particularly challenging markets and subject to restructuring under the Group-wide efficiency review.
We further considered the Groups sensitivity analysis showing the impact of a reasonable change in impairment assumptions, to determine whether an impairment charge was required.
For the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs, given the near-term lower oil price environment, we focused on the projected cash flows for these businesses under a range of oil price assumptions in the short and long terms, including scenarios generated from external analyst reports and internal EY economic projections.
For the Minerals CGU, we focused on challenging the short to medium term growth assumptions for these businesses through sensitivity analyses, following the rationalisation of certain businesses in that CGU as part of the Group-wide efficiency review.
Following managements assessment of impairment, and related sensitivities, an impairment charge of 160.0m was recognised against Goodwill in the Pressure Control CGU at the year end.
The rationale behind this charge is described in note 14 to the financial statements.
114 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of inventory Refer to page 46 Financial Review, page 88 Audit Committee report and page 145 note 16 to the financial statements.
Following the shift of North American drilling activity from gas Focusing on the North American Oil & Gas Pressure Pumping to oil and liquids rich shale formations in Q1 2012, the North business, we performed an aged analysis of the inventory, comparing American Oil and Gas pressure pumping business continues specific inventory lines against market activity as well as current and to have excess capacity in certain pressure pumping equipment forecast sales to identify excess or obsolete inventory exposures.
For full and specific scope business units within the Oil & Gas Furthermore, the recent decline in oil prices leaving a near-term division, we performed further inquiries of management, review lower oil price environment and corresponding effect on oil of the underlying product lines, detailed gross margin analysis rig count has increased the valuation risk within the Oil and and review of booked sales orders.
We also considered the application of the inventory provisioning accounting policy, including challenging the appropriateness of assumptions made by management, through comparison of the provisioning made against our analysis of excess or obsolete inventory.
Adequacy of the Groups liability provisioning Refer to page 46 Financial Review, page 88 Audit Committee report, pages 149 to 150 note 22 to the financial statements and page 159 note 27 to the financial statements.
The recognition and valuation of the expected outcome of We evaluated and challenged the assumptions and methodologies employee related or other legal claims and exposures across applied behind specific employee related provision calculations, the Group requires the exercise of management judgement and compared against our expectations.
Where applicable, we in assessing the amounts recorded and the disclosures made have agreed projected costs against historical cost experience in the financial statements.
For those exposures where provision is made, the use of estimates We have discussed the status of current litigation or regulatory within those provisions gives rise to inherent subjectivity in the issues with Group Legal Counsel and external lawyers throughout amounts recorded in the financial statements.
our audit process, reviewing correspondence with third parties and related contractual agreements.
For those exposures where no provision has been made, the obligation to disclose the nature and estimate of its financial We considered the current status of the UN Oil for Food programme impact gives rise to further judgement in the disclosure within and Philippines Gold contingent liability disclosures in note 27.
included review of current correspondence relating to these cases, meeting with Group Legal Counsel on several occasions and obtaining confirmations from external legal advisors engaged by management.
Following the increase in US asbestos-related claims during the year, we have considered managements review to assess and estimate the settlement and defence costs associated with these claims, and the adequacy of the Groups related insurance policies.
This included review of correspondence with insurers and actuaries, examination of the calculation behind the Directors best estimate of the future liability and disclosure within note 22.
Exposure to significant tax risks Refer to page 46 Financial Review, page 88 Audit Committee report and pages 135 to 136 note 7 to the financial statements.
The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect of a number We have utilised internal national and appropriate international of uncertain tax positions which require judgements in respect taxation specialists to assist the Group team in the evaluation of the likely outcome of negotiations with and enquiries from and challenge of the assumptions and estimates in relation various tax authorities.
to the level of provisions recognised for significant tax risks.
We have considered the movements in these provisions during the period, and the closing balances against our expectations.
We also considered any penalty regimes that could apply should any of the tax positions be successfully challenged.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 115 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Current year assessment continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue and profit recognition on construction contracts Refer to page 125 note 2 iii to the financial statements and pages 129 to 132 note 3 to the financial statements.
Auditing standards require that we consider the risk of fraud or In relation to construction contract accounting risk, we tested controls management override of internal controls in revenue recognition.
around accounting for construction contracts at five specific scope components, performed reviews of those contracts at those We have evaluated that the key risk of misstatement due to components with operational management, and challenged the management override, fraud and error specifically relates to: appropriateness of assumptions made by management following revenue recognition where construction contract accounting the outcome of similar assumptions made at the prior year end.
principles are followed as this involves judgement over future cost elements and percentage of completion.
In relation to the revenue manual journal entry risk, we tested manual journal adjustments to revenues made as a result reconciliation and manual journal entry authorisation controls of overriding existing processes or controls.
at those full scope and specific scope components where we deemed there to be a higher country, control or management risk.
In our testing of revenue recognition at those components, we considered the timing of revenue recognised and validity of manual journal entries posted around the year end.
For transactions close to the period end we tested that cut-off procedures were appropriately applied.
An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected twenty one 2013: twenty one components which represent the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments.
Of the twenty one components selected we performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components full scope components, which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining eighteen selected components specific scope components we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within the component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the amounts in the Group financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
These twenty one components account for 74% 2013: 69% of revenue, 78% 2013: 73% of adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations and 70% 2013: 75% of net assets, although for components where a specific scope audit was performed, not all balances that comprise these coverage percentages have been audited.
The audits of these components are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of the Group materiality appropriate to the relevant account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors for the business concerned.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 7.4m to 1.2m 2013: 7.5m to 1.5m.
In addition, certain central reporting entities and Group functions including those covering treasury, taxation, pensions and the Parent Company were subject to a full scope audit.
In order to support our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining business units not subject to a full or specific scope audit, we tested the consolidation process, carried out analytical procedures and performed selected substantive procedures for any significant balance sheet items in excess of performance materiality at the Group level.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits and Video Conferencing that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits those components with greatest exposure to the risks of material misstatements noted above.
This year, visits included key business units in Australia, United States of America, Canada and the United Kingdom.
We also ensure we have on-going communication with component teams throughout the year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
116 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 112, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 112, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
James Nisbet Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Glasgow 25 February 2015 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 117
