INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF GOING CONCERN ANTOFAGASTA PLC As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 100 that the Group is a going concern.
In our opinion: We confirm that: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: isappropriate: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in we have not identified any material uncertainties that may accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a as adopted by the European Union: going concern.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue Accounting Practice: and as a going concern.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement the related Notes 1 to 37 and the Parent Company Balance Sheet team and are unchanged from the prior year: and related information in Note 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable by law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK In assessing the carrying value of Antucoya we tested the impairment model Carrying value of the Antucoya project prepared by management to estimate the net present value of the project.
and other capital projects In particular, we tested the mechanical accuracy of the model and assessed the The Antucoya project was fully impaired in December 2012 and the project appropriateness of the key assumptions, principally capital expenditure estimates, was suspended.
On completion of a project review, the Board authorised the production volumes, copper price assumptions and related revenue estimates, and resumption of the project in March 2013, with cost capitalisation resuming, but no estimated operating costs principally labour, acid and power prices with reference reversal of the previous impairment.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate used by management by engaging internal valuation specialists.
The assessment of the carrying value at Antucoya $1.4bn is considered to be one of the most judgemental audit risks.
As the book value and the estimated net We assessed the impact of sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions, being present value of the project are very similar, a small change to the key revenue and the copper price and the discount rate.
cost assumptions could have a material impact on the estimated net present value of the project and result in either further impairment or the reversal of the previous We assessed other capital projects for impairment indicators by reviewing the progress of key projects and comparing costs incurred against latest budgets impairment charge.
Refer to Note 4 to the financial statements.
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of controls Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment relating to cost capitalisation at Antucoya, Los Pelambres and Centinela, and and of project costs tested, on a sample basis, the appropriateness of costs capitalised with reference Under the Groups accounting policies for property, plant and equipment, to supporting documentation including invoices and cash payments.
We also minedevelopment expenditure is capitalised, with capitalisation ceasing physically verified a sample of additions in the year.
We verified that all projects classified as at the feasibility study stage had been Ongoing expenditure for items of plant, property and equipment are capitalised approved in line with the Groups internal governance processes.
We also tested when they give rise to a future economic benefit.
the appropriateness of cost capitalised for each significant project with reference tosupporting documentation including invoices and cash payments.
Project costs are typically capitalised following the approval of a pre-feasibility study and amounts relating to pre-feasibility activities are expensed.
Capital additions to plant, property and equipment totalled $1.6bn in the year, principally comprising $0.7bn of ongoing development expenditure at Antucoya, $0.5bn at Centinela, $0.2bn at Pelambres and $0.1bn of costs capitalised in respect of projects where pre-feasibility studies have been approved and the projects are atthe feasibility stage.
There is a risk of inappropriate categorisation of expenditure between operating expenditure and capital expenditure in each of these areas.
104 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We met with managements external experts, JRI and Proust, providing closure The recognition and measurement of restoration and cost estimates for the Groups operations.
We challenged their estimates on key decommissioning provisions forecast cash flow assumptions, including the future plans for decommissioning Restoration and decommissioning provisions of $433m are calculated using a rehabilitation activity, future estimated costs, inflation rates, exchange rates, and number of different assumptions, many of which require judgement, for example also the discount rates applied to determine net present values.
the required scope of work, projected costs, discount rates, exchange rates We evaluated the technical competence, experience, independence and objectivity and inflation.
of the external experts as required by auditing standards and we reviewed the These estimates are subject to regular internal re-evaluation, with external experts updated base case data that was submitted by the Group to the Chilean National engaged on a periodic basis.
In 2014, external experts were engaged to advise on Geology and Mining Service along with the supporting evidence to confirm closure cost estimates at Los Pelambres, Centinela, Michilla and Antucoya.
consistency with the closure cost estimates.
During the year, the net movement in decommissioning and restoration provisions In addition we also: was $60m refer to note 27.
The change in restoration estimates forms part of audited the classification of closure provisions between decommissioning and the overall $7m credit in the profit and loss account relating to provisions, with rehabilitation: and assessed the appropriateness of the related accounting entries: other movements reflecting foreign exchange movements and the unwind of discounting.
audited the computation of the discount unwind and amortisation of the decommissioning asset: and The decrease in decommissioning provisions was $48m refer to note 13 and note 27. reviewed the consistency of application of the closure provision policies and procedures throughout the Group.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with AT THE PARENT ENTITY LEVEL WE ALSO the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee TESTED THE CONSOLIDATION PROCESS discussed on page 80.
The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits that Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to team member visits the component auditors in Chile at least three express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
In addition, the Group audit team undertook site visits on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the tooperating assets in November 2014 and February 2015. risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BYTHE COMPANIES ACT 2006 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY In our opinion: We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has financial statements that makes it probable that the economic been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or 2006: and influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements We determined materiality for the group to be $75 million areprepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.25 million TOREPORT BY EXCEPTION 2013$2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records.
inour view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, assessing overall presentation of the financial statements.
inour opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT for our audit: or As in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused primarily on adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent the audit work at Los Pelambres, Michilla, Antucoya, Antofagasta Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Minerals, Ferrocaril Antofagasta a Bolivia, and Aguas fide Antofagasta from branches not visited by us: or S. A. being the Groups principal components.
These were subject the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with to a full audit at component materiality, which is lower than Group the accounting records and returns.
materiality, and represent over 99% of the Groups profit before tax, all of the Groups revenue and substantially all of the Groups net We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
The range of materialities applied for the remaining principal components ranged between $2m and $71m.
Antofagasta plc | 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part for Auditors.
ofthe Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance UKand Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN standards review team and independent partner reviews.
THE ANNUAL REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Report is: in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone statements: or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL otherwise misleading.
STATEMENTS In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual assurance that the financial statements are free from material Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness inconsistencies or misleading statements.
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
JAMES LEIGH Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 16 March 2015 106 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
