Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Overview: Our opinion Materiality In our opinion, the Group financial statements dened below: Overall group materiality: 215 million which represents 4% give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at of profit before tax, adding back certain non-recurring items.
31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash ows for the Audit scope year then ended: Our audit included full scope audits of 24 reporting components have been properly prepared in accordance with International with specic audit procedures performed at a further 32 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the reporting components.
European Union: and Taken together, the components at which audit work was have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of performed accounted for 68% of consolidated revenue and 74% the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of consolidated profit before tax and covered all components that individually contributed more than 2% of revenue and profit Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB before tax.
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Areas of focus the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US Accounting Standards Board the IASB.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs Transformation of the Groups finance processes as issued by the IASB.
Potential implications of alleged illegal acts What we have audited Litigation GlaxoSmithKline plcs Group financial statements comprise: Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2014: Uncertain tax positions the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and the consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended: assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Group financial and statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant include a summary of significant accounting policies and other accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and explanatory information.
considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was preparation of the Group financial statements comprises evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
For each area of focus below, where appropriate, we evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key internal controls over financial reporting, including testing the operation of IT systems from which financial information is generated.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
GSK Annual Report 2014 131 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Groups Refer to Note 3 in the Group financial statements stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party data related to patient enrolment in US government funded benefit schemes The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall under and historical levels of product returns.
certain commercial and government mandated contracts and reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant are We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, Medicaid and Medicare.
The Group also provides a right of return to its discounts, allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current customers for certain products.
We also considered the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous years, including an evaluation of releases of accruals These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving at in 2014 following payments or settlements with US state authorities.
turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide customers with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of return, which for We formed an independent expectation of the largest elements of the unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual.
accrual at 31 December 2014 using third party data and compared this expectation to the actual accrual recognised by the Group.
In undertaking We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and this work, we considered the impact of the decrease in revenue for certain returns arrangements are complex and because establishing an respiratory products, principally Advair, and relevant changes in pricing appropriate accrual requires significant judgement and estimation by and billing arrangements in 2015 with commercial and government the Directors.
The Directors have determined an accrual of 1.3 billion healthcare providers.
to be necessary at 31 December 2014.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
Transformation of the Groups finance processes We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at The Group continues to rationalise and simplify its finance processes BPOs and BSCs, which consisted of controls and substantive testing, including the roll-out of an enterprise-wide resource planning system and conducted oversight visits to all of the BSC and BPO sites in Group ERP through Core Business Services.
In addition, financial transaction audit scope namely India, Malaysia, the US and the UK to direct the work processes have continued to migrate to third party business process performed.
outsourcing locations BPOs and related accounting services have We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key been centralised at in-house business service centres BSCs.
automated and manual controls both before and after the migration to the These changes represent a financial reporting risk while migrations are centralised processing environment, including IT general controls and controls happening as controls and processes that have been established and in respect of data migration between ERP systems.
We also substantively embedded over a number of years are updated and migrated into the tested the accuracy and completeness of data migration into the new ERP new ERP environment.
There is an increased risk of breakdown in along with the controls over this process and we did not note any significant internal financial controls during the transition and an increased risk of exceptions.
inaccurate or incomplete migration of financial data, which would in turn increase risk of material misstatements in the Group financial statements.
Potential implications of alleged illegal acts We inspected the ruling from the Changsha Intermediate Peoples Court Refer to Notes 3 and 45 in the Group financial statements in Hunan Province, China in respect of the allegations of bribery in China.
We validated that the amounts paid in the final settlement of this liability We incorporated this risk as an area of focus in our 2013 audit as a were consistent with the ruling.
result of allegations of illegal acts carried out by the Groups Chinese Pharmaceuticals business.
In addition, the Group is conducting Using our specialist forensic knowledge, we independently assessed the investigations in a number of other markets.
The Group has continued to scope and findings of the investigative work performed by the Groups co-operate with enquiries by the Department of Justice DoJ in the US external legal counsel in respect of the allegations in China.
We considered and by the Serious Fraud Ofce SFO in the UK.
The SFO announced the output of this assessment in determining our audit approach.
We met with in 2014 that it had commenced a criminal investigation into the Groups the component audit team in Shanghai, China to understand and evaluate the commercial practices.
In addition, the Group announced in 2014 that it steps taken by the Group to address the allegations.
had paid a 301 million ne to the Chinese government in connection We met with the Directors, management, in-house legal counsel and the with these allegations.
Groups external advisors to assess the risk of occurrence of similar acts We focused on the following risks, which might have a material impact outside of China, the status of ongoing investigations and the potential for on the Group financial statements: further fines and penalties.
This included understanding and evaluating the That illegal acts similar to those previously alleged in China have Groups internal investigations processes, which consider risks and occurred elsewhere in the Group: and allegations reported through various channels including whistle-blowing That further fines and penalties might be forthcoming in respect of hotlines.
We also evaluated the enhancements and changes that have been ongoing investigations into the Groups commercial practices that made to other control processes and business practices since 2013. could give rise to the need for additional provisions or asset To supplement these centralised procedures, we selected 15 territories impairments outside of China.
including certain markets not otherwise included in Group audit scope where the country-specic risk of corruption and bribery was deemed high.
For these territories, we obtained specic reporting from the component audit teams to provide us with evidence that each had appropriately designed and performed audit procedures to address the audit risk that the Group financial statements might be materially misstated due to the potential financial impact of illegal acts.
We discussed the status of investigations opened by the DoJ and SFO with the Audit & Risk Committee, the Board of Directors, management and in-house general counsel.
In addition, we engaged directly with the Groups external advisors to corroborate our understanding.
We were satisfied with the Groups provisioning decisions at 31 December 2014 and with the adequacy of disclosures given the status of these investigations.
132 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential litigation Refer to Notes 3 and 45 in the Group financial statements with in-house legal counsel.
We obtained and substantively tested evidence to support the decisions and rationale for provisions held or The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases decisions not to recognise provisions, including correspondence with legal inherent litigation risk.
The Group is engaged in a number of legal counsel and other counter-parties to litigation.
We also monitored and actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private considered external information sources to identify potential legal actions.
litigation, of which the most significant are disclosed in Note 45.
We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is uncertain based on product litigation history and other available evidence to and the positions taken by the Directors are based on the application challenge the valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised of material judgement and estimation.
Accordingly, unexpected adverse by the Group.
We obtained conrmations from external legal counsel to outcomes could signicantly impact the Groups reported profit and confirm our understanding of settled and outstanding litigation and balance sheet position.
We evaluated significant adjustments to legal reserves At 31 December 2014, the Group held provisions of 520 million in recorded during the year to determine if they were indicative of respect of legal actions.
As disclosed in Note 45 to the Group financial statements, the eventual outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the outcome of future events and therefore the position taken by the Group is inherently judgemental.
We found that in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole the judgements made by management were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these provisions and contingent liabilities were appropriate.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Leveraging our specialist valuations knowledge, we obtained the Groups Refer to Notes 18 and 19 in the Group financial statements impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including profit and cash ow growth, terminal values, the impact of the The Group has 7.8 billion of intangible assets, including significant expiry of patents, potential product obsolescence and the selection of licenses, patents and acquired brands, and 3.6 billion of goodwill at discount rates.
We challenged management to substantiate its 31 December 2014.
The Group recognised impairments of intangible assumptions, including comparing relevant assumptions to industry and assets totalling 157 million during the year.
We have focused on acquired intangible assets, as these are the most We interrogated the integrity of supporting calculations and we significant individually and in aggregate, and a number have indefinite corroborated certain information with third party sources, including lives.
The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of expectations of performance of certain assets and components of the acquisitions.
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain on future cash ows and there is risk that if these cash ows do not the impact of reasonably possible changes and we performed our own meet the Groups expectations that the assets will be impaired.
The independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes impairment reviews performed by the Group contain a number of to managements models required to result in impairment, focusing in significant judgements and estimates including revenue growth, the particular on Emerging Markets which is more sensitive to change than success of new product launches, profit margins, cash conversion and the other CGUs.
Changes in these assumptions might lead to a change in the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill.
The risk is greater As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of impairment for the US and Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines cash recognised in 2014 was appropriate.
For those intangible assets, including generating units CGUs where valuation headroom compared to goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required, carrying value is lower than in previous years.
we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any additional material impairment was necessary.
Uncertain tax positions Using our specialist UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing Refer to Note 14 in the Group financial statements knowledge, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
This includes obtaining and there are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and overseas evaluating certain third party tax opinions that the Group has obtained to tax authorities.
In addition, from time to time the Group enters into assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used, including in respect transactions with complicated accounting and tax consequences.
of steps taken in advance of the proposed three-part transaction with Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions required in Novartis AG.
respect of uncertain tax positions.
At 31 December 2014, the Group has recognised provisions for uncertain tax provisions, offset by current In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we considered tax assets, included within the current tax payable of 945 million the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, the 2013 1,452 million.
outturn of previous claims, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outturns is broad.
GSK Annual Report 2014 133 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report continued How we tailored the audit scope Further specic audit procedures over central functions, the In identifying these areas of focus, we tailored the scope of our Group consolidation and areas of significant judgement including audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give taxation, goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole, taking benets, litigation and the elimination of unrealised intercompany into account the geographic structure of the Group, the profit in inventory were directly led by the Group audit team.
accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed Group operates.
our audit work accounted for 68% of consolidated revenue and The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 400 74% of consolidated profit before tax.
This was before considering reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component.
the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work We identied 24 reporting units that, in our view, required an at the divisional and Group levels, including testing of monitoring audit of their complete financial information due to their size controls and disaggregated analytical review procedures, which or risk characteristics.
Specic audit procedures over significant covers a significant portion of the Groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit balances and transactions were performed at a further 32 scope.
In addition, we obtained audit evidence over certain reporting units to give appropriate coverage of all material out-of-scope components through the procedures we undertook balances.
Where these reporting units are supported by shared at the Groups shared service centres, encompassing BPOs and financial service centres, these centres were also included in BSCs, and over centralised IT infrastructure where these Group audit scope.
None of the reporting units not included processes are standardised.
in our Group audit scope individually contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue or profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of Where the work was performed by component auditors, materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to audit work at those reporting units.
As a result, eight overseas determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and components were visited by senior members of the Group audit extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of team, including all of the Groups significant components in the US misstatements, both individually and on the Group financial which are visited at least annually alongside Belgium, China, statements as a whole.
In addition, each of the five shared service centres supporting reporting components in Group audit Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality scope was visited.
For those components in Group audit scope for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows: where a site visit was not undertaken, our involvement included review of component auditor work papers and attendance at certain component audit clearance meetings.
Overall group materiality 215 million 2013 332 million 4% of profit before tax 2,968 million adding back non-recurring items including the How we determined it remeasurement charge for the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration 768 million, major restructuring costs 755 million, legal costs including the ne paid in China 548 million, items of income and expense relating to major acquisition and disposal activity net 8 million, incremental costs of the change in timing of recognition of the US Branded Prescription Drug Fee 115 million and impairment of intangible assets 157 million.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings comprises core results, which adds back to statutory results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in one-off items.
We have taken this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we have not adjusted profit before tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain other smaller non-core items as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
Materiality is lower than last year primarily due to the effect of lower profitability in 2014.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements above 10 million 2013 10 million identied during our audit as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Other required reporting Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors Consistency of other information statement, set out on page 130, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group financial statements the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern Report for the financial year for which the Group financial basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial in operation, and that the Directors intend for it to do so, for at least statements: and one year from the date the Group financial statements are signed.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement As part of our audit, we have concluded that the Directors use of set out on pages 78 to 95 with respect to internal control and the going concern basis is appropriate.
risk management systems and about share capital structures However, because not all future events or conditions can be is consistent with the Group financial statements.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
134 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information ISAs UK & Ireland reporting information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group nanical statements: or to report arising from this - apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in responsibility.
the course of performing our audit: or - otherwise misleading the statement given by the Directors on page 130 in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions Code the Code that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to report arising from this provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is responsibility.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 86, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of information and explanations received the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to by the Directors: and you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information the overall presentation of the Group financial statements.
and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own Directors remuneration judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Group financial Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to statements.
you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to We test and examine information, using sampling and other report arising from this responsibility.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Corporate governance statement audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of substantive procedures or a combination of both.
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the our review.
audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement has not been performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material prepared by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to report misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial statements Other matters and the audit We have reported separately on the parent company financial Our responsibilities and those of the Directors statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 As explained more fully in the Directors statement of December 2014 and on the information in the Directors responsibilities set out on page 130, the Directors are responsible Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group name should not be stated.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and London only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with 26 February 2015 Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Notes: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
a The maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried What an audit of financial statements involves out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility disclosures in the Group financial statements sufficient to give for any changes that may have occurred to the Group financial reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are statements since they were initially presented on the website.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups legislation in other jurisdictions.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: GSK Annual Report 2014 135
