Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Independent auditor's report to the members of Rightmove plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit of individual contract terms and that revenue is the most material figure in the financial statements, we consider a 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is significant risk exists in relation to revenue recognition: unmodified specifically that the billing of customers is in line with the We have audited the financial statements of Rightmove plc appropriate contract, with resulting revenue recognised for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 70 appropriately, and that membership incentives are to 107.
In our opinion: recognised in the period to which they relate.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Our response: Our audit procedures included testing the of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at design, implementation and operating effectiveness, of the 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year Groups controls over the billing of customers in line with then ended: contract terms and product usage.
For Agency and New the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Homes, which are the most significant revenue streams, in accordance with International Financial Reporting we performed detailed procedures using computer assisted Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as audit techniques to analyse the amounts billed to customers adopted by the EU : by product in order to identify trends and investigate any the parent Company financial statements have been anomalies and outliers.
We considered whether amounts properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by billed had been recognised as revenue appropriately by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of comparing the period of subscription or usage of additional the Companies Act 2006: and advertising products to the timing of revenue recognition.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance We inspected significant contracts signed in the year on with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as a sample basis, to assess whether revenue has been regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS recognised in accordance with the specific contract terms Regulation.
and conditions and relevant accounting standards.
For new membership offers operated during the year, we challenged 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the estimates applied in calculating the impact of discounts We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that or free periods by inspecting details of the membership had the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit procedures contracts and subscription numbers for the year.
to address those risks and our findings from those We assessed the appropriateness of deferred revenue at procedures in order that the Companys members as a body the period end with reference to subscription fee billings may better understand the process by which we arrived at in December and specific product deferrals, where our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures amounts are billed in advance but revenue recognition undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of our deferred until use or expiry.
We also considered the statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole adequacy of the Groups accounting policy and disclosures and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do see Notes 1, 2 and 5 in respect of revenue recognition, not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the and whether disclosures properly reflect the risks inherent financial statements.
Our findings: Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the Revenue recognition 167,012,000 design and operation of controls that would have required Refer to page 33 Corporate governance report, page 81 us to expand the extent of our planned detailed testing.
accounting policy and pages 84 to 86 financial disclosures Our computer assisted audit techniques did not reveal any The risk: Revenue primarily consists of subscription fees unexplained differences and we found that revenue was and customer spend on additional advertising products recognised in line with the period of subscription or usage of in respect of properties listed on rightmove.
co. uk and is additional products.
We found that revenue was recognised recognised over the period of subscription or as additional in respect of the significant contracts selected for testing in advertising products are used.
Individual contracts exist line with the underlying contractual terms and we found no with each customer, which include a variety of differing errors in the Groups calculation of deferred revenue at the terms and conditions.
In addition, Rightmove operate a year end.
We found the groups disclosures to be number of membership offers during the year, some of proportionate in their description of the assumptions which include discounted or free periods.
Given the variety and estimates made by the group.
Rightmove plc annual report 2014 67 Governance | Independent auditor's report to the members of Rightmove plc only continued Share-based incentives and related deferred tax 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of charge and asset 2,728,000, 1,114,000 and the scope of our audit 4,224,000 respectively The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole Refer to page 33 Corporate governance report, pages 80 was set at 5.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark to 82 accounting policy and pages 94 to 95: 100 to 104 of Group profit before tax of which it represents 4.75%.
We report to the Audit Committee all uncorrected The risk: The Group provides share-based incentive plans misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in allowing executive directors and other selected senior excess of 0.29m, in addition to other audit misstatements management to acquire shares in the parent Company.
below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on Significant focus is placed upon the share-based incentive qualitative grounds.
We report misstatements corrected by charge for the year in the Annual Report, specifically on the management where we believe these will assist the audit face of the Income Statement.
Each scheme differs based committee in fulfilling its governance responsibilities.
on the terms of the scheme and different schemes have The Group audit team also audits the single wholly owned varying levels of complexity.
The choice of valuation subsidiary, Rightmove Group Limited with a component methodology and certain of the key inputs used to calculate materiality of 5.0m.
The Group procedures covered all of the total charge to be recognised for new grants, specifically the operations of the Group, and accordingly 100% of total the leaver assumptions and performance conditions, require Group revenue: 100% of Group profit before taxation and significant estimation and judgement in their selection, and 100% of total Group assets were audited.
impact on the derived fair value, charge and related deferred tax balances.
As such they are key judgemental areas that 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the our audit concentrated on.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Our response: In this area our audit procedures included In our opinion: evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Group to value new schemes in the year and to estimate audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the number of shares that will eventually be issued.
For key Companies Act 2006: inputs we critically assessed the reasonableness of the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Groups assumptions by reference to external data and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial historical trends, along with reports from the Groups statements are prepared is consistent with the financial external consultants.
In addition, we used our own tax statements: and specialists to consider the accuracy of the related deferred the information given in the corporate governance tax charge and asset for the year.
We also assessed statement set out on pages 34 to 35 with respect to internal whether the Groups disclosures in these areas see Note control and risk management systems in relation to financial 16 and Note 24 are appropriate.
reporting processes and about share capital structures is Our findings: We found the assumptions and resulting consistent with the financial statements.
estimates used in the valuation models to be mildly cautious in respect of leavers and otherwise balanced and we found no errors in the calculation of the related deferred tax charge and asset.
We found the Groups disclosures to be proportionate in their description of the assumptions and estimates made by the Group and the sensitivity of the share-based payments charge to changes in those assumptions and estimates.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the Scope of report and responsibilities matters on which we are required to report As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities by exception Statement set out on page 40, the directors are responsible Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you for the preparation of the financial statements and for being if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of have identified other information in the annual report that the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge Reporting Councils website at www.
uk or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the or that is otherwise misleading.
Companys members as a body and subject to important In particular, we are required to report to you if: explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, we have identified material inconsistencies between the published on our website at www.
com uk knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this statement that they consider that the annual report and report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have understandable and provides the information necessary undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Karen Wightman Senior Statutory Auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Chartered Accountants been received from branches not visited by us: or Altius House the parent Company financial statements and the part of the One North Fourth Street Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Milton Keynes agreement with the accounting records and returns: or MK9 1NE certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by 27 February 2015 law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 26 to 31 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
