FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of Opinion on financial statements of Anglo American plc the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the In our opinion: European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Groups loss for the year then ended: Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Going concern European Union: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors report onpage 212 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and UK GAAP : and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the agoing concern.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the accounting policies, the related notes 1 to 39 and the balance sheet of the parent company and related information.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairments notes 1 and 6 As a consequence of the current volatility in We challenged managements assessment as to whether indicators of impairment exist for specific commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, the assets.
Where such indicators were identified, specifically in relation to the Minas-Rio project and the assessment of the recoverable amount of operating mines within the Coal segment, we obtained copies of the valuation models used to determine the assets and development projects is a key judgement.
value in use or fair value less costs of disposal of the relevant asset.
We challenged the assumptions This includes specifically the Minas-Rio project made by management in relation to these models, including the discount rate used, the short-term within the Iron Ore and Manganese segment where and long-term commodity prices, capital expenditure and operating cost forecasts and the expected a post-tax impairment of $3.5 billion has been production profiles, by comparison to recent third party forecast commodity price data, reference to recorded and the mines within the Coal segment third party documentation where available, review of reserves and resources reports, consultation where a post-tax impairment of $0.3 billion has with operational management and consideration of sensitivity analyses.
We assessed whether the been recorded.
assumptions had been determined and applied on a consistent basis across the Group.
Taxation notes 1, 8 and 21 The assessment of the Groups taxation exposures in We reviewed all potential taxation exposures within the Group and, through discussions with the all jurisdictions is a key area of judgement particularly Groups tax department, the tax specialists within the audit team and review of relevant with respect to transfer pricing arrangements and the documentation, we assessed the appropriateness of the provisions raised.
appropriateness of the recognition of deferred We considered, in the context of our tax specialists prior experience of similar issues, the Groups taxation assets.
transfer pricing arrangements and deferred taxation assets and liabilities to confirm that they are reasonable.
Special items and remeasurements note 6 The assessment of the appropriateness of items We considered and challenged each item disclosed within special items and remeasurements as disclosed within special items and remeasurements defined in note 6 to the financial statements.
We determined, through examination of the audit is a key judgement because of their impact upon evidence obtained relating to the underlying transactions and discussion with management, whether theunderlying financial performance achieved by such categorisation is appropriate and consistent with the Groups stated policy and past practice for theGroup.
recognition of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the income statement is fair and balanced in its presentation.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 42.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
110 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Corporate Governance Statement Our application of materiality Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use report arising from our review.
materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required We determined planning materiality for the Group to be $225 million to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 2013:$250 million, which is below 5% 2013: 5% of pre-tax profit before special items and remeasurements, and below 1% 2013: 1% of equity.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Pre-tax profit is normalised for the materiality calculation to exclude special statements: or items including impairments, remeasurements and other one off items that apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our are audited separately and would, if included, significantly distort the knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or materiality calculation year on year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $10 million 2013: $10 million, as well as In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and judgements in the financial statement that we identified when assessing the understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those overall presentation of the financial statements.
matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such An overview of the scope of our audit inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to All business units were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with Manganese where specific audit procedures were performed.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal location of each significant Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards business unit at least once every year and key operational assets on a Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on rotatingbasis.
Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional Act2006 standards review team and independent partner reviews.
In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys with the financial statements.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Matters on which we are required to report by exception have formed.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures opinion: inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused audit: or byfraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the visited by us: or directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report accounting records and returns.
toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
ormaterially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course Directors remuneration ofperforming the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Carl D. Hughes MA, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 12 February 2015 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 111
