Governance Independent Auditors report To the Members of Keller Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Goodwill 1.
Our opinion on financial statements is unmodified Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, page 73 accounting policy We have audited the financial statements of Keller Group plc for the and pages 80 to 81 financial statements disclosures.
year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income The risk: There is a risk of impairment of the Groups significant goodwill Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the balances due to prolonged downturn or structural change in the relevant Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement construction market.
In particular there is increased risk on the balance of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and related of 12.1m related to Keller Limited in the UK where large infrastructure notes.
In our opinion: projects have come to an end, and there is less certainty as to the source the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups of future revenue and profit, and on the 64.9m relating to Keller Canada and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the where the oil sands business is currently experiencing a downturn in Groups loss for the year then ended: investment.
The Group estimates recoverable amount based on value in the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance use which includes significant estimation and judgement in the selection with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the of key inputs, specifically revenue, margin and discount rates.
European Union: Our response: Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in Groups impairment assessment for each significant goodwill balance at year accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and end, including in particular Keller Limited in the UK and Keller Canada.
For the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the key inputs referred to above we critically assessed the reasonableness requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group of the Groups assumptions by reference to past performance, external data financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and forecasts for economic factors, and current order book.
Our valuation specialists assisted in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement underlying the discount rates adopted by the Group.
We considered the In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks sensitivity of key inputs to reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
We of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the as follows: outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Accounting for construction contracts Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, page 73 accounting policy 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of and pages 77 and 83 financial statement disclosures.
our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 3.9m The risk: Revenue on construction contracts is recognised in proportion determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, to the stage of completion of the contract.
The stage of completion is normalized to exclude this years exceptional items as disclosed on the face of calculated by comparing the costs incurred up to the balance sheet date the income statement.
Materiality represents 4.6% of Group profit before with the total forecast costs at completion of the contract.
Contract tax and exceptional items as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
accounting is considered to be an ongoing significant audit risk to the Group as it requires a high degree of estimation and judgement of matters such as: We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified the percentage of work completed at the balance sheet date on longer term misstatements exceeding 0.2m, in addition to other identified misstatements contracts: the costs of the work required to complete the contract: and the that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
outcome of claims and variations raised against customers and claims raised against the Group by customers or third parties, including one significant Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component historic claim that was settled post year end and is disclosed as an auditors at the key reporting components, including North America, EMEA, exceptional item in the accounts.
Error in any of these judgements could Asia and Australia.
The components within the scope of our work result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss recognised to accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: date and therefore also in the current period.
Our response: Our audit procedures included testing controls over Group revenue 90% contract related expenditure and assessing a selection of contracts with the Group profit and loss 94% greatest impact on the Groups financial results, including those considered Group profit and loss before exceptional items and taxation 93% to be high risk due to such factors as known issues on the contract or the Group total assets 84% nature of work being undertaken.
For a selection of contracts in progress at The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant the balance sheet date, we challenged the Groups assumptions on costs to areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the complete the contract through agreeing cost estimates to sub-contracts and information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the assessing the Groups historical experience of costs on similar contracts.
For component materialities, which ranged from 0.2m to 3.25m, having contracts completed by the year end, we confirmed subsequent settlement regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the of revenue recognised.
In respect of claims and variations raised against components.
Aside from the audit of the parent company that was customers and those claims raised against the Group by customers or third performed by the Group audit team, the work on all of the components parties, on a selection of contracts we: challenged the progress on the claims was performed by the component auditors, and none by the Group with the Group and corroborated explanations provided: considered prior audit team.
experience on settlement of claims and variations: inspected correspondence with the counterparty and with the Groups legal advisers or insurers, to identify the extent of written agreement of settlement: and confirmed recoveries to after year-end settlement where applicable.
In respect of the significant historic claim that was settled post year end we have: held discussions with the Groups directors and challenged their judgements on the expected settlement costs, corroborating to the settlement agreement or other appropriate evidence, inspected correspondence with the Groups advisers: and considered the adequacy of disclosure of the matter, including of the related uncertainties.
64 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements The Group audit team visited the four divisional component locations Scope and responsibilities in North America, EMEA, Asia and Australia.
Telephone conference As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set meetings were also held with these component auditors and one country out on page 63, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the component, the United Kingdom.
At these visits and meetings, the findings financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, 2006 is unmodified which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be In our opinion: read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and William Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent Chartered Accountants with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 2 March 2015 Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the part of the Corporate Governance Report dealing with the Audit Committee on pages 46 and 47 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 63 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 65
