Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Spectris plc only Opinions and conclusions Due to the inherent uncertainty involved In respect of inventory provisions each in forecasting and discounting future cash operating company in the Group is required arising from our audit flows, which are the basis of the assessment to apply a methodology to calculate an 1.
Our opinion on the Financial of recoverability, this is one of the key inventory provision that the Group feels Statements is unmodified judgemental areas that our audit is is appropriate to the specific business.
We have audited the Financial Statements of concentrated on to address the risk that the In respect of trade receivables the Groups Spectris plc for the year ended 31 December key assumptions, estimates and judgements credit risk policy requires full provision to be 2014 which comprise the Consolidated on which the calculations are based are made against all trade receivables that are Income Statement, the Consolidated inappropriate and that goodwill and other over 120 days past due.
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the intangible assets are overstated as a result.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, The level of judgement involved in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Our response: determining whether a provision should be Position, the Consolidated Statement of recognised and how it should be measured, Our audit procedures included using our Cash Flows, the Parent Company Balance coupled with the fact that provision own valuation specialists to assist us in Sheet and the related notes.
In our opinion: movements impact earnings, results in evaluating the Groups key assumptions working capital provisions being one of the Financial Statements give a true and and methodologies, in particular those the key judgemental areas that our audit fair view of the state of the Groups and related to more recent acquisitions or where is concentrated on.
of the Parent Companys affairs as at recent performance has been lower than 31 December 2014 and of the Groups our expectation.
Our response: profit for the year then ended: We critically assessed the Groups In respect of inventory provisions our the Group Financial Statements have been assumptions using publically available data audit procedures included considering properly prepared in accordance with as well as our own assessments in relation the appropriateness of the Groups International Financial Reporting Standards to key inputs such as projected growth methodology used in the context of our as adopted by the European Union IFRS rates, discount rates, margins, profit to understanding of the individual businesses as adopted by the EU : cash conversion, cost inflation and foreign in the Group with reference to the ageing exchange.
We applied sensitivities to the the Parent Company Financial Statements and nature of inventory, past usage, assumptions used by the Group in its have been properly prepared in accordance forecast future usage, observing physical impairment models: this included a with UK Accounting Standards: and inventory counts, economic conditions consideration of the historical accuracy and new product launches and technology.
the Financial Statements have been of the Groups forecasting.
We compared the methodology and prepared in accordance with the To sense check, we compared the sum assumptions used in calculating the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 of the discounted cash flows to the inventory provision to those used in and, as regards the Group Financial Groups market capitalisation to assess prior years: as part of this we considered Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the reasonableness of those cash flows.
whether we would expect a change to For more recent acquisitions we compared the methodology and assumptions used.
Our assessment of risks actual results post acquisition to the We also considered the historical accuracy of material misstatement results in the business case supporting of provisions made by the Group by In arriving at our audit opinion above on the transaction.
examining the reversal of previously the Group Financial Statements the risks of recorded provisions.
material misstatement that had the greatest We also assessed whether the Groups effect on our Group audit were as follows: disclosures see Note 11 about the In respect of trade receivable provisions our sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment audit procedures included considering the Recoverability of goodwill and assessment to changes in key assumptions appropriateness of the provisions recorded other intangible assets properly reflected the risks.
against trade receivable balances and the Refer to page 53 Audit and Risk Committee appropriateness of the Groups provisioning Report, page 84 accounting policy and Working capital provisions policy, with reference to the ageing of page 99 financial disclosures.
Refer to page 54 Audit and Risk Committee customer balances, past history of recovery, Report, pages 85 and 86 accounting policy economic conditions and the concentration The risk: and page 104 financial disclosures.
The Groups cash-generating units We also considered the adequacy of the The risk: operate across a broad range of markets, Groups disclosures in respect of working products and geographies.
The assessment The Group has significant inventory and capital provisions.
of the recoverability of the goodwill and trade receivable balances and the Directors other intangible assets attributable to these have to apply judgement to assess the cash-generating units is reliant on the level of provisions required to write down forecast future performance of the Group slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory across these areas.
items to their net realisable value and to write down the value of trade receivables to their recoverable amounts.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Independent Auditors Report continued tax provisions Our response: We used our own valuation specialists to Refer to page 54 Audit and Risk Committee the extent necessary to assist us in critically Our audit procedures included challenging Report, page 86 accounting policy and challenging the key valuation assumptions the Groups basis for recognising and page 96 financial disclosures.
This included measuring provisions with reference to the comparison against industry norms, and latest available corroborative information, The risk: consideration of the reasonableness of selected third party confirmations and in assumptions underlying the identification Governmental challenge of transfer pricing light of our understanding of the business of separately identifiable intangible assets may result in tax exposures and potential gained throughout the audit process.
and associated revenue growth rates used interest and penalties.
Provisions for tax In addition, we assessed completeness of in the forecasts, and their useful economic exposures relating to open tax years are provisions through review of legal expenses lives together with considering what is subject to management judgement and and discussion with the Groups internal represented by residual goodwill.
In respect of contingent consideration our This is one of the key judgemental areas We also assessed whether the Groups work was focussed on the forecast results that our audit is concentrated on due to disclosures about provisions and the of the acquired businesses which is the the Group operating in a number of tax movements in the year were appropriate.
basis for the estimate of the contingent jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer consideration liability.
The key assumptions pricing and other international tax Acquisition accounting underlying those forecasts were compared legislation and the time taken for tax Refer to page 53 Audit and Risk Committee with the Groups planned development of matters to be agreed with the tax Report, page 84 accounting policy and the business and also the historical trading authorities.
Movements in tax provisions page 114 financial disclosures.
performance of the acquired operation, impact earnings.
results since the acquisition date and order The risk: book at year end.
Our response: During the year the Group completed the In respect to disputed purchase price Our audit procedures included the use acquisitions of Affinity Biosensors LLC, adjustments, we critically challenged the of our own international and local tax MicroCal, Sudo Engineering, Fibersensing, assumptions used in assessing the expected specialists to assess the Groups tax La Corporation Scientifique Claisse and recoverable amount from the seller with positions and to read its correspondence Engineering Seismology Group, for a total reference to the purchase agreement, past with the relevant tax authorities to analyse consideration of 103.8m.
experience history, discussion with the and challenge the assumptions used to Groups internal legal counsel and review determine tax provisions based on our There is significant judgement involved in of correspondence with the Groups knowledge and experiences of the determining the fair value of the identifiable external legal counsel where relevant.
application of the international and local assets and liabilities acquired given the legislation by the relevant authorities specialised nature of the acquired We also considered the adequacy of the and courts.
businesses and associated technological, Groups disclosures see Note 24 with customer and marketing related intangibles.
respect to the acquisitions, purchase price We have also considered the adequacy adjustments and contingent consideration.
of the Groups disclosures in respect Contingent consideration of 11.6m in of tax and uncertain tax positions.
respect of current year acquisitions has 3.
Our application of materiality and been recognised and is payable on the an overview of the scope of our audit Other provisions including product achievement of future sales targets.
Given The materiality for the Group Financial warranty, legal and divestment related the uncertainty regarding achievement Statements as a whole was set at 11.0m.
Refer to page 54 Audit and Risk Committee of these targets, significant judgement is This has been determined with reference Report, page 86 accounting policy and required in measuring the fair value of the to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, page 104 financial disclosures.
Groups contingent consideration obligation which we consider to be one of the principal both at the acquisition date and at the considerations for members of the Company The risk: balance sheet date.
in assessing the financial performance of the Provisions are recorded based on the Purchase price adjustments can be disputed Group.
Materiality represents 6% of Group Directors best estimate of the Groups by the seller and, therefore, can require profit before tax as disclosed on the face ultimate liability to settle an obligation.
judgement in determining the expected of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Like other companies in this sector, events settlement amount.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk that have led to claims in the past include Committee to report to it all corrected product performance, commercial Our response: and uncorrected misstatements we disputes, alleged patent infringements Our audit procedures included the identified through our audit with a value and divestments.
inspection of the Groups valuation analysis, in excess of 0.4m, in addition to other The level of judgement involved in which included reading the independent identified misstatements below that determining whether the recognition external valuation reports, for the threshold that we believe warranted criteria for provisions are met and then acquisitions of MicroCal, Affinity Biosensors reporting on qualitative grounds.
in calculating the best estimate, coupled LLC, La Corporation Scientifique Claisse with the fact provision movements and Engineering Seismology Group, and impact earnings, results in other provisions the internal valuation reports for the other being one of the key judgemental areas two acquisitions, which were used as that our audit is concentrated on.
the basis for the determination of the fair value of the intangible assets.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 76 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Independent Auditors Report continued Audits for Group reporting purposes were 4.
Our opinion on other matters Under the Listing Rules we are required performed at key reporting components prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 to review: in the following countries: Australia, China, is unmodified the Directors statement, set out on Denmark, France, Germany, the Netherlands, In our opinion: page 57, in relation to going concern: and Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the the part of the Directors Remuneration United Kingdom and the USA.
In addition, the part of the Corporate Governance Report to be audited has been properly specified audit procedures were performed Report on page 59 relating to the prepared in accordance with the Companies by the Group audit team over other reporting Companys compliance with the ten Act 2006: and components as part of the audit for Group provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate reporting purposes.
These other reporting the information given in the Strategic Governance Code specified for our review.
components, typically smaller in size, were Report and Directors Report for the We have nothing to report in respect selected at short notice to give an element of financial year for which the Financial of the above responsibilities.
unpredictability in our overall scope of work.
Statements are prepared is consistent with In aggregate our audit procedures covered the Financial Statements.
Scope of report and 69% of total Group revenue: 81% of Group profit before tax: and 68% of total Group 5.
We have nothing to report in respect responsibilities assets.
The segment disclosure in Note 3 of the matters on which we are required As explained more fully in the Directors sets out the individual significance of a to report by exception Responsibilities Statement set out on specific country.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required page 58, the Directors are responsible for to report to you if, based on the knowledge the preparation of the Financial Statements The remaining 31% of total Group revenue, we acquired during our audit, we have and for being satisfied that they give a true 19% of Group profit before tax and 32% of identified other information in the Annual and fair view.
A description of the scope of total Group assets is represented by reporting Report that contains a material inconsistency an audit of Financial Statements is provided components none of which individually with either that knowledge or the Financial on the Financial Reporting Councils website represent more than 4% of these measures.
Statements, a material misstatement of fact, at www.
For the remaining components, we or that is otherwise misleading.
This report is made solely to the Companys performed analysis at an aggregated members as a body and subject to important Group level to re-examine our assessment In particular, we are required to report explanations and disclaimers regarding our that there were no significant risks of material to you if: responsibilities, published on our website at misstatement within these.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, audits are performed at a limited number we have identified material inconsistencies which are incorporated into this report as of these components after the date of between the knowledge we acquired if set out in full and should be read to provide this report.
during our audit and the Directors an understanding of the purpose of this statement that they consider that the The audits undertaken for Group reporting report, the work we have undertaken and Annual Report and Financial Statements purposes at the key reporting components the basis of our opinions.
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and of the Group were all performed to understandable and provides the materiality levels set, or approved, by the Richard Broadbelt information necessary for shareholders Group audit team.
These local materiality Senior Statutory Auditor to assess the Groups performance, levels, set individually for each component, for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, business model and strategy: or having regard to the size and risk profile Statutory Auditor of each component, ranged from 0.1m the Audit and Risk Committee Report Chartered Accountants to 2.0m.
does not appropriately address matters 15 Canada Square communicated by us to the Audit and London E14 5GL The Group audit team instructed Risk Committee.
component auditors as to the significant 27 February 2015 areas to be covered including the relevant Under the Companies Act 2006 we are risks detailed above and the information required to report to you if, in our opinion: to be reported back.
adequate accounting records have not The Group audit team performed the work been kept by the Parent Company, or on recoverability of goodwill and other returns adequate for our audit have not intangible assets, acquisition accounting, been received from branches not visited retirement benefit schemes and centrally held by us: or provisions.
The Group audit team performed the audit work and were physically present the Parent Company Financial Statements at five out of six reporting components in and the part of the Directors Remuneration scope in the USA, the Groups single largest Report to be audited are not in agreement geographical market.
In addition, the Group with the accounting records and returns: or audit team physically visited key reporting certain disclosures of Directors components in the following countries to remuneration specified by law are not discuss significant risks and audit strategy: made: or Brazil, Denmark, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
Telephone meetings were we have not received all the information also held with the auditors at these locations and explanations we require for our audit.
and all of the other locations that were not physically visited.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
