Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Opinion on financial statements of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Statements of financial position, the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Statement of changes in equity, the Cash flow statements and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Regulatory disclosures section of the Governance report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition We performed walkthroughs to understand the adequacy of the design and implementation of the revenue cycles and at all significant The risk in revenue recognition focuses on the recognition of components we produced revenue flow-charts.
We reviewed the revenue for product by reference to contracted shipping terms product despatch cycle across the year-end period and sampled a and the transfer of ownership for product despatch and delivery selection of items confirming the date of transfer of ownership was in spanning the year end.
There is significant volume of trade in the line with the revenue recognition date in accordance with the terms of final quarter of the year.
Additionally, there is a risk in the judgement involved in determining We performed testing on a sample of contracts, including new the extent of revenue to be recognised on fixed price contracts.
contracts, which spanned the year end to assess whether revenue There is management judgement in determining the revenue to be was recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the recognised and in particular in estimating the stage of completion contract in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy.
and the costs to complete the contract at the balance sheet date.
There is also a focus on any significant new contracts to determine the appropriate recognition of revenue.
Refer to note 1 for the Groups revenue recognition policy.
Inventory obsolescence We compared the methodology applied in calculating the inventory obsolescence provisions to the Groups policy and we challenged Inventory of 98 million at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: managements judgement of the adequacy of the policy by reviewing 104 million is a material balance for the Group.
There is risk the level of provision held across the Group.
We reviewed a sample of surrounding the obsolescence of inventory in niche markets and provision calculations by recalculating the provision and testing and industries where local demand fluctuates over periods.
There are verifying the accuracy of the usage data to underlying documentation judgements required in determining inventory provisions as they to confirm the accuracy of the data used in the calculation.
require assessment based on past and future product usage and Weinvestigated manual override to the mechanical application of whether the provision is adequate to cover any obsolescence.
the Group inventory obsolescence provisioning policy and where Refer to note 1 for the Groups inventory policy and note 18 for the applicable obtained evidence such as the order book or post-year-end financial disclosure.
orders or sales to support any significant adjustments.
104 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Defined benefit pension plan assumptions We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the key assumptions applied in determining the pension obligations, and determined At 31 December 2014 the net retirement benefit liability recognised whether the key assumptions are reasonable.
Key assumptions in the statement of financial position was 76 million 31 December assessed included future mortality, discount rate, inflation and 2013: 72 million.
There is a risk relating to the judgements made salary increases.
Our assessment included reviewing available yield by management in valuing the defined benefit pension plans curves and inflation data to recalculate a reasonable range for the including the use of key model input assumptions including the key assumptions.
We challenged management to understand the discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation level.
These sensitivity of changes in key assumptions and quantify a range of variables can have a material impact in calculating the quantum reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation.
We checked ofthe retirement benefit liability.
the arithmetic accuracy of the pension calculation models.
Additionally Refer to note 1 for the Groups policy on defined benefit plans and we benchmarked key assumptions against other listed companies to note 27 for the financial disclosure including the key assumptions check for any outliers in the data used.
used in the defined benefit pension plan valuation.
Goodwill impairment We challenged the adequacy and reasonableness of the key assumptions used in managements impairment calculations.
Wealso At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of goodwill was challenged the appropriateness of assumptions and forecasts used 48million 31 December 2013: 46 million.
There is a risk relating to conclude on asset impairment including a specific review and to the key assumptions and assertions used by management to challenge of discount rates and growth rates, the appropriateness of support their assessment of the carrying value of goodwill due to the level of aggregation of individual cash generating units CGUs and the material amounts recorded on the consolidated statement of the methodology applied.
We benchmarked the discount rates with financial position and the number of judgements in determining published rates for an external peer group.
In addition we used our the recoverable amounts.
Key assumptions include growth rates, valuation specialists within the audit team to calculate an acceptable discount rates applied and the forecast trading performance based range of discount rates and compared our range to that determined on managements view of future business prospects.
We challenged the perpetuity growth rates by Refer to note 1 for the Groups policy for intangible assets and note benchmarking against industry and GDP growth rates.
There are 13 for the financial disclosures including the key assumptions used 11 CGU groups and we checked the CGU groupings to information in managements impairment calculations.
reviewed by management to make decisions about their business.
Wechallenged the forecast cash flows used in the model against historical performance and assessed historical forecasting accuracy.
We also challenged managements sensitivity analysis to assess whether it reflected a reasonable worst case scenario.
Having audited the assumptions within managements impairment model, we checked the arithmetic accuracy and integrity of the model.
Taxation In conjunction with taxation audit specialists we assessed the assumptions and judgements concerning the adequacy of The tax risk concerns the judgements and estimates applied in the tax provisions for uncertain tax positions by viewing the latest determination of tax balances, in particular in relation to provisions correspondence from the various tax authorities and drawing on the for liabilities attributed to specific uncertain tax positions linked to experience of our tax specialists in respect of similar situations.
Refer to note 1 for the Groups accounting policy for taxation and note 8 for the financial disclosure.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 68.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Last year the previous auditors report included a risk relating to development costs and software costs which is not in our report this year.
For the 2014 audit we did not consider these items to be risks that had the greatest impact on our strategy.
New risks identified in our report that were not included in the previous auditors report include revenue recognition, inventory obsolescence and defined benefit pension plan assumptions.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 4.
Strategic report Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.3 million which is 5% of statutory profit before tax.
In 2013 the previous auditors set materiality at 10.5 million on the basis of 7% of statutory profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 145,000 in 2013 the threshold used by the previous auditor was 400,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
We considered acquisitions made during 2014 and included BioPure Technology Limited as a full scope audit.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 25 components.
21 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst four were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
These 25 components represent the principal business units and account for 93% of the Groups total assets, 80% of the Groups revenue and 87% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 25 components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual component which was lower than Group materiality ranging from 0.1 million to 3.6 million.
In 2013, the previous auditors focused their work at 17 components where audits for Group reporting purposes were performed.
These components accounted for 74% of Group revenue, 72% of profit before tax and 79% of total assets.
Analytical procedures were performed at a further four components covering 4% of revenue, 4% of profit before tax and 4% of total assets.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team have established a programme of planned component visits that has been designed so that the a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the key components where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
106 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 4th March 2015 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 4.
