Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc Opinion on financial statements, which is unmodified In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited: We have audited the financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2014, which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated cash flow statement and related notes, as set out on pages 79 to 123.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement The table below shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team together with our audit response to the risk: Risk Our response Revenue recognition see note 2 : The Groups revenue comprises Supply Chain and Professional and Contractual Services.
We considered the risks associated with each revenue stream separately and designed our audit response appropriately: Supply Chain the risk of inappropriate recognition of revenue We performed detailed testing of a sample of sales around the on significant product contracts around the period end due period end date to ensure that revenue had been appropriate to non-standard contract terms.
recognised in the correct period, and we tested a sample of Contractual Services the risk of inappropriate contract sales to supporting documentation to identify any right of return segmentation resulting in revenue being recorded in the wrong clauses and ensure that revenue had been appropriately period and the inappropriate matching of revenue with contract recognised.
We performed audit procedures on the controls delivery or incurred costs including any contractual penalties in place to test the appropriate determination of the revenue due.
In the case of the Groups one long-term accounting to be recognised, and vouched revenue levels to the related contract, which terminates in 2015, the risk related to the purchase order or agreement including terms and conditions estimations made by management in assessing the appropriate held with customers.
stage of completion, costs to complete, and revenue recognised.
We tested managements controls to ensure the correct billing Professional Services the risk of inappropriate revenue and cost capture on contracts.
recognition relating to complex contracts namely, timing For a sample of sales transactions we agreed the recorded of revenue recognition and use of the correct rate and the amounts to underlying records.
We re-performed the calculations to confirm the accuracy of For contract related revenue Professional and Contractual the accrued and deferred income recorded at the period end.
Services we considered the risk around loss provisions, that We have reviewed actual to forecast performance, interviewed the appropriate revenue and costs were included within the and challenged management both financial and non-financial provision: management had appropriately identified all contracts in relation to poorer performing contracts.
For the Groups one long-term accounting contract, we challenged managements performance assumptions in respect to the judgements made in assessing the cost to complete estimate, verifying explanations for unexpected variances.
76 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Our response French operations see notes 13, 17 and 23 : The impact of the activities to turnaround the Groups French subsidiary and its impact on the carrying value of the related non-current assets and working capital balances, specifically the recoverability of the related debtors.
In recent years, the French operations of Computacenter have We examined managements calculations for assessing returned a loss.
This indicates the risk of impairment of the valuation of the non-current and intangible assets of non-current and intangible assets in relation to Computacenter Computacenter France.
In particular, we assessed the forecasts France, as set out in the Audit Committees report on page 58 of the cash flows for the cash-generating unit by reviewing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
We have considered the managements supporting information and that contained on our risks associated with managements estimation processes, files, interviewing financial and non-financial management within assumptions and the reasonableness of managements the business and considering contra-indicators within our other forecasts and specific turnaround plans.
We assessed the appropriateness of other key Following the significant increase in the level of overdue assumptions, such as discount rates and terminal growth rates trade receivables within Computacenter France, there are by comparing to relevant external economic data.
We also risks associated with their recoverability.
These include the risks performed sensitivity analyses by stressing key assumptions associated with determining the collectability of aged debtors in the model to assess the level of headroom in place based in France and the related assumptions used in determining on reasonably expected movements in such assumptions.
We tested existence of the trade receivables balance through Completeness and valuation of the provision for the French testing a sample of invoices to proof of delivery and customer restructuring and assessment of the key assumptions used purchase orders.
We assessed the adequacy of managements within the calculation.
provision against the aged French trade receivables and their recoverability by testing the provision rationale for a sample of receivables, reviewing ageing and obtaining third party evidence to support the recoverability of aged receivables not provided for.
We examined managements calculation and the assumptions used in determining the provision for restructuring of Computacenter France in the year, its utilisation, and performed an analysis of the key factors within this calculation to assess their impact on the resulting provision.
Exceptional items see note 5 : The risks associated with the appropriateness of disclosures made within the Annual Report and Accounts, specifically those disclosure associated with exceptional items see note 5 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The risk of non-compliance with International Financial A sample of exceptional items including all material items Reporting Standards and guidance issued by the UKs Financial have been agreed to source documentation and challenged Reporting Council in relation to exceptional items, and by the local and Group audit teams as to their nature in order compliance with the Computacenter Groups stated policy.
to validate that they are material non-recurring items which are appropriate to present outside of normalised operating profit.
Our application of materiality We initially determined materiality for the Group to be 4.0 million 2013: 3.5 million, which is approximately 5 per cent 2013: 5 per cent of pre-tax profit before non-recurring exceptional items.
We used this adjusted pre-tax profits measure as we consider this to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
During the course of our audit, the actual profit of the Group was in line with the forecasted profit and as a result we maintained our materiality threshold at 4.0 million 2013: 3.5 million.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75 per cent 2013: 75 per cent of planning materiality, namely 3.0 million 2013: 2.6 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1 million to 2 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2013: 0.2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected three components which represent the Groups three principal reportable segments and, together with the Group operations also subject to a full audit, account for 95 per cent 2013: 98 per cent of the Groups total assets and 96 per cent 2013: 98 per cent of the Groups revenue, and 93 per cent 2013: 92 per cent of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused, or meets with the location audit teams, each year.
77 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006, which is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Annual Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Nick Powell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 11 March 2015 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Computacenter plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
78 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc continued
