152 Financial statements Independent auditors report Following the adoption of IFRS 10 for the first time, we challenged the Independent auditors report to judgements and assumptions that management have exercised in determining which group entities are investment entities, and those the members of 3iGroup plc which are consolidated subsidiaries.
We carried out analysis on the group structure, as well as the activities within the subsidiaries to 1.
Our opinions and conclusions arising from our audit confirm they have been treated as held at fair value or consolidated We have audited the Financial statements of 3i Group plc for the year appropriately.
We have audited the Financial statements to ensure ended 31 March 2014, which comprise the Statement of comprehensive thatthe standard has been applied correctly.
income, the Group and parent Company Statement of financial position, the Group and parent Company Statement of changes in equity, the 4.
Our application of materiality Group and parent Company Cash flow statement and the related Notes 1 We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our to 34.
Thefinancial reporting framework that has been applied in their audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the Financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards Financial statements are free from material misstatement we define theparent Company Financial statements, as applied in accordance materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable withthe provisions of the Companies Act 2006. thatthe economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the Financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
In our opinion: When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude the Financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the of uncorrected and undetected misstatements that we judged would Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 bematerial for the Financial statements as a whole.
We determined andof the Groups profit for the year then ended: materiality for the Group to be 33 million 2013: 29 million, which is the Group Financial statements have been properly prepared in 1%of net asset value.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: judgement and necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative considerations implicit in the definition.
the parent Company Financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies ofthe Groups overall control environment, our judgment is that overall Act 2006: performance materiality that is our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, the Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the namely 16.6 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach is toensure requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences inthefinancial financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements as a whole do not exceed our materiality of33 million.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.6 million, as well as onouroverall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting anddirecting the efforts of the engagement team: onqualitative grounds.
valuation of the unquoted investment portfolio: 5.
An overview of the scope of our audit calculation of carried interest: and We used a risk-based approach for determining our audit strategy, application and interpretation of new accounting standards, ensuring that our audit teams performed consistent procedures and specifically IFRS 10. focused on addressing the risks that are relevant to the business.
Thisapproach focused our audit effort towards higher risk areas, 3.
Our response to these risks suchas significant management judgments.
With the assistance of our valuation experts, we assessed the The investments balance is the most significant part of the balance appropriateness of the techniques used to value the unquoted sheet.
Control over the valuation of these investments is exercised investment portfolio.
We challenged managements key assumptions by3ismanagement in London, and as such is audited wholly by the used in preparing these valuations, such as earnings multiples and UKaudit team.
In all other locations where the Group has operations, weperformed analysis to confirm that these multiples were within weperformed other procedures to confirm there were no significant anappropriate range with reference to other comparable company risks ofmaterial misstatement in the Group Financial statements.
We obtained corroborative evidence over the significant inputs used in valuation models.
With regard to carried interest, we performed analytical procedures inrespect of carry based on our knowledge of investment realisations, and the performance of the portfolio.
In addition, on a sample basis, we reperformed managements calculation of carried interest.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements 153 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the The scope of our report Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our In our opinion: audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for the financial year for which the Financial statements are prepared forthis report, or for the opinions we have formed.
is consistent with the Financial statements.
The scope of our audit of the Financial statements 6.
Matters on which we are required to report An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures byexception in the Financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters: the Financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent inouropinion, information in the Annual Report is: Companys circumstances and have been applied consistently and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting statements: or estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonapparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 to identify with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing material inconsistencies with the audited Financial statements and to our audit: or identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based otherwise misleading.
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
If we become aware of any apparent In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications anyinconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit for our report.
and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The respective responsibilities of directors whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should and auditor have been disclosed.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, setout on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation inour opinion: ofthe Financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent ontheFinancial statements in accordance with applicable law and Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards from group entities not visited by us: or require us tocomply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical the parent Company Financial statements and the part of the Standards forAuditors.
Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or David Canning-Jones Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor we have not received all the information and explanations we require London for our audit.
Date: 13 May 2014 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 76, in relation to going Notes: concern: and 1 The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Group plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate changes that may have occurred to the Financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Governance Code specified for our review.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
