Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC only Our response: Our procedures included critically Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit assessing the appropriateness of the assumptions used to 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified value the earn-out payment, including the cash flows and We have audited the financial statements of Aberdeen Asset probability weightings used in each of the revenue Management PLC for the year ended 30 September 2014 set scenarios and the discount rate applied.
We evaluated out on pages 86 to 146.
In our opinion: the assumptions used by comparing these to externally the financial statements give a true and fair view of the derived data.
The cash flows were compared to growth state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs expectations for market participants that are comparable as at 30 September 2014 and of the Groups profit for to the business, while the discount rate was benchmarked the year then ended: against those of comparable quotable companies.
We also considered wider publicly available data on other the Group financial statements have been properly variables such as the risk free rate element of the prepared in accordance with International Financial discount rate.
We used our own valuation specialists to Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union support our procedures.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been Identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired in properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the period 394.5m by the EU as applied in accordance with the Companies The risk: Significant judgement is involved in the Act 2006: and identification and valuation of the intangible assets acquired as part of the SWIP acquisition, including the the financial statements have been prepared in identification of all relevant management contracts and accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act consideration of other possible assets that could meet 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, the definition of intangible assets for recognition under Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The valuation of these 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement intangible assets is based on discounted cash flow In arriving at our audit opinion above in the financial models for each contract.
The judgement involved in statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the applying the appropriate assumptions for cash flows and greatest effect on our audit are set out below: determining an appropriate discount rate leads to a risk of material misstatement.
There is further judgement Accounting for the Acquisition of SWIP around the assessment of the estimated useful lives, Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 87 which should reflect the period of expected future accounting policy and note 14 financial disclosures.
economic benefits arising from each contract and will Valuation of earn-out payment 50.7m determine the future amortisation profile of these assets.
The risk: The purchase consideration for the Groups Our response: Our procedures included using our acquisition of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership own valuation specialists to support us in critically SWIP includes an earn-out payment based on challenging the valuations.
We assessed the incremental revenues in the investment solutions completeness of the intangibles identified by business and subject to a maximum cash payment of considering the underlying current and prospective 100.0 million.
This liability is stated at fair value, being revenue streams in the acquired entities.
based on a probability-weighted expected return analysis With regard to the valuation of the intangibles, we of cash flow assumptions, which relates to expected evaluated the assumptions including cash flows, performance and growth, discounted to a present value.
discount rate and risk free rate using the same Post-acquisition true-ups of the liability will flow through method described in our response to the earn-out the income statement.
Given that and the judgement valuation risk above.
involved in deriving forecast revenues and associated In evaluating the appropriateness of the estimated useful probability weightings, and determining an appropriate lives, we considered the Groups forecast of the expected discount rate, this is an area considered to be at risk of future economic benefits associated with each asset.
We compared these to the projected cash flows and the contractual lives of the assets.
We also considered whether the amortisation methodology adopted best represented the profile of expected future economic benefits.
com 147 Independent auditors report continued For all of the risks noted above we have assessed whether Assessment of impairment of Intangible Assets 1,552.2m the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the estimates Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 90 to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in accounting policy and note 13 financial disclosures.
The risk: We concentrate our audit on the components of intangible assets which contain the following key judgemental In our audit report for the year ended 30 September 2013 we areas: goodwill, and management contracts and distribution included share-based payments as one of the risks of material agreements.
An impairment assessment of goodwill and misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit.
We indefinite life intangibles is carried out annually, while definite considered this risk to be less significant in the current year as life intangibles are assessed for indicators of impairment.
there are no new schemes and the model for quantifying the expense and underlying assumptions is now well established.
Due to the range of judgements and assumptions used in the models and impairment assessments, as well as the 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope significant carrying amount of the intangible assets, which of our audit represent 28.8% of the total assets on the Balance Sheet, this The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole is an area considered to be at risk of material misstatement.
was set at 20 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude Our response to goodwill: Our procedures included critically the one-off SWIP acquisition costs as disclosed in note 4, of assessing the assumptions and methodologies used by the 392.3 million, of which it represents 5%.
Group in their value-in-use model.
We compared the Groups We report to the Audit Committee any uncorrected identified assumptions to externally derived data and our own misstatements exceeding 1 million, in addition to other assessments of key inputs such as projected economic identified misstatements that warranted reporting on growth, cost inflation and discount rates and assessed qualitative grounds.
sensitivities, as well as performing break-even analysis on key assumptions.
We tested the Groups procedures around the We performed audits for group reporting purposes, covering preparation of the budget, upon which the value-in-use model 89% of total Group revenue, 100% of Group profit before tax is based, as well as comparing the sum of projected and 93% of total Group assets.
These audits included 34 of discounted cash flows to the market capitalisation of the the Groups reporting components, which, in total, number Group to assess whether the projected cash flows appear over 100 including branches, dormant subsidiaries and reasonable.
We used our own valuation specialists to support non-trading subsidiaries.
Five audits were performed by our procedures.
component auditors and 29 by the Group audit team.
Our response to indefinite life intangibles: Our procedures For the remaining components, we performed analysis at included critically assessing the assumptions and the aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment methodologies used by the Group in their fair value less costs that there are no significant risks of material misstatement to sell model, by comparing the key assumptions fee rates, within these.
projected assets under management AUM and revenue The Group audit team instructed reporting component multipliers on projected cash flows against data derived auditors as to the significant areas to be covered including from internal sources, such as the Groups own implied fee the relevant risks detailed above, and the information to rates and reported AUM, and external sources, including be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the recent transactions, which were used to derive an appropriate component materiality of 10.8 million, having regard to the revenue multiple.
We performed a sensitivity analysis based mix of size and risk profile of the businesses within the Group.
on the key assumptions of the models.
We used our own valuation specialists to support our procedures.
The Group audit team visited two reporting component locations in the USA and Singapore to assess the audit risk Our response to definite life intangibles: We reviewed and strategy.
Telephone meetings were also held with the Groups assessment for indicators of impairment in auditors of these components and the other reporting consideration of business activities such as fund outflows and components that were not physically visited.
At these associated results for the year.
Where indicators of meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team impairment were identified, we critically assessed the Groups were discussed in more detail, and any further work required value-in-use models, using our work over goodwill described by the Group audit team was then performed by the above.
We assessed the useful lives of each definite life asset component auditor.
to determine if they remained appropriate in the context of the expected future period of economic consumption.
148 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Act 2006 is unmodified the directors statement, set out on page 82, in relation to going In our opinion: concern: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 58 in audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Corporate Governance Report relating to the companys the Companies Act 2006: and compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate the information given in the Strategic Report and Governance Code specified for our review.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Scope of report and responsibilities financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on Statement set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for which we are required to report by exception the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting have identified other information in the annual report that Councils website at www.
This contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our or that is otherwise misleading.
responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk In particular, we are required to report to you if: auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of we have identified material inconsistencies between the the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the basis of our opinions.
directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Catherine Burnet Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor you if, in our opinion: Chartered Accountants adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 37 Albyn Place parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have AB10 1JB not been received from branches not visited by us: or 28 November 2014 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
