INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BETFAIR GROUP PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit transfer between each IT system and evaluated whether it was 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified operating effectively.
We have audited the financial statements of Betfair Group plc Data on a sample of different types of bets placed by for the year ended 30 April 2014 set out on pages 75 to 119. customers in different markets was extracted from the systems.
In our opinion: Commission rate calculations were re-performed to assess the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state completeness and accuracy of commissions and revenues from of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at winning bets.
30 April 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: We tested controls related to access to programs and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in data, program change and development and computer accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as operations by evaluating account set-up and termination adopted by the European Union: for users, password restrictions, access reviews, users with the Parent Company financial statements have been properly super-user access, program change and development process prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and controls and integration monitoring, and tested whether any the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with unauthorised changes had been made to the system.
The overall the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards IT environment was critically assessed, including security policies the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and procedures, IT organisational structure, strategy and 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement reporting, disaster recovery and back-up testing.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements We tested processes and controls over customer account set-up the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on and cash deposits and withdrawals from client accounts.
We our audit were as follows: verify client bank balances to third party information and test Revenue recognition 393.6m the reconciliation of these bank balances to Betfair customers Refer to page 44 Report of the Audit Committee, page 86 betting accounts.
We have also considered the adequacy of Accounting policies and pages 89 to 91 financial disclosures.
the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue recognition.
The risk The recognition of commission revenues or revenues Valuation of tax provisions from winning and losing bets may be misstated.
The appropriate Refer to page 44 Report of the Audit Committee and page 87 recognition of revenue is dependent on IT systems correctly Accounting policies.
calculating commission revenues and appropriate wins and The risk The online gaming regulatory environment is losses and client funds and core finance processes and controls complex and constantly changing.
Some markets are highly accurately reporting on and reconciling these transactions.
regulated, while in other markets, online gaming regulation is not yet formed or is unclear.
Betfair organises its operations in Revenue streams for the vast majority of the Groups products different jurisdictions in a way which requires the Directors to are computed on highly complex IT systems, with a number exercise a level of judgement surrounding the interpretation of different bases for calculating revenue.
There are in excess of international tax laws and the way in which they interact of 1 billion transactions each year, all requiring a correct IT within each jurisdiction.
This may result in significant provisions outcome.
There is a risk that each system is not configured or contingent liabilities for gaming and other indirect taxes correctly from the outset such that commissions or winning incountries where the tax and or other regulations are not and losing bets are calculated incorrectly, that the systems yet formed or are unclear, the volatility of which could have do not interface correctly from the customer facing systems a significant impact on the financial statements, particularly if through to the financial information systems and that there is a retrospective element applied to taxes.
Where tax unauthorised changes are made to any of these systems, regulations are formalised in certain jurisdictions, Betfair must which may result in the misstatement of revenue.
adhere to the operating guidelines within these jurisdictions, The calculation of revenue from the IT systems links directly such that taxes do not become payable elsewhere, which to the reconciliation of funds between client and corporate would result in current tax provisions being understated.
accounts and as such client funds must be appropriately managed and safeguarded.
There is a risk that commissions In addition to gaming taxes, the Directors must make judgements or winning and losing bets are not calculated correctly and in relation to international income tax laws including transfer therefore a risk that the revenue to be transferred from the pricing and controlled foreign companies.
customer accounts in the ring fenced trust to Betfair corporate Our response Our audit procedures included, among accounts could be misstated.
others, challenging the Directors and the Groups in-house Our response Our audit procedures included, among lawyers in order to understand and critically assess the others, the use of IT audit experts throughout the audit procedures that the Group has in place to comply with process.
We critically assessed the design and operating regulations in different jurisdictions.
We used KPMGs wider effectiveness of IT controls and tested that the systems are understanding of the regulatory markets to challenge the configured appropriately.
We traced bets placed on live betting Directors and critically assessed the exposure to taxation.
We environments from the customer facing systems to the data examined correspondence with regulators during the year and centre and then from the data centre to the financial information evaluated the Groups taxation position, working with KPMG tax systems to ensure that information is passed appropriately from specialists to test gaming taxes, indirect taxes and income taxes.
We tested controls over the capture of We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures detailing legal initial bets, their allocation between different products and their proceedings adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the processing through the system to recognition in revenue or Group and considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect in the appropriate customer account.
We also tested the of tax and uncertain tax positions.
configuration of the system which monitors the information Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201473 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF BETFAIR GROUP PLC ONLY 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope In particular, we are required to report to you if: of our audit we have identified material inconsistencies between the In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set statement that they consider that the Annual Report and at 3.5m.
This has been calculated with reference to a benchmark financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and of Group profit before tax, which we consider to be one of the understandable and provides the information necessary for principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 6% model and strategy: or of Group profit before tax.
the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 43 to 45 does We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all uncorrected not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in Audit Committee.
excess of 175,000, for income statement items, in addition to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you other audit misstatements we believed warranted reporting on if, in our opinion: qualitative grounds.
In addition we considered whether any adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent misstatements corrected by management identified during the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been course of the audit should be communicated to the Audit received from branches not visited by us: or Committee to assist it in fulfilling its governance responsibilities.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in component auditors in Malta and Australia.
The Group audit team agreement with the accounting records and returns: or performed the audit over Betfair Group, including consolidation certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law type adjustments in the UK, and the Group audit team also are not made: or performed reviews over Betfair US TVG and Betfair Italy.
we have not received all the information and explanations we These Group procedures covered 88% of Group revenue, require for our audit: or 92% of Group profit before tax and 82% of Group assets.
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the the Company.
key reporting components of the Group were all performed to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component the Directors statement, set out on page 69, in relation to at 3.0m.
going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 38 Detailed instructions were sent to component auditors, which in the Annual Report and Accounts relating to the Companys covered the significant areas that should be covered by the audit compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate engagements which included the relevant risks of material Governance Code specified for our review.
misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
The Group audit team visited the following locations: Malta and Scope of report and responsibilities Ireland.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities these locations and the majority of the other locations that were Statement set out on page 71, the Directors are responsible for the not physically visited.
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Act 2006 is unmodified Councils website at www.
In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members as the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at Act 2006: www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide Report for the financial year for which the financial statements an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 38 to 68 of the Annual Report and Accounts with respect to internal control and risk management systems in Michael Harper Senior Statutory Auditor relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which London, E14 5GL we are required to report by exception 11 June 2014 Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
74 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
