118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 33 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc In our opinion the financial statements: Opinion on financial statements of give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at Aberforth Smaller Companies 31 December 2014 and of the Companys return for the year then ended Trust plc have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 20 that the Company is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the material misstatement audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of investments We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: The listed investments of the Company critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over 1,139m make up 103% of total net assets valuation and ownership of investments: 1,107m.
Please see notes 9 and 18. agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment Investments listed on recognised ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent exchanges are valued at the closing bid pricing source: price at the year end.
agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to There is a risk that investments may not confirmation received directly from the custodian and depositary: and be valued correctly or may not represent reviewed the internal controls report over Northern Trust to assess the the property of the Company.
adequacy of the design and implementation of controls at the custodian.
Revenue recognition, completeness and We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: allocation between revenue and capital critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over Dividends from equity shares are revenue recognition, completeness and allocation: accounted for on an ex-dividend date as for a sample of corporate actions and all special dividends we revenue, except where: in the opinion of challenged managements rationale for the allocation between revenue management and the Board, the and capital against the requirements of the AICs Statement of dividend is capital in nature, in which Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust case it is treated as a return of capital.
Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP and agreed details of Please see note 2. the dividend to a third party source to evidence the nature of the There is a risk that revenue is incomplete dividend and completeness of the listing: or incorrectly allocated between revenue evaluated the accounting policies for revenue recognition against the and capital accounts.
requirements of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the We have included this risk in our audit SORP: and opinion for 31 December 2014 as this for a sample of investments, agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for balance is now significant.
dividends declared, obtained from an independent pricing source to the Companys dividend listing and bank statements to determine that the dividends have been correctly recognised and to determine completeness of the population.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 33 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 34 Independent Auditors Report The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 27.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Our application of materiality statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 11.1m 2013: 34.1m, which is 1% 2013: 3% of Total Net Assets.
We have changed the percentage applied to align more closely with other comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 221,000 2013: 683,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Company and its An overview of the scope of our environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material audit misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
In our opinion: Opinion on other matters the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been prescribed by the Companies Act properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our accounting records opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
34 Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc Independent Auditors Report Our duty to read other information in the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required Annual Report to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Respective responsibilities of directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and directors and auditor for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Scope of the audit of the financial the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the statements financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 29 January 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the Aberforth Partners LLP web site is the responsibility of the partners of Aberforth Partners LLP: the work carried out by the auditor of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 35
