INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising @ Our response Our audit procedures Co-insurance and reinsurance fromouraudit included testing the controls over the Refer to page 51 Audit Committee 1.
Our opinion on the financial underwriting and claims process and statement, note 5 accounting policy statementsis unmodified performing substantive analysis over andfinancial disclosures.
We have audited the financial statements thetrends in claims frequency and size.
@ The risk The Group has in place a number ofAdmiral Group plc for the year ended Using our actuarial specialists to support of proportional risk sharing agreements, 31December 2014 set out on pages 78 us, we assessed the level of reserves held where insurers outside the Group underwrite to113.
In our opinion: for incurred claims through evaluating a majority of the risk generated, either thecompetence, capability and objectivity @ the financial statements give a true and through co-insurance or quota share of the Groups external actuary, assessing fairview of the state of the Groups and reinsurance contracts.
For reinsurance the actuarial methodologies employed, ofthe Parent Companys affairs as at contracts, there is judgement involved including the use of paid and incurred chain 31December 2014 and of the Groups inthe assessment of whether risk has ladders and the average cost perclaim profit for the year then ended: beentransferred, which impacts on the method, challenging key judgements, for appropriate accounting including whether @ the Group financial statements have example the extent to which improvements premium income and insurance claims beenproperly prepared in accordance in claims trends are taken into account in arepresented gross or net of reinsurance.
withInternational Financial Reporting reserve projections, and benchmarking key A number of the reinsurance arrangements Standards as adopted by the European assumptions against KPMG sourced market also include reinsurance caps, whereby Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : data.
Inrespect of the amounts related to theGroup is limited as to the amount it largebodily injury claims and actual and @ the Parent Company financial statements canrecover against insurance claims and potential PPOs, we investigated the process have been properly prepared in accordance operating expenses based on the cap in for identifying and assessing the required with UK Accounting Standards: and place.
This impacts the underlying profit reserve for large claims and for updating ofthe Group.
For co-insurance contracts, @ the financial statements have been prepared this reserve as more information becomes the accounting is driven by the fact that the in accordance with the requirements of the available, investigated the process for Group does not retain the underlying risks Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the assessing cases that have the potential to and rewards of the business underwritten.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the be settled as PPOs and benchmarked the The outcome of these judgements affect IAS Regulation.
key assumptions made in calculating large the recognition and timing of revenue bodily injury claims reserves, including 2.
Our assessment of risks along with profit recognition and disclosure mortality in the case of PPO cases and  of income and expenses associated with discount rates applied.
The focus of our In arriving at our audit opinion above on these risk sharing agreements.
work is the UK Motor portfolio.
thefinancial statements the risks of material @ Our response Our audit procedures misstatement that had the greatest effect In respect of the margin held above included critically assessing the contract onour audit were as follows.
theactuarial best estimate, we assessed terms for these arrangements to ascertain the rationale for this margin including Insurance liabilities 2,097.4 million whether, taking into account relevant consideration of the level of prudence Refer to page 51 Audit Committee accounting standards, the appropriate within the margin, the consistency with Statement, note 5d accounting policy risktransfer has occurred to support which the underlying judgements have andfinancial disclosures.
thetreatment of the arrangement as been applied in relation to the current co-insurance or quota share reinsurance.
@ The risk The provision for claims yearand prior periods and the existence We reviewed the terms of the reinsurance outstanding comprises the estimated cost ofany management bias.
caps, re-calculated the expected total of settling all claims incurred but unpaid at We have also considered the adequacy of capcost and compared to the actual the balance sheet date, whether reported the Groups disclosures about the margin capcost recognised, and assessed the or not.
This is a judgemental and complex held above the actuarial best estimate, appropriateness of the allocation between area due to the inherent uncertainty of andthe degree of estimation and insurance claims and operating expenses.
estimating claims not yet reported, future sensitivity to key assumptions.
We have also considered the adequacy of costs of settling claims, discount rates the Groups disclosures and appropriateness andwhether customers will be awarded of the presentation of transactions and alump sum claim or a periodic payment.
balances relating to these arrangements.
The amounts involved are potentially significant and the application of accounting standards to determine the amount, if any, to be provided as a liability, is inherently subjective.
One of the most significant uncertainties relates to the reserve held for large bodily injury claims and actual and potential Periodic Payment Order settlements PPOs.
The UK motor portfolio presents the biggest risk of material misstatement.
76 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N Profit commission 71.8 million The remaining 6% of total Group net revenue, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Refer to page 51 Audit Committee 3% of Group profit before tax and 3% of total required to report to you if, in our opinion: statement, note 5c accounting policy Group assets is represented by 5 reporting @ adequate accounting records have not been andfinancial disclosures.
components, none of which individually kept by the Parent Company, or returns represented more than 2% of any of total @ The risk The recognition of profit adequate for our audit have not been Group net revenue, Group profit before tax commission income from co-insurers and received from branches not visited by us: or ortotal Group assets.
quota share reinsurers is initially in line @ the Parent Company financial statements withthe loss ratios booked in the financial For these remaining components, we and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements and will vary with movements performed analysis at an aggregated Group Report to be audited are not in agreement inthe loss ratios.
The recognition of this level to re-examine our assessment that there with the accounting records and returns: or income is therefore subject to the same were no significant risks of material level of estimation as the claims liability misstatement within these.
@ certain disclosures of directors remuneration noted above until, in the case of quota specified by law are not made: or The Group audit team instructed two component share reinsurance, the relevant contracts auditors as to the significant risk focused audit @ we have not received all the information are commuted, at which point no further procedures to be performed.
The procedures and explanations we require for our audit.
In addition, on the remaining components were performed different contractual arrangements are in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: by the Group audit team.
The Group audit place with the Groups co-insurance and team approved the component materialities, @ the directors statement, set out on page 73, reinsurance partners and there is a risk that which ranged from 500,000 to 16,500,000, in relation to going concern: and the differences in arrangements are not having regard to the mix of size and risk profile appropriately accounted for, resulting in @ the part of the Corporate Governance of the Group across the components.
Statement on page 40 relating tothe 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed companys compliance with the ten provisions @ Our response Our audit procedures by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance included, in addition to our procedures In our opinion: Code specified for our review.
over insurance liabilities noted above, forming an expectation of the profit @ the part of the Directors Remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of the commission income based on loss ratios Report to be audited has been properly above responsibilities.
applied and contractual terms of each prepared in accordance with the arrangement, comparing this to actual Companies Act 2006: and Scope and responsibilities profit commission income recognised As explained more fully in the Directors @ the information given in the Strategic andcorroborating any changes to the Responsibilities Statement set out on page 75, Report and Directors Report for the profit commission arrangements during the directors are responsible for the preparation financial year for which the financial theyear.
We have also considered the of the financial statements and for being statements are prepared is consistent adequacy of the Groups disclosures satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Adescription of the scope of an audit of 5.
We have nothing to report in respect financial statements is provided on the 3.
Our application of materiality and ofthe matters on which we are required Financial Reporting Councils website at anoverview of the scope of our audit to report by exception www.
This The materiality for the Group financial statements Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report is made solely to the companys members as a whole was set at 18.5 million, determined report to you if, based on the knowledge we as a body and is subject to important with reference to a benchmark ofGroup profit acquired during our audit, we have identified explanations and disclaimers regarding our before taxation of which it represents 5%.
other information in the annual report that responsibilities, published on our website at Wereport to the Audit Committee any corrected contains a material inconsistency with either www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, or uncorrected identified misstatements that knowledge or the financial statements, which are incorporated into this report as if exceeding 0.9 million, in addition to other amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is setout in full and should be read to provide identified misstatements that warranted otherwise misleading.
an understanding of the purpose of this reporting on qualitative grounds.
report, the work we have undertaken and In particular, we are required to report to you if: Of the Groups 12 reporting components, we thebasis of our opinions.
subjected four to audits for Group reporting @ we have identified material inconsistencies purposes, two to specified risk focused audit between the knowledge we acquired during procedures and one to a review of financial our audit and the directors statement that information including enquiry.
The components they consider that the annual report and for which we performed specified risk focused financial statements taken as a whole is fair, Salim Tharani Senior Statutory Auditor procedures and a review of financial information balanced and understandable and provides for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, were not individually financially significant the information necessary for shareholders Statutory Auditor enough to require an audit for Group reporting to assess the Groups performance, business Chartered Accountants purposes, but did present specific individual model and strategy: or 3 Assembly Square risks that needed to be addressed.
@ the Audit Committee Statement does not Britannia Quay The components within the scope of our work appropriately address matters communicated Cardiff accounted for 94% of Group net revenue, 97% by us to the Audit Committee.
CF10 4AX of Group profit before tax and 97% of Group 4 March 2015 total assets.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 77
