84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BG GROUP PLC OUR OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROMOUR AUDIT 1.
Our opinion on the Financial statements 3.
Our approach to planning our audit In our opinion: Understand BG Groups business, UNDERSTANDING the Financial statements give a true and fair strategy and business model BG GROUPS BUSINESS view ofthestate of the Groups and of the We obtain an understanding of BG Group parent Companys affairs as at 31 December and the environment in which it operates 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year by review, enquiry, analytical procedures, thenended: observation and inspection.
the Groups Financial statements have beenproperly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS asadopted by the European Union: Identify and assess the risks RISK OF MATERIAL the parent Company Financial statements of material misstatement MISSTATEMENT We perform risk assessment procedures havebeen properly prepared in accordance to provide a basis for the identification with IFRS as adopted by the European and assessment of risks of material Unionand as applied in accordance with the misstatement, including those relating provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and to significant risks see section 4. the Financial statements have been prepared inaccordance with the requirements of theCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups Financial statements, Article 4 Determine materiality and MATERIALITY oftheIAS Regulation.
performance materiality When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determine materiality for 2.
What we have audited the financial statements as a whole.
We have audited the Financial statements of In so doing, we make judgements about BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December thesize of misstatements that will be 2014, whichcomprise: considered material see section 5 the Consolidated income statement, the  of comprehensive income, theConsolidated and parent Company Determine the scope of our audit SCOPE balancesheets, the Consolidated and parent Our scope is tailored to the particular circumstances of our audit of BG Group Companystatements ofchanges in equity, andis influenced by our assessed risks of theConsolidated andparent Company cash material misstatement and determination flowstatements: and of materiality see section 6. the Principal accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSasadopted by the European Union and, as regardstheparent Company Financial statements, as applied in accordance with theprovisions of theCompanies Act 2006.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BG GROUP PLC 85 4.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had thegreatest effect on: our overall audit strategy: our allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
RISKS OUR RESPONSE TO THESE RISKS WHAT WE REPORTED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The recent decline in crude oil prices has had a In 2014, around three quarters of the output ofBG Groups The available market evidence shows that thereis significant impact on the Group Financial statements gasassets was sold under contracts linked to oil prices.
awide range of expectations as to theoil price over and disclosures.
The lower outlook has resulted the next 5 years.
We therefore focused our analysis principally on oil prices.
Beyond 2020 brokers expect prices to recover, although In assessing the appropriateness of managements A significant judgement is oil price assumptions, not to levels experienced over the lastthree years.
oilprice assumptions, we havecompared their price both in the short and long-term.
assumptions withthe latest market evidence available, BG Groups oil price assumptions are comfortably Commodity price assumptions impact manyareas including forward curves, brokers estimates andother within the range of analyst expectations and offinancial reporting, including estimation of oil long-term price forecasts.
other market data, including the range of what we andgas reserve volumes, impairment assessment understand other market participants are considering and decommissioning provision estimates.
Estimation of oil and gas reserves requires Our audit procedures have focused on managements Based on our procedures we consider that the reserves significant judgement and assumptions by estimation process, including whether bias exists estimations are a reasonable basisfor estimating management and engineers.
These estimates inthedetermination of reserves and resources.
reserves in-place for impairment testing, calculating have a material impact on the Financial statements, DD&A, the determination of decommissioning Ourprocedures included: particularly: impairment testing: depreciation, datesandin considering going concern.
assessing the competence and objectivity of both depletion and amortisation DD&A : decommissioning internal and external specialists involved in the provisions: and going concern.
estimation process: There is technical uncertainty in assessing reserve ensuring that significant additions or reductionsin proved quantities and complex contractual arrangements reserves were compliant with BG Groups Reserves dictating BG Groups share of reserves, particularly andResources Technical Standards and Guidelines: the Production Sharing Contracts PSCs and joint testing group-wide controls over the reserves venture arrangements in place.
This technical reviewprocess: and uncertainty is even higher in the case of discussing and ensuring that any reserve revisions unconventional hydrocarbons.
were consistent with our understanding.
The assessment of the existence of any indicators The principal indicator of impairment was thedecline Based on our procedures, we believe the impairment ofimpairment of the carrying amount of non-current inthe oil price.
We engaged our business modelling charge is appropriate and well within an acceptable exploration and production assets is judgemental.
andvaluation specialists toassist us inthe audit of range.
Furthermore, based on our audit procedures, Intheevent that indicators are identified, the theimpairment charge.
we believe thatthe cash flow projections estimated assessment of the recoverable amounts ofthe assets arereasonable, the assumptions are supportable Separately, we audited the inputs to impairment models, isalso judgemental.
Overall there has been a material andthe range of economic conditions that could including thecommodity prices, production profiles, impairment charge thathas been recognised during existover the remaining useful lives ofthe assets cash flow projections, capital expenditure, operating 2014.
The impairment charge has primarily been haveappropriately beenconsidered.
driven bythe significant reduction in commodity prices and reduced outlook for the long-term Our procedures included: assumed oil and gas prices.
understanding the variations in future production to historical data: comparing future operating expenditure to historical expenditure and ensuring that variations are in line with our expectations: comparing the inflation and exchange rate assumptions to external market data: and an independent assessment of the discount rate.
The overdue amount from the Egyptian government We challenged managements assessment asto Based on the overall balance of the quantitative at the year end was $0.7 billion.
Given the political therecoverability of the receivable.
Wegained an andqualitative factors, we believethat theoverdue and economic uncertainty inEgypt we continue to understanding of the local environment in Egypt and Egyptian receivable of $0.7billion remains focus on the recoverability of this overdue amount.
monitored its impact on operations.
In forming our view wehave taken receivables balance and agreed the receipts tosupporting into account the significant lump sum cash documentation.
We critically evaluated managements payments that have been received during the year assessment of the recoverability of asset balances.
and the positive developments that have taken We considered cash received during the year, average place during theyear on price re-negotiation.
grid take for the year, the status ofprice re-negotiations We consider the pre-tax charge of $100 million withthe Egyptian government, general developments in relating to the downward re-measurement of Egypt, the anticipated time over which the outstanding the receivable to reflect the time value of money amount is expected to be repaid andthe currency to be appropriate.
thatthose payments are anticipated to be made in.
There are material deferred tax assets recognised We have audited the forecast taxable profits that We are satisfied there is sufficient certainty over as at the balance sheet date.
These assets primarily underpin the recognition of the deferred tax assets, theability of the company to utilise theselosses and relate to tax losses andare recognised on the basis inparticular the taxable profits ofthe Australian, that recognition of the relateddeferred tax assets that there will be taxable profit within the Group US and UK businesses.
Theassets are primarily Our procedures included: in Australia, the US andtheUK.
The Australian understanding the income sources supporting the element was previously unrecognised.
future taxable profits: ensuring that the assumptions are consistent with those tested as part of the impairment testing: and confirming as to whether the tax losses are restricted against the source of future profits or are required to be utilised within a certain timeframe.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BG GROUP PLC CONTINUED 86 4.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued RISKS OUR RESPONSE TO THESE RISKS WHAT WE REPORTED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Group has a number of material uncertain We considered managements interpretation and We believe that the amount provided by taxpositions, which are subject to judgement in application of relevant tax law and challenged the management isappropriate and well within relation to interpretation of tax regulations and appropriateness of managements assumptions and anacceptablerange.
estimation in recording a provision for any estimates in relation to uncertain tax positions.
To assist us in assessing a number of uncertain tax positions, we engaged our tax specialists toadvise us onthe tax technical issues in orderto form a view of therisk of challenge tocertain tax treatments adopted.
Going concern assessment, particularly inlight Our audit procedures included: Based on the results of our procedures, we areof of the recent oil price decline anddecrease in agreeing the assumed cash flows to the business theopinion that the Group has prepared arobust forward prices.
plan, walking through the businessplanning process assessment that has considered appropriate sensitivities andtesting thecentral assumptions to external data: and stress scenarios, inparticular a delay in receiving considering the impact of any delays in the receipt the cash fromanticipated disposals.
In assessing the of cash proceeds from the Groups asset disposals: robustness of the assessment, we have taken assurance confirming, through enquiry, the consistent application from the level to which oil prices would have to fall ofthe cash flow at risk methodology toassess the for a sustained period for thestressed scenario to sensitivity of the underlying assumptions used become a reality.
in the going concernreview: and We consider the decision to prepare the Financial agreeing the standby facilities to underlying statements on a going concern basis is appropriate.
agreements and assessing the concentration risk.
Our application of materiality not have a significant impact on the full year thescope of the Group audit and the level We apply the concept of materiality both Business Performance.
However, there have of work to be performed at each location inplanning and performing our audit, and been a number of material impairments, which included thefollowing: the financial significance inevaluating the effect of misstatements have been audited individually and infull.
and specific risks of the location: and the onouraudit and on the Financial statements.
effectiveness of the control environment and On the basis of our risk assessments, together Forthe purposes of determining whether the monitoring activities, including Group-wide with our assessment of the Groups overall Financial statements are free from material controls andrecent internal audit findings.
control environment, our judgement was misstatement we define materiality as the that overall performance materiality i. e. our Following our assessment of the risk of magnitude of misstatement that makes it tolerance for misstatement in an individual material misstatement to the Group Financial probable that the economic decisions of a account or balance for the Group should be statements, we selected seven components reasonably knowledgeable person, relying 50% 2013: 50% of planning materiality, namely 2013: seven which represent the principal onthe Financial statements, would be $150 million 2013: $187 million.
Our objective business units within the Groups two changedor influenced.
in adopting this approach was to ensure reportable segments and account for We initially determined materiality for the that total uncorrected and undetected audit 78% 2013: 80% ofthe Groups total assets Group to be $300 million 2013: $375 million, differences in all accounts did not exceed and 75% 2013: 75% ofthe Groups Business which is approximately 5% 2013: 5% of our materiality level of $300 million.
Business Performance profit before tax, and Audit work at individual components is The components selected, together with approximately 1% 2013: 1% of total equity.
undertaken based on a percentage of our total theallocated performance materiality, Wehave calculated materiality with reference performance materiality.
The performance wereasfollows: tothe Groups Business Performance as materiality set for each component is based weconsider this to be one of the principal Location and allocated performance materiality $ million onthe relative size of the component and considerations for members of the Company Australia full audit 113 ourview of the risk of misstatement at that in assessing the financial performance of Brazil specific audit procedures 30 component.
In the current year the range the Group.
This is on the basis that Business Egypt specific audit procedures 30 ofperformance materiality allocated to Performance excludes one-off items and fair UK & Norway full audit 56 components was $30 million to $113 million.
value measurement of commodity contracts.
GEMS full audit 90 Thisis set out in more detail in section6below.
It is the key earnings measure discussed when Kazakhstan full audit 56 the Group presents the financial results.
We agreed with the Audit Committee Treasury specific audit procedures 98 This provided a basis for determining the thatwewould report to the Committee all nature, timing and extent of risk assessment auditdifferences in excess of $15 million Four of these locations were subject to a full procedures, identifying and assessing the risk 2013:$18 million, as well as differences below audit 2013: four, whilst at the remaining three of material misstatement and determining that threshold that, in our view, warranted 2013: three specific audit procedures were thenature, timing and extent of further audit reporting on qualitative grounds.
performed, including full audit of the accounts procedures.
Our evaluation of materiality We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements that were impacted by our assessed risks of requires professional judgement and against both the quantitative measures of material misstatement.
For the remaining necessarily takes into account qualitative materiality discussed above and in the light components, we performed other procedures as wellas quantitative considerations ofother relevant qualitative considerations.
to confirm there were no significant risks of implicit inthe definition.
material misstatement in the Group Financial 6.
An overview of the scope of our audit The oil price declined significantly during the statements.
For those items excluded from Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation course of our audit.
The significant decline Business Performance, primarily impairment ofmateriality and our allocation of that was in the fourth quarter of the year and did charges, we applied a similar approach materiality determined our audit scope.
The whereby our in-scope component audit factors that we considered when assessing Business Performance excludes discontinued operations, disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments and certain other exceptional items.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BG GROUP PLC CONTINUED 87 teams performed audit procedures onitems the information given in the Strategic report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do generated at the locations including Australia, and the Directors report for the financial not accept or assumeresponsibility to anyone Egypt and North Sea pre-tax impairment yearfor which the Financial statements other than the Company and the Companys charges.
The Group audit team performed areprepared is consistent with the members as a body, for our audit work, for this procedures on the remaining itemsincluding Financialstatements.
report, orfor the opinions we have formed.
the US and Tunisia pre-tax impairment 10.
The scope of our audit of the charges and tax items.
Matters on which we are required Financial statements to report by exception The charts below illustrate the coverage An audit involves obtaining evidence about We have nothing to report in respect obtained from the work performed by theamounts and disclosures in the Financial ofthefollowing: ourcomponent teams: statements sufficient to give reasonable Under International Standards on Auditing ISAs assurance that the Financial statements are BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: UK and Ireland we are required to report to free from material misstatement, whether PROFIT BEFORE TAX you if, in our opinion, information inthe caused by fraud or error.
This includes an % Annual Report and Accounts is: assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the materially inconsistent with the information parent Companys circumstances and have inthe audited Financial statements: or been consistently applied and adequately apparently materially incorrect based disclosed: the reasonableness of significant on, ormaterially inconsistent with, our accounting estimates made by the Directors: knowledgeof the Group acquired in the and the overall presentation of the Financial courseof performing our audit: or statements.
In addition, we read all the is otherwise misleading.
financial and non-financial information in theAnnual Report and Accounts to identify In particular, we are required to consider material inconsistencies with the audited whether we have identified any inconsistencies Financial statements and to identify any 67% Full audit between our knowledge acquired during the information that is apparently materially 8% Specic audit procedures audit and the directors statement that they incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 25% Other procedures consider the annual report is fair, balanced and with, the knowledge acquired by us in the understandable and whether the annual report course of performing the audit.
If we become TOTAL ASSETS appropriately discloses those matters that we aware of any apparent material misstatements % communicated to the audit committee which or inconsistencies we consider the implications we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 11.
The respective responsibilities required to report to you if, in our opinion: of Directors and auditor adequate accounting records have not As explained more fully in the Statement beenkept by the parent Company, or of Directors Responsibilities set out on returnsadequate for our audit have not been page 81, the Directors are responsible for the received from branches not visited by us: or preparation of the Financial statements the parent Company Financial statements andfor being satisfied that they give a true andthe part of the Directors Remuneration andfairview.
Our responsibility is to audit report to be audited are not in agreement andexpress an opinion on the Financial 49% Full audit withthe accounting records and returns: or statements in accordance with applicable 29% Specic audit procedures certain disclosures of Directors remuneration law and lSAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards 22% Other procedures specified by law are not made: or require ustocomply with the Auditing Practices we have not received all the information BoardsEthical Standards for Auditors.
andexplanations we require for our audit.
The Group audit team continued to follow aprogramme of planned visits that has been Under the Listing Rules we are required designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory toreview: Auditor visits each of the locations where theGroup audit scope was focused atleast the Directors statement, set out on ALLISTER WILSON once every two years and the most significant page 81, in relation to going concern: and SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR ofthem at least once a year.
For all full audit the part of the Corporate Governance components, in addition to the location visit, Statement relating to the Companys for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, theGroup audit team reviewed keyworking compliance with thenine provisions of the Statutory Auditor papers and participated in the component UKCorporate Governance Code specified London teams planning, including the component forour review.
teams discussion of fraud anderror.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed Notes: This report is made solely to the Companys bythe Companies Act 2006 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BGGroup plc web site members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter In our opinion: isthe responsibility ofthe Directors: the work carried out 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our by theauditor does not involve consideration ofthese the part of the Directors Remuneration audit work has been undertaken sothat we matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial reportto be audited has been properly might state to the Companys members those statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
prepared in accordance with the Companies matters we are required tostate to them in 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governingthe preparation Act2006: and an auditors report and fornoother purpose.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
