64 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors report to the members of Alliance Trust PLC changed the percentage applied to align more closely with other Opinion on financial statements of comparable companies.
Alliance Trust PLC We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report In our opinion the financial statements: to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 603,900 2013: 1.7 million, as well as differences below that threshold give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters of the Groups profit and the Parent Companys profit for that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the the year then ended: financial statements.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as An overview of the scope of our audit adopted by the European Union: and Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our Group audit scope included the audit of The financial statements comprise the Group and Parent all subsidiaries and these were subject to a full scope audit for Company balance sheets, the Group and Parent Company the year ended 31 December 2014.
Audits were performed for income statements, the Group and Parent Company statements local statutory purposes at a local materiality level calculated by of comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company reference to the scale of the business concerned.
statements of changes in equity, the Group and Parent Company statements of cash flows, and the related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Our assessment of risks of material preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the misstatement European Union.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the Going concern allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 47 that the Group is a going concern.
We The Audit Committee has requested that while not required confirm that: under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant findings in respect of these we have concluded that the directors use of the going assessed risks of material misstatement.
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Last year our report included one other risk which is not financial statements is appropriate: and included in our report this year: risk of management override of we have not identified any material uncertainties that may internal control.
Whilst we still consider this to be a significant cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as risk, it is not considered to have had the greatest effect on a going concern.
our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups The description of risks below should be read in conjunction ability to continue as a going concern.
with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 46.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed Our application of materiality in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts financial statements that makes it probable that the economic or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be modified with respect to any of the risks described below, and changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 30.2 million, which is approximately 1% of net assets.
This is a change of approach from 2013, where materiality of 86.4 million was based on 3% of Net Assets.
We have Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 65 How the scope of our audit Risk responded to the risk Findings Valuation and ownership of listed investments Listed investments represent the most Valuation was assessed by understanding We did not identify any differences that significant number on the balance sheet the design and implementation of key exceeded 1% between the prices used by and are the main driver of the Groups controls around listed investments and by the Group for valuing its listed investments performance.
Listed investments the testing of 100% of the valuations of and the independent pricing sources used in our testing.
represented 91% of total assets of the listed investments directly with independent Group at 31 December 2014 see notes 9 pricing sources.
Any differences over 1% and 23. were investigated further.
There is a risk that the prices quoted in respect of the listed investments held by the Group may not be reflective of fair value.
No findings were identified from our testing There is a risk over the recording and We reviewed the SSAE16 controls report performed on the SSAE16 controls report.
custody of listed investments, and whether to understand the controls in place at listed investments recorded are the the custodian over the ownership of No findings were identified from our testing property of the Group.
We have also assessed of the custodian confirmation.
whether the service auditors were professionally competent and that the scope of the controls tested were appropriate to give us assurance over the risk identified.
We tested ownership of 100% of listed investments by confirming the holdings at year end with the independent custodian and reconciling the confirmation to the Groups accounting records.
Any differences were investigated further.
Valuation of unlisted investments Unlisted investments are valued using We tested the design and implementation Investments in subsidiaries methodologies agreed by management of controls around the valuation of unlisted We found that the assumptions used in the and there are key inputs to the valuation investments.
In addition we tailored our valuation of the investments in subsidiaries calculations which reflect managements substantive testing to reflect the different were within a reasonable range and that the judgement see note 23.
There is a risk categories of unlisted investments held in methodology applied was appropriate in that the application of an inappropriate the portfolio see note 23.
This testing all material respects.
We noted that there valuation methodology and or the use of included reviewing and challenging was a balanced spread of values within an inappropriate assumptions could result in managements valuations for a sample acceptable range.
the valuation of unlisted investments being of unlisted investments, focusing on materially misstated.
the appropriateness of the valuation Private Equity methodology and assumptions used within We found instances where management the calculations e. g. cash flow projections: had used an incorrect price within growth projections: discount rate used.
their valuation for two private equity investments.
We assessed the impact of these errors and concluded that they did not result in a significant difference in the determination of fair value or the overall results recognised.
If the correct prices had been used, the net asset position of the Group would be approximately 1.1m lower at 31 December 2014 which we have reported to the audit committee.
Mineral rights No findings were identified from our testing performed.
66 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 How the scope of our audit Risk responded to the risk Findings Application of IFRS 10 No findings were identified from our IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, We have reviewed and challenged testing performed.
incorporating Investment Entities managements consideration of the impact Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and of IFRS 10 including their assessment of IAS 27, became effective on 1 January whether Alliance Trust plc has met the criteria of an investment entity and their 2014.
As disclosed in note 2 the impact subsequent application of investment of this new accounting standard has entities exception to consolidation.
had a significant impact on determining the entities which are required to be We have tested the consolidation process consolidated within the Groups financial to assess whether the conclusions reached statements.
have been appropriately applied in the There is a risk that management have not preparation of the consolidated financial fully considered the impact of this new statements.
In addition we have assessed accounting standard which could result in the adequacy of the disclosures presented the consolidated financial statements not within the financial statements resulting being prepared in accordance with IFRS 10. from the implementation of IFRS 10.
Directors remuneration Opinion on other matters prescribed Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in by the Companies Act 2006 our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not In our opinion: been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Corporate Governance Statement the information given in the Strategic Report and the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of Directors Report for the financial year for which the the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys financial statements are prepared is consistent with the compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance financial statements.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Matters on which we are required Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report to report by exception Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information Adequacy of explanations received and in the annual report is: accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited you if, in our opinion: financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially we have not received all the information and explanations inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in we require for our audit: or the course of performing our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not otherwise misleading.
been received from branches not visited by us: or In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired the parent company financial statements are not in during the audit and the directors statement that they consider agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 67 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Calum Thomson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 5 March 2015
