ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Allied Minds plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 97 to 151.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value $488.
0 million Refer to page 89 Audit Committee Report and pages 127 to 131 financial disclosures The Group owns 25 subsidiaries in which it has ownership stakes of between 48% and 100%.
The results and financial position of the subsidiaries are consolidated in the group accounts.
Although the fair values of the Groups holdings in subsidiaries are not included in the Groups Statement of Financial Position, the financial statements do include additional disclosure in relation to the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value of the subsidiaries, as, in the Directors view, the fair value of the subsidiaries is very pertinent to the shareholders and other users of the financial statements.
The valuation methodologies are based primarily on net present value or risk-adjusted net present value from discounted cash flows.
A small minority of the valuations are based on recent third party investment or asset-based methodologies see note x for more details.
The Groups subsidiaries are, for the most part, still at the development stage and the majority do not yet generate revenues.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting the trading of such companies and the relevance of the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value disclosures in the Group accounts, this has been determined to be a significant risk.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, Assessing the appropriateness of the valuation model used for each subsidiary, obtaining an understanding of how the forecasts are compiled and assessing for consistency with the approach taken in the prior year.
We obtained and analysed the valuations prepared by an external expert on behalf of the company.
We used our own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used in the valuations.
indb 92 25 04 2015 02:07 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued We critically assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions underlying the forecasts, including assumptions over projected revenue and operating costs and the discount rates applied, assessing also for consistency with the assumptions used in the prior year.
In doing this we used our knowledge of each subsidiary and its industry with reference to both internal management information and externally derived data and benchmarks, including market size data, royalty rates and competitor analyses based on information from public material.
Where valuations are based on the implied value from the most recent third party investment we assessed the accuracy of the data used and the reasonableness of the conclusion in the context of the wider value of the entity.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures were consistent with the valuations performed and whether the groups disclosures adequately highlight the uncertainty inherent in the valuations.
Share based incentives Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP $1.
3 million Refer to page 90 Audit Committee Report, page 108 accounting policy and pages 117 to 118 financial disclosures The risk During 2014 the group made equity-settled awards over 4,619,842 ordinary shares under a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP made to employees, officers and directors of, and other individuals providing services to the Company and its subsidiaries which has resulted in a share based payments charge in the Groups financial statements.
The respective share based payments charges are principally determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded and the number of shares expected to be issued.
The choice of valuation methodology and the inputs used to calculate the initial fair value and number of shares expected to be issued is one of the key judgemental areas of our audit.
This is deemed to be an area of significant risk in view of the materiality of the amounts involved, the sensitivity of these amounts to a change in the assumptions used and the technical complexity for example, in order to value the total shareholder return element the Group utilises the Monte Carlo simulation analysis.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, Assessing the appropriateness of the valuation model used and evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group to value awards and estimate the number of shares that will eventually be issued.
We agreed key inputs in the models to internally and externally derived sources.
We used our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing the key inputs which require significant estimation and judgement in their selection and can have a significant impact on the derived fair value and estimate of the number of shares that will be issued, specifically the risk free rate, share volatility, leaver assumptions and performance conditions.
These key inputs were assessed for reasonableness by reference to external data or internal information such as past history in the case of leaver assumptions, along with reports from the groups external consultants.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the key assumptions related to the scheme.
indb 93 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued Capitalisation of development costs $0.
2 million Refer to page 90 Audit Committee Report, page 106 accounting policy and pages 123 to 124 financial disclosures The risk The Group incurs significant research and development costs.
Due to the early stage of development of most of the Groups subsidiaries, management has limited history on which to base its assessment of both technical feasibility and commercial viability in order to ascertain whether the development costs have met the criteria for capitalisation.
There is therefore a risk that development costs which have met the requirements of the relevant accounting standards have not been capitalised, and this is therefore one of the key judgemental areas of our audit.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, Critically assessing on a product by product basis the Groups assessment of whether technical and commercial feasibility had been achieved.
The assessment of technical viability included reviewing whether successful product testing had been performed and whether regulatory approval had been achieved.
In relation to commercial viability we challenged the assumptions made as to whether the current market proposition, sales recorded or orders received in relation to specific products were indicative of commercial feasibility, using our knowledge of each subsidiary and of the industry in which it operates.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures and related judgements in relation to the capitalisation of development costs.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $0.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of total expenses of which it represents 1.
5%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for the members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group, since the Groups activities are currently principally in relation to expenditure on developing forms of intellectual property which can be exploited commercially to generate income and growth in the future.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of $45,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
All subsidiaries in the Group are located in the US and are centrally administered and therefore we performed the audit as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information using the materiality level set out above.
The audit covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, and total Group assets.
The audit is performed by the UK Group team assisted by a US component auditor.
The UK Group audit team issued detailed audit instructions to the component auditor.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by the audit which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team maintained close communication with the component audit team throughout the engagement including but not limited to discussions and meetings in relation to risks identified, the audit approach to be adopted, the results of procedures performed and significant findings.
indb 94 25 04 2015 02:07 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 51 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
indb 95 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Charles le Strange Meakin Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL 28 April 2015 Page 96 of 152 c111026.
