Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 The annual review of the Chairmans fee A Group-wide review of remuneration Discretion exercised by the Committee during the year During the year, the Committee exercised its discretion in respect of the Remuneration Policy in respect of the following matter: In determining the status of Brian Carpenter as a good leaver and in applying its discretion concerning his entitlement to receive earned and deferred PC and CB payments and his eligibility under the PSP and LTIP schemes.
External advisers The Committees independent remuneration adviser is New Bridge Street NBS.
NBS advises the Committee on structuring and using the Groups performance-related incentives, and on remuneration policy generally.
NBS also advises on remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
NBS operates independently in the Aon plc group of companies, which has certain trading relationships with the Companys subsidiaries.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and has confirmed its compliance with the Code.
A copy of the statement regarding the relationship with NBS can be found on the Companys website at www.
NBSs role of providing ongoing support and advice to the Committee over the entire remuneration year included: Advising on the increase in award levels under the PSP Providing performance measurement relating to the PSP and LTIP Updating on developments in remuneration practices Supporting and advising in relation to the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills requirements Advising on increases of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees Advising on increases of the Executive Directors total remuneration: supporting the review of the Directors remuneration report Supporting the shareholder consultation process Advising on updating SIP and SAYE scheme rules The Committee is exclusively responsible for reviewing, selecting and appointing its advisers.
The Committee reviewed its appointment of NBS during the year and confirmed its reappointment as adviser, and is satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
During the year, the fee payable to NBS was 63,723 2013: 93,700.
This included advice on other HR matters and on the Regulations and other new legislation.
Shareholder and broader context The Committee considers the external environment in which the Company operates and guidance issued by institutional shareholders.
During the year, the Chairman of both the Remuneration Committee and Amlin plc consulted investors on general and specific remuneration matters.
In particular, the Committee consulted with investors regarding the Directors remuneration report and the Remuneration Policy.
The AGM and EGM of Amlin plc were held on 22 May and 24 November 2014 respectively.
A vote was taken on a show of hands at the AGM and a poll at the EGM on each resolution at each meeting.
The results of the proxies are set out below.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion if the votes For and Against a resolution.
These votes include those votes giving the Chairman discretion.
The shares in issue on the respective general meetings where: 22 May 2014 24 November 2014 Total shares in issue 504,799,359 504,865,900 Shares held in treasury 4,076,070 4,003,650 Status of report As required by the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Group Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, in accordance with which this report has been prepared, the sections entitled Directors remuneration received for 2013 and 2014, Executive Directors Capital Builder Plan participations and estimates to date, Executive Directors Performance Share Plan, Long-Term Incentive Plan and share options participations and Executive Directors pensions have been audited by  LLP.
By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee Mark Stevens Group Company Secretary 27 February 2015 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 101 Directors report Amlins Articles set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election and The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated re-election of Directors.
A Director may be removed either by a unanimous financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December resolution of fellow Directors or by an ordinary resolution of Amlin plc in a 2014.
This report on pages 102 to 103 together with the Strategic general meeting.
The Board may appoint additional Directors at any time but Report on pages 1 to 63 form the management report as required such appointees must, if they wish to continue, be elected by shareholders under the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
by an ordinary resolution at the AGM following their appointment.
Directors may also be appointed by election at the AGM.
The Articles also provide that Share capital, treasury shares and dividends no term of office may exceed the period between election, or re-election, The Companys share capital during the year comprised a single class of by shareholders and the AGM in the third year following such election or ordinary shares of 28.125p each.
There were 504,865,900 shares in issue re-election.
Although the Board complies with the UK Corporate Governance at the year end 2013: 504,799,359 including shares held in treasury.
Code annual re-election provision for FTSE 350 companies, it is not intended to amend the Articles in this respect.
At the 2014 AGM the Directors were given the authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert, any security into shares up The Articles provide that, following a Directors election by shareholders to a nominal value of 46,941,279 which is equivalent to approximately at the AGM immediately following his or her initial appointment by the one third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company Board, each Directors term of office before being required to submit exclusive of treasury shares as at 1 April 2014.
In addition, the himself or herself to shareholders for re-election is three years.
This Directors are authorised to allot shares, or grant rights to subscribe term has historically been shortened to one year for any Non-Executive for, or convert, any security into shares up to a further nominal value Director who has served on the Board for nine years or more.
As referred of 46,941,279 in connection with a rights issue only.
to above, it is intended that all Directors will generally submit themselves for re-election annually.
At the 2014 AGM the Company was given authority to purchase 50,070,697 ordinary shares.
The minimum price that may be paid Directors interests for each share is 28.125p and the maximum price will be an amount The interests of the Directors and their related parties who have equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of the interests in the shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange for the five except where indicated otherwise, are set out below.
business days prior to any purchase or the highest current independent bid for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange Directors interests in shares at the time of the purchase.
At date of At date of The present authority for the Company to purchase its own shares signing 2014 signing 2013 will expire at the 2015 AGM and it will be proposed that the Companys 1 report report authority to purchase its own shares be renewed.
Further details will S C W Beale 327,644 332,016 be contained in the Notice of AGM.
J Chakraverty 8,000 8,000 R H Davey 10,000 10,000 No shares were bought back into treasury during the year 2013: nil.
756,372 shares were transferred out of treasury during the year to M D Feinstein 4,000 4,000 service exercises of employee share options 2013: 716,586, leaving R A Hextall 169,043 168,415 3,495,713 shares in treasury at the year end 2013: 4,252,085.
S C R Jemmett-Page 700 700 The Group issued 66,541 ordinary shares on 7 November 2014 in O L E Peterken 4,000 n a conjunction with the Group increasing its interest in Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP from 40% to 75%.
The shares issued have the same rights C E L Philipps 614,063 613,435 as all other shares in issue.
The fair value of the shares issued 2 Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 15,388 15,388 amounted to 289,000 434p per share.
Former Directors 3 B D Carpenter 381,577 380,949 There have been no issues of shares or further share buy backs or 4 transfers into treasury since the year end but a further 70,735 shares had, Sir Alan Collins 2,927 2,927 by 27 February 2015, been transferred from treasury to satisfy employee Notes: share options, leaving 3,424,978 shares in treasury at that date.
Or at date of retirement if earlier.
Includes 1,500 shares held non-beneficially as a bare trustee.
B D Carpenter stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2014.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: 4.
Sir Alan Collins retired from the Board on 22 May 2014.
Ordinary shares In the case of the three Executive Directors, Messrs Beale, Hextall and Paid interim dividend of 8.1p per share on 2 October 2014 to shareholders Philipps, the above holdings include beneficial interests held through on the register of members on 5 September 2014 2013: 7.8p Amlins Share Incentive Plan SIP and details of their interests in share Proposed final dividend of 18.9p per share to be paid on 28 May 2015 options and long-term incentive plans are set out in the Directors to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on remuneration report on pages 84 to 101 in this governance section 17 April 2015 2013: 18.2p of the Annual Report, as are details of the total interests of the trustees Total ordinary dividend of 27p per share 2013: 26.0p of the SIP and of the Amlins Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
Proposed special dividend of 15p per share to be paid on 28 May 2015 Details of transactions between the Group and Directors who served to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on during the year are set out in note 21 to the Accounts.
17 April 2015 No Directors have any other interests in the shares or any other securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Those shareholders wishing to use any of these dividends to purchase further shares were, and are, able to participate in a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Substantial shareholdings Details of the plan are available on the Companys website and shareholders Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCAs DTRs is are being reminded of the plan as this Annual Report is published.
published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2014, the following information had been Directors received in accordance with DTR5 from holders of notifiable interests The Directors biographical details are contained within the Corporate in the Companys issued share capital.
governance report and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Amlin plc 102 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Substantial shareholders interests The current indemnities of the Directors of the Company were entered Number of % of shares into during 2008, with the exception of Mrs Jemmett-Page 2012, 1 shares held in issue Mrs Chakraverty 2013 and Mr Peterken 2014.
All of these Invesco Limited 65,178,940 12.9 indemnities remain in force at the date of this report.
Baillie Gifford & Co 25,136,807 5.1 Authorisation of Directors conflicts of interest BlackRock, Inc. 27,781,395 5.55 The Companys Articles permit the authorisation of a Directors Majedie Asset Management Ltd 23,663,478 4.8 potential conflict of interest or duty, for instance arising from a Directors AXA S. A.
23,197,732 4.7 appointment as a Director of another company which may have a JP Morgan Chase & Co 19,624,490 4.0 business relationship with the Group.
Such authorisations may be given Note: by the remaining Directors who are independent of the potential conflict.
Based on shares in issue, excluding treasury shares, as at 31 December 2014 A number of authorisations have been approved by the Board in this of 501,370,187. manner.
Such authorisations do not remove a Directors duty to ensure that any actual conflict of interest or duty, should it arise, is dealt with There are no special rights attached to any of the Shares.
No changes have appropriately, usually by the Director taking no part in the relevant Board been disclosed in the period 31 December 2014 to 27 February 2015. or Committee decision.
A register of approved conflicts is maintained and available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office.
Corporate governance and Directors remuneration The Boards Corporate governance report and reports from the Boards Going concern Nomination, Audit and Risk & Solvency Committees on pages 66 to 83 are The Groups business, risk and financial management, performance and incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of Directors remuneration position, together with factors that are likely to affect future development, and of the Boards Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors are described in the Strategy and performance section of this Annual remuneration report.
Capital management strategy, which covers how regulatory and economic capital needs are measured and how capital Employees is deployed, is described under Financial review on pages 56 to 61.
Copies of the Groups employment policies are available from the Group The financial position of the Group, including commentary on cash and Company Secretary on request.
Some apply to the whole Group whilst investment levels, currency management, insurance liability management, others apply to the UK with local variations outside the UK.
They cover liquidity and borrowings, is also covered in that section.
professional qualifications: family leave: flexible working: sabbaticals: staff harassment: and equal opportunities.
The Groups Health & Safety policy In addition, note 2 to the accounts describes capital management and details of its local application are publicised to staff, including by needs and policies, and notes 12 and 13 cover market and intranet.
Its operation in the UK is monitored by a staff Health & Safety underwriting respectively, which includes liquidity and credit risks Committee.
As Chief Finance & Operations Officer, Mr Hextall is which may affect the financial position of the Group.
responsible for the oversight of health and safety throughout the Group.
The Group has considerable financial resources to meet its financial needs The Groups Equal Opportunities policy aims to ensure that no employee, and, in much of the Group, manages a mature portfolio of insurance risk in application for initial employment or as an existing employee including through an experienced and stable team.
The Directors believe that the in the event of a change in his or her circumstances, receives less Group is well positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the favourable treatment because of his or her gender including gender current economic environment.
reassignment, marital or family status, actual or perceived sexual orientation, age, ethnic origin, race, colour, nationality, national origin, After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the creed, political affiliation, part-time status, disability including the training Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational career development and promotion of disabled persons, or any other existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the condition, unless differing treatment can be shown to be legally justifiable.
going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Further information is set out in the Resources and Relationships section Directors statement on the disclosure of information to the auditors on pages 38 to 47 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Each Director at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: Amlin operates a SIP for all employees, where we are legally allowed so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information to operate such a plan.
For employees located in the UK, Bermuda and of which the Companys auditors are unaware Singapore, the shares are held in Trust on behalf on the employee.
Whilst they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as these shares are held in Trust, the employee has full shareholder rights, and a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant is entitled to receive any declared dividend and exercise their voting rights.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Other Statutory Disclosures Information regarding the future development of Amlin, post year This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance end events, overseas branches, employee involvement, research and with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. development and greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 63 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Independent Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Political donations  LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit The Group made no political donations during the year 2013: nil.
Committee to determine their remuneration.
Annual General Meeting By Order of the Board The Notice of AGM, to be held at 9.00am on 21 May 2015 at the offices of the Company at St. Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3A 8ND, is contained in a separate circular to shareholders which is being mailed or otherwise provided to shareholders at the same time as this report.
Mark Stevens Directors indemnities Group Company Secretary The Company has made third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit 27 February 2015 of its Directors and certain Directors of the Companys subsidiaries.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 103 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements Transparency Rules in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the section of the Annual Report entitled Board of Directors confirm that, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true the Strategic Report and Directors report contained in the Annual and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these of the business and the position of the Company and Group, financial statements, the Directors are required to: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the and prudent Group website, www.
Legislation in the UK governing the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed legislation in other jurisdictions.
and explained in the financial statements prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis By Order of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Mark Stevens disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Group Company Secretary of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 27 February 2015 financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee on the process, all the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Amlin plc 104 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc Report on the Group financial statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion, Amlin plcs Group financial statements on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
financial statements : We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for then ended: example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved have been properly prepared in accordance with International making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of European Union: and management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of material misstatement due to fraud.
What we have audited The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect Amlin plcs financial statements comprise: on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on the next page.
We the consolidated statement of profit or loss and consolidated have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific statement of other comprehensive income for the year ended areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a 31 December 2014: whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks then ended: identified by our audit.
the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 11 million, which represents 5% of the five-year weighted average profit before tax.
We scoped our Group audit by focusing our work on three underwriting components, Syndicate 2001 whose sole member is Amlin Corporate Member Limited, Amlin AG and Amlin Europe N. V. described in the Overview of our business section of the financial statements.
Our risk assessment highlighted the following areas of focus: estimation of outstanding claims and reinsurers share of outstanding claims risk of inappropriate revenue recognition control assessment and acquisition accounting for Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP the valuation of intangible assets the valuation of level three investments.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 105 Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Estimation of outstanding claims and reinsurers We understood, assessed and tested the design and operational effectiveness share of outstanding claims of the governance and controls in Amlins reserving process, the key feature Outstanding claims are described in the Audit being the quarterly reserve committee which we attended throughout the year Committee report on page 78 and Note 13 Insurance and assessed as providing robust challenge to the assumptions used in setting liabilities and reinsurance assets to the financial the level of reserves.
We assessed the Directors estimates based on the methodology, assumptions Gross outstanding claims continue to be a significant area and judgements made.
Applying our industry knowledge and experience, our of focus, particularly in respect of catastrophe losses and assessment considered whether the methodology and assumptions were in line attritional loss ratios by class of business.
This is due both with recognised actuarial techniques and best practices.
to the inherent uncertainty in estimating total losses arising from known and unknown events at year end and to the The methodology and assumptions were considered appropriate and magnitude of this estimated reserve, together with the the reserving philosophy year on year was considered to be consistent.
Additionally, we performed independent re-projections on selected classes Actuarial techniques are used to determine these reserves.
For those classes, we compared our re-projected claims reserves Underlying these methods are a number of explicit or to those booked by management to enable us to investigate any differences implicit assumptions relating to the expected settlement in excess of our pre-determined threshold: no differences above that threshold amount and settlement pattern of claims.
Reserves are established above an actuarial best estimate, In performing our work we considered the accuracy with the benefit of reflecting a risk premium relating to the uncertainty of hindsight of the Groups previous estimates through examination of the the actual level of claims incurred.
This is inherently prior-year development.
We also tested the accuracy and completeness of judgemental and therefore a key area of focus for the audit.
underlying company data used in setting reserves.
Relative to the prior year, we consider the estimation risk We tested the recoverability of reinsurance assets by obtaining the credit rating surrounding the estimation of outstanding claims and and payment history of reinsurers and considered whether they indicated that reinsurers share of outstanding claims to have increased the reinsurance assets might not be recoverable, concluding that they did not.
due to a move in focus from an underwriter led to actuarial-led reserving process.
Whilst this is an improvement in the process, change poses increased risk whilst the new processes become business as usual.
Risk of inappropriate revenue recognition We understood, assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness Revenue recognition is described in the Audit of the governance and controls over the monitoring and collation of revenue Committee report on page 79 and in Note 1 Summary written through third parties and associated estimates.
In particular we have of significant accounting policies and critical focused on managements monitoring controls of EPI versus forecast and accounting judgements and estimates, on page 118. settlements to date.
A significant proportion of revenue recognised in a year We tested the historic accuracy of EPI for existing arrangements by comparing is estimated premium income EPI whereby the extent EPI booked to subsequent cash settlements received and investigating of coverage under a given contract at the year-end and, differences above a pre-determined threshold for a sample of contracts.
hence the premium income in respect of it, is unknown No exceptions were noted in our sample.
Such commercial arrangements can be complex and significant judgement We consider the adoption of exposure weighted earning profiles to be an is applied in estimating the premium income.
enhancement given it more accurately reflects the nature of the incidence of risk and is more in line with market practice.
The EPI for a year of account and adjustments to previous years of account can have a significant impact on the profit We have challenged the Directors methodology and assumptions in respect for a financial year.
The main assumptions which impact the adjustment are the selection of lines of business, specific contracts to be risk weighted and the For each of the underwriting entities EPI is a material area risk profile used.
We assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions through of judgement.
consideration of loss history and exposure, finding them to be reasonable.
The Directors have taken the decision to move to an In addition we recalculated managements adjustment and reviewed the exposure weighted earning profile for the North American formulae used to ensure the calculation was appropriate and accurate.
catastrophe class based on windstorm losses and to apply this to the 2014 earned premium to bring premium We reviewed the earning profile with consideration to IAS 8 and have earnings in line with how the associated losses are concluded that it represents a change in estimate and is therefore appropriately earned.
Both the timing and the judgemental nature accounted for.
of this adjustment mean it is a heightened area of risk.
Amlin plc 106 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Control assessment and acquisition accounting for LCP We read the Heads of Terms, revised Partnership Deed and Share Purchase This is discussed in the Audit Committee report on agreement, which confirmed that Amlin has control over LCP and that, from page 79, and the Notes to the financial statements the date of the acquisition it should be accounted for as a subsidiary.
We noted Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies that the board has the power to influence LCPs relevant activities.
The board is and critical accounting judgements and estimates, composed of two Amlin members, two individual members, and one independent on page 118, and Note 3 Business Combinations member each with one vote on board matters, with a simple majority required on page 127. for approval.
While initially this may suggest neither party has power to direct relevant activities, we noted that Amlin has the right to appoint and remove the Amlin has increased its ownership share of LCP from 40% to independent member, giving Amlin control of the independent members vote.
75% during the year and consequently LCP is now accounted for as a subsidiary as opposed to an associate in the prior year.
We read the Partnership Deed to ensure that the deferred consideration Accounting considerations, which arise as a result, involve a had been correctly accounted for based on the substance of the transaction.
The key considerations have We assessed the appropriateness of the forecasted result used in the deferred been the control assessment of whether Amlin now controls consideration calculation and in particular managements analysis of worst and LCP under IFRSs and assessment of how the Directors best case scenarios.
We concluded that the forecasted results were reasonable determined the value of the consideration.
The consideration for the purposes of valuing the deferred consideration.
has a deferred element based on LCPs forecasted result and is therefore a judgemental area.
In addition we reperformed the deferred consideration calculation and reviewed the formulae to ensure the calculation was appropriate and accurate, with no errors noted.
Valuation of intangible assets Customer relationships intangible assets and goodwill were generated as a As principally described in Note 15 Goodwill and result of the increased investment in LCP.
We tested the valuation of goodwill intangible assets on page 184. and customer relationships intangible assets and resulting goodwill through testing of the Directors valuation.
Errors in the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets acquired in the year in respect of the increased investment Specifically, we have assessed the Directors methodology and assumptions by in LCP may lead to a material misstatement.
challenging the key assumptions and comparing them to publicly available data such as interest rates and economic growth projections.
Additionally we have performed The key assumptions underpinning the valuation were the a sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions.
As a result of undertaking these forecasted results of LCP, the weighted average cost of procedures we believe that the assumptions used were reasonable.
capital and the useful life of the customer relationships.
We reperformed the calculations within the valuation model to ensure they were appropriate and accurate.
Additionally, errors in the impairment assessment of existing In testing the impairment assessment of existing intangible assets we have intangible assets may lead to a material misstatement.
evaluated the results of the Directors impairment assessment, including challenging the methodology and the assumptions adopted through consideration of and comparison to publicly available data such as interest rates and economic growth projections.
In addition we performed sensitivity analysis over the Directors assumptions.
The impairment analysis shows significant headroom and our testing has allowed us to conclude this assessment is reasonable.
Valuation of level three investments For the property funds we understood both the methodology and assumptions As described in Note 12 f i to the financial used by the property fund manager through discussions with the fund managers statements on page 148. directly.
We also evaluated the governance and controls that the Directors have in place to monitor the valuations provided by the property fund managers.
The valuation of investments classified as level 3 under IFRS 7 is based on inputs to a valuation model that are In order to assess the Directors judgement that no adjustment was required not based on observable market data.
at 31 December 2014 we assessed the historic accuracy and appropriateness of the Directors valuation by reviewing the accuracy of the prior year As at 31 December 2014, 190 million of level 3 assumptions relative to actual valuation data received subsequently.
investments were recognised in the balance sheet, We noted no significant differences.
of which 181 million were property funds.
In addition, we read correspondence and meeting minutes between Amlin and The Directors used the property fund managers valuations the property fund managers that have occurred since September 2014 and as the basis for valuing these investments.
The latest considered whether any matters discussed indicated that there were movements valuation available from the fund manager was for the in the funds value that should have been recognised.
We have also reviewed all quarter ending September 2014.
As such, the Directors fund statements received since the year end and noted no material movements.
needed to determine whether any movement in valuation should be recognised during the fourth quarter but based Based on the above procedures we believe the Directors approach to the on their assessment no change in valuation was required.
valuation of property funds to be reasonable.
