Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2014 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit For calculations performed on the new system from January 2014 to June 2014, the rates used for calculations are input to the new Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified system from the database and reviewed by a different member We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc of the finance team.
We tested the controls around the input of for the year ended 30 June 2014 set out on pages 73 to 114. the rebate rates on the database to the new system on a sample In our opinion: basis over the period.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Our response in terms of calculation complexity for calculations of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at during the period from July 2013 to December 2013, as well as for 30 June 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the calculations performed outside the new system from January the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 2014 to June 2014, we performed recalculations for the rebates accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as and the input adjustments on a sample basis.
adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : For calculations performed on the new system from January the parent company financial statements have been properly 2014 to June 2014, we performed testing over user access and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as authorisation and testing of changes through inspection of approval applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act documentation and system configurations records.
We also 2006: and performed testing of the interface of the AuM database with the third-party service provider and the system generated reports the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with through retrieving system data and records to ascertain the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards completeness and accuracy of the interface process and reports.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our findings our testing did not identify any deviations in controls Our assessment of risks of material misstatement that would have required us to amend the nature or scope of In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the our planned detailed test work.
We found no significant errors risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our in calculations.
audit were as follows: Classification of seed capital investments Management fee rebates Refer to pages 49-50 Audit and Risk Committee report, Refer to pages 49-50 Audit and Risk Committee report and page 85 page 83 accounting policy and note 21 of the financial accounting policy and note 6 of the financial statements disclosures.
The risk individual investment management agreements include The risk the Group invests in funds that are managed by a Group bespoke complex rebate calculations and these calculations are subsidiary.
If at the time of acquisition, management expect the subject to periodic alterations which increases the risk of error control to be temporary, i. e. less than 12 months, the investments in the determination of net revenue.
This is one of the key areas are classified as held-for-sale HFS and consolidated as HFS assets that our audit is concentrated on because of the need to keep and liabilities rather than on a line-by-line basis.
This is one of the the data used for these calculations up to date and to ensure key judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on because that the calculations are performed in accordance with the there is a risk that management has incorrectly assessed the period relevant agreements.
of holding for the funds which the Group has control over because of the uncertainty involved in determining how long it will take to Our response in terms of rebate rates accuracy we evaluated attract external investors.
This could lead to an incorrect controls around ensuring the fee rebate rates used are accurate classification of HFS investments in the balance sheet and HFS and up to date.
Management has a process whereby the rebate gains and losses in the statement of comprehensive income.
rates are maintained on a separate database that is reviewed and signed off by three teams: legal, distribution and finance.
We Our responses we critically assessed the Directors rationale evaluated the controls by walking through the process and for a for classifying seed capital investments as HFS.
We considered selection of months, we assessed the operating effectiveness of their plans to reduce the Groups holdings in the 12 months the control.
We also agreed a selection of the rebate rates on the following acquisition to below the consolidation threshold, against database to the original investment management agreements.
the pattern of reduction of Groups seed capital investments to the year end and against our own expectations based on our In January 2014, a new system was introduced to automate the experience of Ashmores past practice.
Where, as at the year end, calculation for a majority of management fee rebates.
an HFS fund had already been held for a significant period we For calculations during the period from July 2013 to December examined the changes in holding that occurred in the period and 2013, as well as for the calculations performed outside of the new the Directors specific plans to further reduce the Groups holding system from January 2014 to June 2014, in order to determine that against the particular requirements of accounting standards.
the rates in the database were used in the calculation, for a For all investments, we tested Ashmores holding in absolute selection of calculations, we agreed the rates used to the database.
and percentage terms to independent third-party confirmations.
70 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to th Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashm e members of Ashmo or re e G Gr ro ou up p p pllc c o on nlly y Ye Year ar en ende ded d 3 30 0 Ju June ne 20 2014 14 O Op pini inions ons an and d co conclusi nclusions ons a ar risin ising g fr from om o ou ur r au audit dit F Fo or r c ca alc lcula ulat tiio on ns s p pe er rfo formed rmed on on the the ne new w sy system stem fro from m Ja Janua nuary ry 2 2014 014 We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures on We assessed the competency of the third-party remuneration to to J Ju une ne 2014, 2014, t th he e rat rate es s us used ed for for ca calc lcu ulla at tio ions a ns ar re e inp inpu ut t t to o th the n e ne ew w classification of seed capital investment reflect managements consultant.
For the cash-settled scheme, we also evaluated Ou Our r o op pini inion on on on th the e fin fina an nc cial ial statemen statements ts iis s un unmodi modifi fied ed sy syste stem m fro from m t th he e dat data ab ba as se e a and nd re review viewed ed by by a a d diif ff fe er rent ent me memb mber er plan to dilute the Groups holdings in HFS funds.
those assessments in the light of the movement in the share We We ha have five au aud diit ted ed the the f fiina nanc ncia ial l st stat atem ement ents s of of A Ash shm more ore Gr Gro oup up p pllc c of of th the e f fiina nanc nce e te team.
W We e t te est ste ed d t the he co contr ntro ols ls a ar ro ou und nd t the he inp inpu ut t of of price from the start of the relevant vesting period to the current f for or t the he ye year ar e en nde ded d 3 30 0 J Jun une e 2 20 014 14 set set out out o on n p pag ages es 73 73 t to o 1 114.
Our findings we found that the Groups judgments made in t th he e r re eb ba at te e r ra at te es s o on n t th he e d da at ta ab ba as se e t to o t th he e n ne ew w s sy ys st te em m o on n a a s sam amp plle e year end and the total shareholders return of the peer group In In ou our r opi opinio nion n:: determining these classifications were balanced, that note 4 ba basis sis o ov ver er th the e pe period.
sufficiently discloses the basis of classification judgments and the the f fiina nanc ncia ial l st stat atem ement ents s g giive five a a tr true ue an and d fa fair ir v viie ew w of of th the e s st tat ate e Our Our r re es sp po on ns se e in in term terms s of of ca calcu lcullat ation ion co comp mplex lexiit ty y f fo or r c ca allc cu ulat latiion ons s we found no significant errors in the holdings.
We also assessed whether the disclosure in relation to the of of th the e Gr Grou oups ps a and nd of of t the he par paren ent t com comp pan any ys s affa affair irs s as as at at d du ur rin ing g the the pe peri riod fro od from m J Ju uly ly 20 2013 13 to to D fide ec ce embe mber r 2013 2013, a, as s well well a as s fo for r schemes is sufficient, in particular around the impact of the 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 14 4 a an nd d of of t th he e Gro Group ups s prof profit it for t for th he e y ye ea ar r the then n en ende ded: d: Intangible assets 16.5m the the ca calcu lcullat atio ions ns perf perfo or rm me ed d o ou ut ts side ide t the he n ne ew w s syst ystem em fr from om Ja Janu nuary ary TSR condition on the shares vested for executive Directors.
the the Gr Gro oup up f fiina nanc ncial ial st state atem me ents nts ha have five be been en pr prop oper erly ly pre prepar pare ed d in in Refer to pages 49-50 Audit and Risk Committee report, 20 2014 14 t to o J Ju une ne 20 2014, w 14, we e p pe erf rfor orme med d re reca calcu lcullat atio ions ns f fo or r th the e r re eb ba ate tes s Our findings we had no concerns with the competence or ac accor corda danc nce e w wiit th h Inter Interna nat tio iona final l Fin Fina anc ncia ial l R Rep eport orting ing S St tan andar dard ds s a as s page 82 accounting policy and note 15 of the financial an and d th the e in inpu put t a ad djust justme ments nts o on n a a s sa amp mple le b ba as siis.
s. instruction of the third-party consultant, found the resulting ad adopt opte ed d b by y th the e E Eu uro rope pea an n Un Union ion I IFR FRS Ss s a as s a ad do op pt te ed d by by t the he E EU U : : statements disclosures.
F Fo or r c ca alc lcula ulat tiio on ns s p pe er rfo formed rmed on on the the ne new w sy system stem fro from m Ja Janua nuary ry estimates to be balanced and note 10 disclosures to be sufficient.
the the par pare ent nt c com omp pan any y f fiin nan anc cia ial l s st tat atem ement ents s h hav ave e b be een en pro prop per erlly y The risk intangible assets consist of management contracts 20 2014 14 t to o J Ju une ne 20 2014, w 14, we e p pe erf rfor orme med d te test stin ing g o ov ver er u us ser er a ac cc ce es ss s a and nd Our application of materiality and an overview of the pre prep pa ar re ed d in in ac acco corda rdan nc ce e w wiit th h IF IFR RS Ss s as as ad adop opte ted d b by y th the e E EU U a and nd as as acquired with Ashmore Equities Investment Management US, aut auth ho or risa isat tio ion n a an nd d test testing of ing of ch chan ang ge es s t th hro rou ugh gh ins insp pe ec ct tiio on n of of ap appr prov ova all scope of our audit ap app pllie ied d in in a ac cc co or rd dan ance ce w wiit th h t the he pr prov ovis ision ions s of of th the e C Co om mp pa an nie ies s A Ac ct t LLC in 2011.
They are reviewed for impairment using a value in do docu cume menta ntat tio ion a n and nd sy syste stem m c conf onfigur igurat atio ions ns r re ec cor ord ds s. W. We e a alls so o The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 20 2006: 06: an and d use model, the outcome of which could vary significantly if perf perfo or rm me ed d te test stin ing g of of t th he e int inte erfa rfac ce e of of th the e Au AuM M d da at ta aba base se w wiit th h at 8.6m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark different assumptions were applied.
There are a number of the the t th hir ird-p d-party arty se serv rvic ice e pr prov ovide ider r a an nd d th the e s syst ystem em g ge ener nerat ated ed r rep eport orts s the the f fiina nanc ncia ial l st stat atem ement ents s h hav ave e b be een en pre prepa par re ed d in in a acc ccord ordan ance ce w wiith th of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 5%, which we assumptions used to determine the value in use, including the t thr hro ou ugh r gh ret etr riiev eviin ng g s syst ystem em dat data a a and nd r rec ecor ords ds t to o a as scer cert ta aiin n t th he e the the r re equ quir irem ement ents s of of t the he C Com ompa pan nie ies s Act Act 2 200 006 6 a and nd, as as r reg egard ards s consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the investment performance, the net subscription rate, the operating c co om mp plle et te en ne es ss s a an nd d a ac cc cu ur rac acy y o of f t th he e iin nt ter erf fa ac ce e p pr ro oc ce es ss s a an nd d r re ep po or rt ts s.. the Gr the Gro oup up f fiina nanc ncial st ial state atem me ents, Ar nts, Article 4 ticle 4 of of t the he IIA AS Re S Reg gulat ulatiion.
company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
margin, the net management fee margin, the tax rate and the Ou Our r fi findi findings ngs o ou ur r te testing sting did did no not t id iden enti tify fy a an ny y dev deviatio iation ns s iin n c co on nt tro rols ls discount rate.
The first two assumptions are the key judgmental Our Our assessment assessment of of ri risks sks of of ma mate terial rial mi misstate sstatem men ent t We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee to report to it all that that wo wou ulld d ha have five req requ uiire red us d us t to o a am me end nd t the he na natur ture e or or s sc co ope pe of of areas that our audit is concentrated on because they are dependent corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through IIn n a ar rr riiv viin ng g a at t o ou ur r a au ud diit t o op piin niio on n a ab bo ov five e o on n t th he e f fiin na an nc cia iall s st ta at te eme men nt ts s t th he e our our p plla an nn ne ed d d fide eta taile iled d t te est st wor work k.. W We e fo foun und d no no sig sign nif ific ican ant t err erro or rs s on external market factors.
our audit with a value in excess of 0.4m, in addition to other audit risk risks s of of mat mate er riia all misst misstat atem ement ent th that at h ha ad d t th he e gr great eate est st ef effe fect ct o on n o ou ur r iin n c ca allc cu ulla at tiio ons.
misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted audi audit t w we ere re as as f fo ollows: llows: Our responses our audit procedures included comparison of the reporting on qualitative grounds.
Classi Classifica fication o tion of f seed seed capital in capital inv five estments stments net subscription rates to the actual results in the year ended June M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t f fe ee e r re eb ba at te es s Re Refer fer t to o pa page ges s 4 49 9-5 -50 0 A Au ud dit it a and nd R Riis sk k Co Comm mmitt ittee ee rep repo ort, rt, 2014.
We also compared the investment performance assumption Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by the Re Refer fer t to o pa page ges s 4 49 9-5 -50 0 A Au ud dit it a and nd R Riis sk k Co Comm mmitt ittee ee rep repo ort rt an and d p pa ag ge e 85 85 pa page ge 83 83 ac acco coun unfit ting ing po policy licy a an nd d n note ote 21 21 of of t the he f fiina nanc ncia ial l used to the actual performance in the year ended June 2014 as Group audit team at the key reporting components in the following acc acco ount unting ing po polic licy an y and d not note 6 e 6 of t of the f he fiina nanc ncia ial st l state atem me en nts ts d diis sc cllo os sur ures.
stat statem emen ents ts d diis sc clos losu ure res.
s. well as the market based performance indices.
We performed countries: UK Ashmore Investment Management Limited and break-even analysis on the assumptions to assess the impact if Th The e r riis sk k ind indiivid vidu ua all in inve vest stme ment nt man mana age geme ment nt a ag gree reem me en nt ts s inc incllud ude e Ashmore Investment UK Limited and US Ashmore Equity T Th he e r riis sk k t th he e G Gr ro ou up p iin nv five es st ts s iin n f fu un nd ds s t th hat at a ar re e m ma an nag age ed d b by y a a G Gr ro ou up p the assumptions are proved to be incorrect.
We also assessed be besp spok oke e c com omp ple lex re x rebat bate e c ca allc cu ulat latiion ons s a and nd t th hes ese e c ca allc cu ula latio tions ns a ar re e Investment US, LLC.
These Group procedures covered 96% su subs bsidiar idiary y..
If If at at t the he t tiime me of a of ac cq qu uiisitio sition n, ma mana nag ge em ment ent ex expe pect ct t the he the potential risk of management bias.
s subj ubjec ect t to to pe peri riodi odic c al altera teratio tion ns s wh which ich in incr crea ease ses s th the e risk of risk of er error ror of total Group revenue: 94% of Group profit before taxation: co contr ntro ol l to to be be t te emp mporar orary, y, i. e. i. e. les less s tha than n 1 12 2 m mo on nt th hs s, the the inv inve est stme ment nts s in in th the e d det eterm erminat inatio ion n of of n net et r rev even enu ue.
e. T Th hiis s is is on one e of of t the he ke key y ar area eas s and 98% of total Group assets.
are are c clla ass ssiif fiied ed as as he held-forld-for-sa salle e H HF FS S a and nd co cons nso ollid idat ated ed as as HFS HFS as asse set ts s We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect t that hat ou our r a aud udiit t iis s c con once cent ntr rat ate ed d o on n b bec ecau ause se of of t the he ne need ed t to o k kee eep p a an nd d lia liabili bilitie ties s ra rathe ther r tha than n on on a a li line ne-bby y--li line ne ba basis sis..
This This is is one one o of f th the e of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key the the dat data a us used ed f for or the these se ca calcu lcullat atio ions ns up up t to o d dat ate e a an nd d to to en ensu sure re ke key y ju judg dgme menta ntall a ar rea eas s th that at our our au aud diit t is is co conc nce en ntra trate ted d o on n b be ec ca au us se e of the outcome of impairment assessment to changes in key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality that that th the e c ca alc lculat ulation ions s ar are e p pe erf rform ormed ed in in a ac cc co ord rdan ance ce wit with h t the he ther there e is is a a r riis sk k t tha hat t ma mana nage geme ment nt h has as in inco corre rrect ctly ly as asse sess ssed ed t the he p per eriio od d assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the key levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality re refile leva vant a nt agr gree eem ment ents.
s. of h of ho olld diing f ng for t or the he fun funds ds wh which t ich the he Gr Grou oup h p has as co contr ntrol ol ov over er be beca caus use e assumptions and the requirements of accounting standards.
levels were set individually for each component and ranged from of of th the e un uncert certa aiin nt ty y inv invo olv lve ed d in d in fide et te erm rminin ining g h ho ow w lo long ng it it w will ill t ta ak ke e to to Our Our r re es sp pons onse e iin n term terms s of of rebat rebate e r ra ates tes a ac cc cu ura racy cy we we eva evallua uated ted 0.4m to 6.5m.
Our findings we found the resulting estimates to be balanced a at tt tr ra ac ct t e ex xt te er rn na all iin nv five es st to or rs s.. T Th hiis s c co ou ulld d lle ea ad d t to o a an n iin nc co or rr re ec ct t co contr ntro ols ls a ar ro ou un nd d en ensur suriing th ng the e fe fee reb e reba at te e rat rate es s us use ed d ar are e a ac cc cu ura rate te and that note 15 sufficiently discloses the sensitivity.
c clla as ss siif fiic cat atiio on n o of f H HF FS S iin nv ves est tm me en nt ts s iin n t th he e b ba alla an nce ce s sh he ee et t a an nd d H HF FS S Opinion on other matters prescribed by the an and d u up p to to da date.
Ma Mana nage geme ment nt ha has s a a p pr ro oc ce ess ss wh whe er reb eby y th the e r re eb ba at te e g ga aiin ns s a an nd d l lo os ss se es s iin n t th he e s st ta at tem eme ent nt o of f c com ompr pre eh hen ens siiv five e i in nc com ome.
e. Companies Act 2006 rates a rates are re m ma aiin nta tained ined on on a a sepa separat rate e data databa base se that that is is rev reviiew ewed ed a and nd Share-based payments 23.2m In our opinion: sig sign ne ed d of off f b by y thr three ee t te ea am ms: s: leg lega al, l, distr distriibut bution ion a and nd f fiina nanc nce.
e. W We e Refer to pages 49-50 Audit and Risk Committee report, Ou Our r re resp spon onse ses s w we e c cr rit itic ically ally as asse sess ssed ed t th he e Di Dire rec ct to or rs s ra rati tion onale ale ev evalu alua ate ted d t the he co contro ntrols ls b by y w wa alk lking ing thro throu ugh gh t the he pr pro oc ce ess ss an and d fo for r a a page 85 accounting policy and note 10 of the financial for for c cllas ass siify fying ing se seed ed ca cap piita tal l inv inve est stme ments nts as as HF HFS.
S. We We co cons nside ider re ed d the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been se select lection ion of of m mo on nt ths, hs, w we e as asse sess sse ed d th the e o op pe erat ratiing ng e effec ffect tiv iven enes ess s of of statements disclosures.
the theiir r p plla an ns s t to o r re ed du uc ce e th the e Gr Grou oups ps ho holdin ldings gs in in th the e 1 12 2 mo mont nths hs properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the the co contr ntro ol.
l. W We e also ag also agre reed ed a a s se elect lection ion of of t the he r re eb ba ate te r ra at te es s on on t the he fo follow llowing ing ac acq qu uis isition ition t to o b be ello ow w th the e co cons nso ollid idat atio ion n th thr re es sh ho olld, d, a ag ga aiinst nst The risk the Group issues share awards to employees under a the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors d da ata taba base se to to the the o or riigin ginal al iinve nves st tmen ment t ma mana nage geme ment nt a ag gre reemen ements ts.. the the pat patt ter ern n o of f re redu duct ctio ion n o of f Gro Group ups s se see ed d c cap apiit ta al l in inve vestm stment ents s t to o th the e number of share-based compensation plans.
The number of shares report for the financial year for which the financial statements are ye year ar e end nd an and d a ag ga aiin nst st our our ow own n e exp xpect ectat atio ions ns ba bas sed ed on on our our In In Ja Jan nu uar ary y 2 20 01 14 4, a n a ne ew w s sy ys st te em m w was as in intro trodu duc ced ed t to o aut auto om ma ate te th the e that vest for executive Directors are subject to the relative total prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ex exper perien ienc ce e of of As Ashm hmore ores s p past ast pr pra ac ct tiic ce e.. W Wh he er re, e, a as s at at th the e y ye ea ar r e end, nd, ca calc lcu ulla at tio ion n for for a a ma majo jority rity of m of ma an na age geme ment nt f fee ee r re eb ba ates.
share return TSR condition over the vesting period.
This is one of a an n H HF FS S f fu un nd d h ha ad d a allr re ea ad dy y b bee een n h he elld d f fo or r a a s siig gn niif fiic ca ant nt p pe er riio od d w we e the key judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on because We have nothing to report in respect of the matters F Fo or r c ca allc cu ulla at tiio on ns s d du ur riin ng g t th he e p per eriio od d f fr ro om m J Ju ully y 2 201 013 3 t to o D fide ec ce em mb be er r ex exam amin ine ed d th the e c ch han ange ges s in in ho hold ldin ing g that that oc occu curre rred d in in t the he per period iod an and d of the judgments involved in determining the likelihood of the TSR on which we are required to report by exception 2 20 01 13 3, a as s w we ellll a as s f fo or r t th he e c ca allc cu ulla at tiio on ns s per perf for orm me ed d o ou ut ts siid fide e o of f t th he e n new ew the the Dir Direc ect tor ors s s sp pec ecif ific ic p plla ans ns to to f fur urt th her er re redu duce ce t th he e Gr Grou oups ps ho hold ldin ing g condition being met.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based s sy ys st tem em from from Ja Janu nua ar ry y 20 2014 14 to to Ju June ne 20 2014 14, iin n o or rde der r to to fide determi termin ne e th tha at t ag again ains st t th the e p pa art rtic icular ular r re eq qu uiir re em ment ents of s of ac acco coun untin ting g s st tan andar dard ds.
s. on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified the the r ra at te es s in in th the e d da ata taba base se wer were e u us sed ed in in th the e c ca allc cu ulat latiio on n, f fo or r a a Our responses we assessed the Directors basis for determining For For a alll l iinv nve estm stmen ent ts, s, we we te teste sted d As Ashm hmore ores s h ho olld diing ng in in ab abs solut olute e other information in the annual report that contains a material se select lection ion of of c ca allc cu ulat latiion ons, s, we we ag agre reed ed t the he rat rate es s us use ed d to to t th he e d da ata taba bas se e.. the impact of market based conditions at the start of the vesting a an nd d pe percen rcentag tage e te terms rms to to in inde depend penden ent t th third ird--p pa arty rty co con nf fiir rma matio tion ns s.. inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, period for both equity and cash-settled share-based schemes a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
and at the end of the period applicable only to the cash-settled scheme by reviewing reports prepared for Directors by a third party remuneration consultant.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 70 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only continued Year ended 30 June 2014 In particular, we are required to report to you if: Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities we have identified material inconsistencies between the set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a statement that they consider that the annual report and financial true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess at www.
This report is made solely the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or to the companys members as a body and is subject to important the section of the annual report describing the work of the Group explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, we have undertaken and the basis of our opinion.
in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Gareth Horner Senior Statutory Auditor from branches not visited by us: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants the parent company financial statements and the part of the 15 Canada Square Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement London with the accounting records and returns: or E14 5GL certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are 10 September 2014 not made: or www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 42 to 48 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
72 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014
