Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Opinion on financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements In our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state assurance that the financial statements are free from material of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate then ended.
to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and The Group financial statements have been properly prepared have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the The parent company financial statements have been properly Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Companies Act 2006. audited financial statements and to identify any information that is The financial statements have been prepared in accordance apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements IAS Regulation.
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
What we have audited Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of Bank of Georgia and our response to those risks Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 which We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on comprise: the overall audit strategy: on the allocation of resources in the audit: and on directing the efforts of the engagement team: the consolidated and stand-alone statements of financial position: Risk area and rationale: Monitoring of credit quality and the consolidated income statement and consolidated the appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses statement of comprehensive income: Refer to the significant accounting judgements and estimates in the consolidated and stand-alone statements of cash flow: Note 4 of the financial statements, the Audit Committee Report on the consolidated and stand-alone statements of changes pages 79 to 83 and the disclosures of credit risk within Note 30 in equity: and of the financial statements.
The impairment of loans to customers is estimated by the Directors The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their through the application of judgement and use of highly subjective preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting assumptions.
Due to the significance of loans to customers Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as representing 57% of total assets and the corresponding regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in uncertainty inherent in such an estimate, this is considered accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. a significant audit risk.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Audit response in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We documented and tested the Groups process and controls 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state for assessing and recording loans and determining the allowance.
to the Companys members those matters we are required to In particular, we tested loan exposures on a sample basis to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
ensure all loans which had suffered an incurred loss event had To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or been included in the specific provisioning process.
This is an assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and inherently judgemental process.
As a result, we examined the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Groups documented borrower assessments and tested selected report, or for the opinions we have formed.
controls, which addressed aspects such as the classification of borrowers into their respective risk grades, calculation of Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor days past due, and the recalculation of the loan loss allowance, As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement including the valuation of collateral.
In addition, we reviewed and set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the challenged assumptions around future cash flow projections preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied and the valuation of collateral held.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 103 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC continued The loan portfolio is also subject to a collective provisioning Our application of materiality approach.
The Group implemented a new provisioning We apply the concept of materiality in both planning and methodology this year, which introduced additional statistical performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements analysis for determining the probability of default and loss given on our audit and on the financial statements.
In response, we critically assessed the appropriateness of determining whether the financial statements are free from of this methodology as well as the assumptions and data inputs material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude of into the model, which included engaging internal experts to misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions support the audit team.
In assessing the model and assumptions, of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial we independently recalculated the model output and examined statements, would be changed or influenced.
the results of managements review of key assumptions.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a In addition we selected a sample of restructured loans, and magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would reviewed the Groups documented assessment to provide be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined assurance that any loans that have been subject to forbearance materiality for the Group to be GEL 13,830,000, which is have been appropriately classified and reported.
approximately 5% of profit before tax.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment Risk area and rationale: The integrity of the Groups procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material financial statements is dependent on the effectiveness misstatement and determining the nature, timings and of the internal control systems, of which the adequacy extent of further audit procedures.
of the IT security and change controls is a substantial component On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment Refer to the Audit Committee Report on pages 79 to 83. of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement Audit response in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of the IT of materiality, namely GEL 6,915,000.
Our objective in adopting this systems that are relevant to financial reporting.
We examined approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected controls over program development and changes, access to audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
programs and data and IT operations in respect of those IT systems, and embedded application controls.
We engaged IT Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a specialists in our audit team to perform sufficient audit procedures percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance to enable us to place reliance on the IT applications and relevant materiality set for each component is based on the relative size controls identified as having a material impact on the financial of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at reporting process.
Where exceptions were observed in our that component.
In the current year the range of performance testing, we identified compensating controls and tested those materiality allocated to the components was GEL 1,383,000 to address the identified risk.
Risk area and rationale: The reasonableness of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to fair value of investment properties and premises the Committee all audit differences in excess of GEL 691,000 Refer to the significant accounting judgements and estimates as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, in Note 4 of the financial statements and the disclosure of the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
significant unobservable inputs that affect the valuation of the properties in Note 31 to the financial statements.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in Real estate valuations are inherently uncertain and subject to the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Furthermore, the Groups properties are located primarily in Georgia, where the secondary market An overview of the scope of our audit is relatively illiquid.
Although the valuations are performed by Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement a combination of internal and external, appropriately qualified to the Group financial statements, our audit scope focused on two valuers, there remains a risk that individual assets might be components, which represent the principal business units within inappropriately valued.
the Group and account for 83% of the Groups total revenue and 90% of the Groups profit before tax.
One component was Audit response subject to a full scope audit 77% of revenue and 85% of profit We engaged internal valuations specialists to work with the before tax, while the other was subject to a specific scope audit audit team to evaluate the appropriateness of the Groups 6% of revenue and 5% of profit before tax where the extent of valuations.
Their assessment included evaluating the competence audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material and objectivity of the valuers, challenging the methods and misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business assumptions used and testing the data provided by the valuers.
These components were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
For the remaining components, we performed other procedures such as discussions with management and analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
104 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK but, since Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you management and operations reside in Georgia, the Group audit if, in our opinion: team operates as an integrated primary team including members from the UK, Georgia and Russia.
The senior statutory auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the visited Georgia five times during the current years audit and parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have there was regular interaction between team members in each not been received from branches not visited by us: or jurisdiction.
During his visits, the senior statutory auditor: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not attended meetings with senior management and the in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Audit Committee to discuss the key audit risk areas: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified attended meetings with local regulators: by law are not made: or reviewed the audit planning work in respect of the we have not received all the information and explanations two components that are in scope: and we require for our audit.
reviewed the test of controls and year-end substantive audit procedures in respect of the key audit risk areas.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Opinion on other matters prescribed by the the Directors statement, set out on page 102, in relation Companies Act 2006 to going concern: and In our opinion: the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act our review.
2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements A J McIntyre senior statutory auditor are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Matters on which we are required to report London by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 7 April 2015 Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to Notes: you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve materially inconsistent with the information in the audited consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were financial statements: or initially presented on the website.
apparently materially incorrect, based on, or materially 2.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 105
