The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Bankers Investment Our application of materiality Trust PLC for the year ended 31 October 2014 which comprise the We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing our Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in audit, in evaluating the effect of any identified misstatements and in Equity, Statement of Financial Position, Cash Flow Statement and forming our opinion.
For the purpose of determining whether the therelated notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been financial statements are free from material misstatement we define applied in their preparation is applicable law and International materiality as the magnitude of a misstatement or an omission from Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRSs' as adopted by the the financial statements or related disclosures that would make it EuropeanUnion.
probable that the judgement of a reasonable person, relying on the information, would have been changed or influenced by the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in misstatement or omission.
We also determine a level of performance accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for We established materiality for the financial statements as a whole to our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
be 6,682,000 which is 1% of the Companys net assets.
For the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income we determined that misstatements of a lesser amount than materiality Respective Responsibilities of Directors and for the financial statements as a whole would make it probable that the judgement of a reasonable person, relying on the information, Auditor would have been changed or influenced by a misstatement or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement omission.
Accordingly, we established materiality for the revenue set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible for the preparation column of the Income Statement to be 1,671,000. of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an We have determined the threshold at which we communicate opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law misstatements to the Audit Committee to be 334,100.
In addition, and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our assessment of risk Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following matters that A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements are, in our judgement, likely to be most important to users isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at understanding of our audit.
Our audit procedures relating to these www.
matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual transactions, account balances or disclosures.
Auditor Commentary An overview of the scope of our audit Investments Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the The Companys business is investing in a focused and internationally Companys business and is risk-based.
The day-to-day management diversified portfolio of securities to provide a rising level of dividends of the Companys investment portfolio, the custody of its investments as well as capital appreciation over the long-term.
Accordingly, the and the maintenance of the Companys accounting records is investment portfolio is a significant, material item inthe financial outsourced to third-party service providers.
We therefore identified the recognition, existence and work is focused on obtaining an understanding of, and evaluating, measurement of the investment portfolio as a risk thatrequires internal controls at the Company and relevant third-party service particular audit attention.
providers, and inspecting records and documents held by the Company and third-party service providers.
This included a review of Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: obtaining an reports on the description, design and operating effectiveness of understanding of managements processes to recognise and internal controls at relevant third-party service providers.
We measure investments, including ownership of those investments: undertook substantive testing on significant transactions, balances obtaining a confirmation of investments held at the year end directly and disclosures, the extent of which was based on various factors from the independent custodian: testing the reconciliation of the such as our overall assessment of the control environment, the custodian records to the records maintained by the Companys design effectiveness of controls over individual systems and the administrator: testing a selection of investment additions and management of specific risks.
disposals shown in the Companys records to supporting documentation: and agreeing the valuation of quoted investments toan independent source of market prices.
38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued The Companys accounting policy on the valuation of quoted Matters on which we are required to report by exception investments is included in note 1 and its disclosures about We have nothing to report in respect of the following: investments held at the year end are included in note 11.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Investment income Investment income is the Companys major source of revenue and is materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial a significant item in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
statements: or Accordingly, we identified the recognition of revenue from apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent investments as a risk that requires particular audit attention.
with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, assessing whether the Companys accounting policy for revenue recognition is in otherwise misleading.
accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice: 'Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified Trusts': obtaining an understanding of managements processes to any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the recognise revenue in accordance with the stated accounting policy: audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual testing whether a sample of revenue transactions has been report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual recognised in accordance with the policy: and for a sample of report appropriately discloses those matters that were communicated investments held in the period, confirming that income that should to the audit committee which we consider should have been have been received has been received and recorded, and assessing disclosed.
whether any of the dividends receivable should have been treated as capital receipts.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: The Companys accounting policy on the recognition of revenue from adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns investments is shown in note 1 and the components of that revenue adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not are included in note 3. visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Opinion on financial statements Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the In our opinion the financial statements: accounting records and returns: or give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are 31 October 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: not made: or have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as we have not received all the information and explanations we adopted by the European Union: and require for our audit.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: Companies Act 2006. the Directors statement, set out on page 28, in relation to going concern: and Other reporting responsibilities the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Julian Bartlett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Statutory Auditor and Chartered Accountants Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements London are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
