110 Beazley Annual report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Beazley plc Beazley for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the consolidated statement of profit or loss, the consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statements of financial position, the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991: and the directors remuneration report which we were engaged to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as if those requirements were to apply to the company.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional judgment, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Valuation of insurance liabilities $4,547.4m, gross, $3,494.2m net: 2013: $4,577.3m gross, $3,399.1m net Refer to pages 76 to 79 audit committee report, pages 120 to 130 accounting policy and pages 161 to 170 financial disclosures.
The risk Our procedures to address this risk 89% of the groups liabilities relate to evaluation and testing of key controls around the actuarial reserving process insurance liabilities.
The valuation of and the data used to determine the quantum of both gross and net insurance insurance liabilities remains the most liabilities.
This included considerations of matters raised in reserving and significant inherent risk in our audit.
underwriting committee meetings: Management apply judgement to determine use of our own actuarial specialists to support us in our evaluation of insurance reserves which include a prudential margin liabilities and in particular the estimate for insurance losses incurred but not above the actuarial best estimate to reported, and our conclusions over whether the amount calculated by the group account for estimation uncertainty.
lies within an acceptable range: The most critical estimate included in re-projection on a gross and net basis based on quarter 3 data then rolled insurance liabilities is the estimate for forward for quarter 4 using our own models for selected significant classes insurance losses incurred but not reported, of business, including marine, property and specialty.
We also considered for which the gross estimate is $2,540.2m the consistency of the basis for the margin applied to the actuarial estimate 31 December 2013: $2,597.5m and the year-on-year: net estimate is $1,874.5m 31 December discussion and consideration of the reserving assumptions and methodology 2013: $1,872.8m as at 31 December applied for prudence and consistency, and benchmarking to identify any outliers 2014.
The level of subjectivity in the against our experience of similar accounts in the market place.
Any outliers were estimated impact of uncertain or unknown then followed up through discussions with the group: and future events: the diversity of risks written consideration of the quality of historic reserving exercises by tracking the by Beazley, and therefore the granular outcome of prior years liabilities provisions by reference to subsequent out-turn level of reserving that occurs at class of with the benefit of hindsight.
business level: the nature of the specialist classes of business that Beazley underwrites: and particular uncertainty as regards the exposure to extreme losses in the catastrophe book and reserving for new products all serve to increase the level of judgement required and subjectivity inherent in the estimation of insurance liabilities.
com 110 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 111 Existence and valuation of investments financial assets at fair value $4,077.4m: 2013: $4,043.6m Refer to page 76 audit committee report, pages 120 to 130 accounting policy and pages 152 to 157 financial disclosures.
The risk Our procedures to address this risk The group holds and manages assessment of the groups controls for monitoring performance of investments a significant investment portfolio to meet its and the data integrity of the investment records, with a particular focus on the obligations under insurance contracts and new processes established as part of the investment management procedures for shareholder investment purposes.
The brought in-house: size of the portfolio: the exposure to hedge assessment of the identification and subsequent resolution of differences funds: and the strategy employed to in custodian reconciliations: increase the allocation of assets with a receipt of external confirmations from custodians of the investment portfolio higher credit risk to improve investment and agreement to company records: return all contribute to making the existence performance and evaluation of independent pricing and credit rating checks: and valuation of investments a key areas of assessment of valuation methodology for the new portfolio of illiquid credit assets: focus within our audit.
The use and oversight inspection of the hedge fund managers valuation reports and consideration of outsourced service providers remains of the historical accuracy of these pricing estimates by reference to realized an element of the groups approach to amounts.
We discussed any potential valuation issues with management: and investment management.
Further, during assessment of the allocation of assets into the fair value hierarchy as disclosed 2014, Beazley have brought certain in note 16, placing specific emphasis on the classification of hedge funds and investment management procedures higher credit risk assets where a greater degree of judgment is required.
in-house, and have increased its allocation to a portfolio of illiquid credit assets which include investments which are more complex to value.
Valuation of other assets reinsurance assets $1,053.2m, 2013: $1,178.2m, insurance receivables $587.0m, 2013: $617.7m, intangible assets $94.6m, 2013: $91.6m and premium estimates Refer to page 76 audit committee report, pages 120 to 130 accounting policy and pages 148 to 177 financial disclosures.
The risk Our procedures to address this risk The risks in these areas include the Reinsurance assets and insurance receivables valuation of reinsurance assets and evaluation and testing of key controls over the processes designed to record and insurance receivables, being the monitor insurance and reinsurance debtors: recoverability of insurance and reinsurance inspection of managements aged analysis for recoveries as at 31 December 2014: debtors notes 18, 19 and 24, the valuation understanding the terms of the reinsurance programmes in place and conducting of intangible assets note 12 and the relevant substantive procedures and analytical reviews to assess the appropriateness of premium estimates.
reasonableness of the reinsurance assets relative to gross provisions: All of these balances require judgement considering credit ratings for reinsurers: to be applied by the group to the valuation benchmarking with other market participants where possible e. g. to consider and, in terms of processing, require manual the bad debt provision percentages applied to counterparties and against past adjustments to be made, which we consider experience: and on a substantive basis.
testing of the manual adjustments on a sample basis by tracing back to supporting documentation.
Intangible assets assessment and challenge of cash flow models employed by the group in the context of our wider understanding of the business and its strategy: and assessment and challenge of the discount rates, assumed growth factors and terminal growth rates applied in the calculation of all impairment calculations.
Premium estimates evaluation of controls around premium estimates across all lines of business: assessment of the internal peer review process in place at Beazley to challenge the premium estimates established and the timeliness of updates: involvement of our actuarial specialists in assessing these amounts where the nature or calculation of the amounts is complex and or judgmental: critical assessment of the estimates involved in recording business written by binders to ensure the methodology remained appropriate in the context of the timing of business written throughout the year: and testing of the manual adjustments on a sample basis by tracing back to supporting documentation.
com 112 Beazley Annual report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc continued For all of the risk areas set out above, we have assessed whether the groups disclosures about the sensitivities of the relevant financial statement items to changes in the respective key assumptions appropriately reflect the associated risks and comply with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at $20m 31 December 2013: $20m.
This has been calculated with reference to a benchmark of group gross premiums written of which it represents 1% which we have determined, in our professional judgment, to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
In addition, we applied materiality of $10m 31 December 2013: $10m for balances other than the insurance and reinsurance technical balances, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be reasonably expected to influence the companys members assessment of the financial performance of the group.
We report to the audit and risk committee all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with an individual value in excess of $1m $0.5m for non-technical 31 December 2013: $1m $0.5m for non-technical in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audit work to support this opinion is directed by the engagement partner, who signs this report on behalf of the firm, and in the light of the extent of the groups activities in London, is undertaken primarily by an audit team in London.
Of the groups two reporting components, we subjected Beazley Furlonge Limited and the syndicates to an audit for group reporting purposes and Beazley Insurance Company Incorporated to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed and reported to the component auditor.
The group audit team instructed the London based auditor as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team also approved the component materiality.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we need to have in the audit work in order to conclude whether sufficient audit evidence has been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
This involvement included the group team visiting the London based auditor in order to assess the audit risk and strategy and work undertaken.
Telephone conferences and on site meetings were also held with the component auditor.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
The audit work performed by the group and component auditors covered 100% of group revenue, 99.4% of profit before tax and 98.5% of group total assets.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed under the terms of our engagement is unmodified In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the directors have engaged us to audit the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited, which they have decided to prepare as if the company were required to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 No.
410 made under the UK Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the directors remuneration report which we were engaged to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as if those requirements were to apply to the company.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland require that we report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the statement of corporate governance does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit and risk committee.
com 112 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 113 Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
The Listing Rules require us to review: the directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement on page 73 relating to the parent companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Responsibilities of our report, responsibilities and restriction on use As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 109, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors.
An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Whilst an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland is designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant audit work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting.
Our report is made solely to the parent companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent company and the Parent companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Hubert Crehan for and on behalf of KPMG Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors 1 Harbourmaster Place International Financial Services Centre Dublin 1 Ireland 4 February 2015 www.
com 114 Beazley Annual report 2014 Financial statements 115 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 116 S tatement of comprehensive income 117 S tatement of changes in equity 118 S tatements of financial position 119 Statements of cash flows 120 Notes to the financial statements 178 Glossary w ww ww w.. b bea eaz zlle ey y.. c co om m
