BREVAN HOWARD MASTER FUND LIMITED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 1 Independent Auditors Report to the Directors and Shareholders on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient statements of Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited the Master and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Fund, which comprise the consolidated statement of assets Opinion and liabilities, including the consolidated condensed schedule In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred of investments as of 31 December 2014, and the related to above present fairly in all material respects, the consolidated consolidated statements of operations, changes in net assets, financial position of the Master Fund as of 31 December 2014, and cash flows for the year then ended, and the related notes to and the results of its consolidated operations, the changes in the financial statements.
its consolidated net assets and its consolidated cash flows for This report is made solely to the Directors and Shareholders, as a the year then ended in accordance with U. S. generally accepted body, in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Directors and Shareholders those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors KPMG and Shareholders, for our audit work, for this report, or for the George Town opinions we have formed.
Grand Cayman Managements Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial 19 March 2015 Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles: this includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
