Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a In our opinion: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so X the financial statements give a true and fair view of the that we might state to the Companys members those matters state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for 31December 2014 and of the Groups return for the year no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do then ended: not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit X the Group financial statements have been properly work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR X the Companys financial statements have been properly As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors prepared in accordance with International Financial Responsibilities set out on page 36, the Directors are Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our Companies Act 2006: and responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and X the financial statements have been prepared in International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE STATEMENTS COMPANIES ACT 2006 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our opinion: disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free X the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the This includes an assessment of whether the accounting Companies Act 2006: and policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and X the information given in the Strategic Report and the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant Directors Report for the financial year for which the accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall financial statements are prepared is consistent with the presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read financial statements.
all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED financial statements and to identify any information that is We have audited the financial statements of BlackRock World apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Mining Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Income, the Group and Company Statements of Changes in material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Equity, the Group and Company Statements of Financial implications for our report.
Position, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [39] Financial statements Independent auditors report continued OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We determined planning materiality for the Company to be MISSTATEMENT AND OUR RESPONSE 6.2 million 2013: 8.9 million, which is 1% of total equity.
We identi ed the following risks of material misstatement that This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the engagement team.
The table also includes our responses the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We to the risks: have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of total equity as we consider it to be the most important Risk Identi ed Our Response financial metric on which shareholders would judge the The investment portfolio at X We assessed the controls in place performance of the Company.
the year end comprised of at the accounting administrator, quoted equity investments BNY Mellon, to con rm there were On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our of 671 million and no signi cant exceptions in security assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our manually priced pricing or position reconciliations.
judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our X We agreed all the year end prices of The valuation of the assets tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or the quoted investments to an held in the investment independent source using our balance for the Company should be 75% of planning portfolio is the key driver proprietary pricing tool operated by materiality, namely 4.6 million 2013: 6.6 million.
Our of the Companys our team of pricing specialists.
objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total investment return.
X We have reviewed the inputs and Incorrect asset pricing, or undetected and uncorrected audit differences in all accounts assumptions used to value a failure to maintain did not exceed our planning materiality level.
manually priced investments and proper legal title of the agreed them to supporting assets held by the Given the importance of the distinction between revenue documentation which included, Company, could have a andcapital for the Company we have also applied a where possible, comparable market signi cant impact on the separateperformance materiality of 2.1 million data.
We also considered the portfolio valuation and, valuation methodologies applied to 2013:2.2million forthe revenue column of the Statement therefore, the return these investments to con rm they generated for ofComprehensive Income, being 5% of the return on ordinary were consistent with fair valuation shareholders.
X We agreed the number of shares We have reported to the Audit Committee all audit differences held for each security to in excess of 312,000 2013: 443,000, as well as differences con rmations of legal title received below thatthreshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on from the Companys custodian qualitative grounds.
Bank of New York Mellon International Limited and third party evidence.
We agreed the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the options held at the year end to an qualitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the independent con rmation from the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
broker, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The investment income X We agreed a sample of income Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement receivable by the Group receipts from quoted securities to to the Group financial statements our scope consists of the during the year directly supporting market data and bank Parent Company and its subsidiary which are subject to a full drives the Companys statements and con rmed that ability to make dividend income was recorded in accordance scope audit by the group audit team.
with the Companys accounting If the Company is not policy for revenue recognition on a MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO entitled to receive the basis consistent with International income recognised in the Financial Reporting Standards and REPORT BY EXCEPTION financial statements, or AIC SORP.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the income recognised X We agreed a sample of option does not relate to the premium income receipts to Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to current financial year, this contracts and bank statements and you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: will impact the extent of further obtained such supporting the pro ts available to documentation in relation to a X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited fund dividend distributions sample of cut-off items to con rm to shareholders.
financial statements: or that they were recorded in the correct accounting period.
X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or X otherwise misleading.
[40] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report isfair, balanced and understandable and whether the AnnualReport appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or X certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: X the Directors statement set out on page 23 in relation to going concern: and X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review.
Matthew Price Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 19 March 2015 1.
The Directors have delegated responsibility to the Manager for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys corporate and financial information included on the Managers website: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [41]
