Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Primary Accounting Policies, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Changes in Net Assets Attributable to Shareholders, the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 37, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied 46 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Independent Auditors Report and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that we believed would have the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources and directing the efforts of the engagement team: existence and ownership of the Companys investments, because failure to obtain good title exposes the Company to significant risk of loss: and valuation of the Companys investments, because valuations can require significant judgement and estimation.
Our application of materiality We determined planning materiality for the Company to be 8.2m 2013: 8.4m, which is approximately 1% of equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We used equity as a basis for determining planning materiality because the Companys primary performance measures for internal and external reporting are based on net asset value.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Company should be 75% of materiality, namely 6.2m 2013: 6.3m.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in the financial statements did not exceed our materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of 0.41m 2013: 0.42m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
47 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Independent Auditors Report We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit We adopted a risk-based approach in determining our audit strategy.
This approach focuses audit effort towards higher risk areas, such as management judgments and estimates.
We performed audit procedures and responded to the risks identified as described below.
We addressed the risk that the Company does not hold good title to its investments as follows: we obtained confirmation of shareholdings from both the administrator of the investee funds and the Companys administrator for shares held by them in a nominee capacity on behalf of the Company and agreed this to the records of the Company.
We also obtained and considered the ISAE 3402 report on the administrator of the companys significant investee funds to ascertain whether the relevant controls could be relied upon in our audit strategy.
We addressed the risk of incorrect valuation of the Companys investments as follows: we agreed the valuation of the Companys investments to the net asset values published by the administrator of the investee funds.
we formed an independent view as to whether the fair value of the Companys investments is equivalent to the net asset value of the investee funds and challenged managements assumptions in reaching this conclusion.
This included obtaining evidence to support the ability of the Company to redeem its holdings in the investee funds at the year end.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report 48 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Independent Auditors Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Christopher James Matthews, FCA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands 13 April 2015 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the sole responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
