Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Opinion on Financial Statements of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 28 September 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 21 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements isappropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment review of intangible assets client relationships and goodwill The Group has made a number of acquisitions in previous In assessing the intangible assets, we have reviewed the periods, resulting in the recognition of 87.0 million of calculations prepared by management to assess whether they capitalised client relationships and goodwill.
meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and that the assumptions and judgements made are appropriate.
The impairment of these intangible assets represents a key area of judgement because the Group assess whether the In doing this we have challenged the percentages ongoing benefits offered by the capitalised client relationship management have applied to market values of Funds under intangibles and goodwill are greater than the carrying value or Management to determine fair value, and validated these whether there is an indication of impairment.
This assessment against percentages derived from recent public acquisitions of is driven by estimates of future income flows from Funds fund management businesses.
We have also performed procedures to test the controls over the production of Funds under Management data used as the basis for the estimates of future revenue flow.
The sensitivity of the valuation of Funds under Management is included in note 15, for which we have performed recalculation.
72 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Software impairment and related contractual obligations The Groups opening position of capitalised software In considering the adequacy of the impairment assessment amounted to 34.2 million.
As explained in note 15, during performed by the Group we have challenged the impairment the period management have determined that a significant review process and the assumptions and inputs to it to impairment was required.
assess whether it is undertaken in accordance with the requirements of IAS36.
This included the use of a fair value The Group estimates the quantum of the impairment and the specialist in determining the weighted cost of capital for an remaining value in use of the software taking into account any investment management business.
Our work in respect of this provision included obtaining The Group has estimated a license provision for future licence confirmation from the Groups legal advisor and examining the payments in respect of this software.
contractual arrangements for the licence payments.
Assumptions underlying the calculation of the pension scheme deficit The Group has recognised a defined benefit pension deficit of In order to evaluate the appropriateness of the assumptions 7.7 million.
The valuation of the deficit, being the net of the used by management we have used our own actuarial assets and liabilities, is significant as this balance impacts the experts to make direct enquiries of the Groups actuary and companys distributable reserves and is estimated based on review the key actuarial assumptions adopted for the IAS management judgement.
19 Employee Benefits calculations for compliance with the requirements of the accounting standard, in particular, Uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect considering the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality of long-term trends and market conditions to determine assumptions against other available information and the value based on the Groups expectations of the future.
As a result, the final deficit realised by the Group may be significantly different to that recognised on the balance sheet We have also assessed the recoverability of the related since small changes to the assumptions used materially affect deferred tax asset.
We have circularised the custodian of the pension scheme assets and independently recalculated the value of the schemes portfolio of assets.
Estimations used in the calculation of shares to be issued Shares to be issued represent the Groups best estimate of We have reviewed the calculations supporting the the amount of Ordinary Shares in Brewin Dolphin Holdings estimates of amounts of shares to be issued to assess PLC that are likely to be issued under deferred or contingent whether underlying assumptions and judgements made payment mechanisms in respect of acquisitions of businesses are appropriate.
We have challenged management on the key assumptions Estimates of amounts of shares to be issued and deferred incorporated in shares to be issued workings, including purchase consideration are inevitably judgemental, due to the estimates of future earnings from acquisitions, discount rates estimates of future income related to the purchased asset.
used and adjustments to prior years acquisitions, through comparison to publicly available information and historic revenues analysis.
Estimations for provisions for sundry claims and associated costs and onerous lease contracts Due to the nature of the Groups business, it maintains We have discussed outstanding legal cases and claims a provision for sundry claims arising from customer received with management, reviewed the associated complaints, other legal matters and onerous lease legal correspondence and assessed whether the levels of provisions.
The amounts recognised as provisions should provisions and associated insurance debtors are appropriate be the Groups best estimates of the expenditure required and that the debtor balances are likely to be recoverable.
to settle these obligations and therefore is subject to We also received confirmations from the Groups legal management judgement.
Recoveries from insurers related to such obligations should be We discussed with management the estimation methodology recognised when it is virtually certain that the reimbursement used and key assumptions to determine the onerous lease will be received and should be treated as separate assets.
provisions and independently confirmed these amounts to source documentation to assess whether they are In regards to the onerous lease provision, assessments are appropriately calculated.
made of the obligations in respect of vacant space, taking account in certain cases, of any potential income from subletting such space.
Due to the number of leases held, the quantum of the lease charge, and the manual nature of the calculations there is a risk that errors could occur.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc continued Last year the valuation of Euroclear was identified as a significant risk.
Due to the greater availability of information concerning the Available For Sale Investment, we no longer consider this to be a significant risk.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 48.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.. Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 2.8 million 2013: 2.86 million, which is 7% 2013: 10% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
Pre-taxprofit has been adjusted by taking into account the exceptional impairment charge, of 31.7 million which is a significant and non-recurring expense.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 54,000 2013: 57,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The majority of the operations of the Group are based in the United Kingdom and are audited by Deloitte LLP.
The only exception to this is Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, an Irish Company, which represents less than 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit and which is audited by a Deloitte affiliate.
We have supervised their work on the figures included in the Groups Financial Statements for this entity through the issuance of instructions, receipt of summaries of work performed and ongoing dialogue and visit throughout the audit process.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits to branches, which primarily operate as local sales offices, that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits the locations on a rotational basis.
In total our work included visits to five branches.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
74 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Ifwebecome aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Oliver Grundy FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 2 December 2014 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75
