116 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRIT PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Opinion on Financial Statements the preparation of the parent Company Financial Statements In our opinion: is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards The Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31December2014 and of the Groups profit for the year This report is made solely to the Companys members, then ended: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so The Group Financial Statements have been properly that we might state to the Companys members those matters prepared in accordance with International Financial we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Union: we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other The parent Company Financial Statements have been than the Company and the Companys members as a body, properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and formed.
The Financial Statements have been prepared in Our assessment of the risks of material accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act misstatement and responses to those risks 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, We identified the following risks that have had the greatest Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement What we have audited team together with our audit responses to those risks: We have audited the Group and parent Company Financial Statements of Brit PLC for the year ended 31December2014 Valuation of insurance liabilities which comprise: Valuation of investments the consolidated income statement: Revenue recognition the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated statement of financial position: the consolidated statement of cash flows: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: the related notes 1 to 43 to the Consolidated Financial Statements: the parent Company statement of financial position: the parent Company statement of cash flows for the period from 19December2013 to 31December2014 : the parent Company statement of changes in equity for the period from 19December2013 to 31December2014 : and the related notes 1 to 14 to the parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 117 Valuation of insurance liabilities Refer to page 82 Audit Committee report, page 134 accounting policy, page 141 critical accounting estimates and page 178 disclosures Risk Response The valuation of the insurance liabilities, or claims reserves, We understood, assessed and tested the design and held by the Group is an area of risk due to the level of operational effectiveness of key controls over the Brit PLC subjectivity in estimating the ultimate cost of the settlement reserving process, which included controls over the extraction of claims that have occurred but for which the eventual of data from the underlying systems and the review and outcome remains uncertain.
In particular, judgement is required when estimating the value We used our own actuarial specialists to support us in our of amounts that should be provided for claims that have been evaluation of managements methodology against market incurred at the reporting date but have not yet been reported practice, and challenged managements assumptions and to the Group.
their assessment of major sensitivities based on our market knowledge and industry data where available.
In determining the claims reserves, management include an additional margin above the actuarial best estimate to take Using management data we re-projected the claims reserves account of estimation uncertainty.
on both a gross and net basis and investigated further where there were significant differences between our projections The key risk is the use of inappropriate assumptions resulting and managements reported claims reserves.
in reported claims reserves not falling within a reasonable range of possible estimates, meaning insurance liabilities Using our re-projections we then evaluated whether the could be materially misstated.
reported claims reserves at the year-end fall within an acceptable range, and also compared for consistency These judgements and uncertainties are significant to the with the position in the range in prior years.
This included earnings of the Group.
consideration of the consistency of the basis for the margin applied to the actuarial best estimate.
In light of our work outlined above we also considered the adequacy of disclosures of the judgements and uncertainties being made by the directors in the insurance risk note starting on page 143, and Note 21 related to insurance and reinsurance contracts.
118 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRIT PLC Valuation of investments Refer to page 82 Audit Committee report, page 135 accounting policy, page 142 critical accounting estimates and page 186 disclosures Risk Response The Groups financial investments represent 59% of total We understood, assessed and tested the design and assets.
operating effectiveness of the key controls over the investment valuation process, including managements The investment strategy adopted by management includes process for estimating the fair value of investments held holdings in instruments such as structured products, loan and controls over information provided by the investment portfolios and investment funds.
These investments are not always valued using quoted We used our valuation experts to support the audit team in prices based on observable market information.
As a result challenging the valuation methodologies and assumptions significant judgement is inherent in the methodologies being used by management to price these investments.
and assumptions used by management in determining the Where model inputs and assumptions were not observable fair value of these investments and preparing the required in the market, our valuation experts have critically assessed disclosures in the notes to the Financial Statements.
whether these management valuations fell within an acceptable range based on relevant knowledge and experience of the market.
We also considered the investments disclosures for compliance with IFRS, with particular focus on the fair value hierarchy and related disclosures for Level 2 and 3 investments.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 119 Revenue Recognition Refer to page 82 Audit Committee report, page 133 accounting policy, page 142 critical accounting estimates and page 178 disclosures Risk Response For certain contracts written, premium is initially recognised We evaluated and tested the key controls over the premium based on estimates of ultimate premiums.
Estimation occurs process, which included the data reconciliations over the flow for contracts where pricing is based on variables which are of premium balances from initiation on underlying systems not known with certainty at the point of binding the contract through to the general ledger.
or where contracts have been entered into but not processed We used actuarial specialists to support the audit team on the system by 31December2014.
in performing a consistency check of premium income These estimates are judgemental and therefore could result estimates to identify over or under estimation, which was in misstatements of revenue recognised in the Financial supplemented by detailed tests of certain transactions and Statements.
There is also a risk that earnings patterns applied to written We have recalculated a sample of earning patterns and premiums are inappropriate or inaccurate and that insufficient considered by class of business whether earning patterns risk transfer is present within policies to categorise as are consistent with the prior year, our expectations and our insurance contracts.
We have also completed analytical review procedures on premium balances.
We reviewed a sample of policies to ensure appropriate transfer of risk has taken place and premium has been recognised in accordance with the Companys policy and applicable accounting framework.
The Audit Committees consideration of these judgements is set out on page 82.
Our application of materiality namely 2.7m.
Our objective in adopting this approach We apply the concept of materiality both in planning was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality identified misstatements on our audit and of uncorrected level.
misstatements, if any, on the Financial Statements and in forming our opinion in the Audit Report.
When establishing At year end we have revised our materiality based on 5% our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of of actual profit on ordinary activities before tax of 149.1m uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material 2013:PBT of 107.4m to 7.5m 2013 final: 5.3m.
As a for the Financial Statements as a whole.
result we have also revised our performance materiality to 3.8m 2013 final: 2.7m.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 5.3m, which was based on 5% of prior year profit on ordinary We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report activities before tax taking into account current year forecasts.
to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3m, This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, 120 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRIT PLC In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial An overview of the scope of our audit information in the Annual Report to identify material Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to to the Group Financial Statements, we performed the audit in identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect order to obtain assurance that the Financial Statements give based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge a true and fair view and cover the risks identified above.
The acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we work performed enabled us to provide an audit opinion on become aware of any apparent material misstatements or the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Whilst the Group has operations in locations other than Opinion on other matters prescribed by the the United Kingdom, we have performed an assessment of Companies Act 2006 these other Group locations and do not consider them to be In our opinion: significant enough to warrant an audit by a local audit team for group reporting purposes.
In completing our procedures, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be we have therefore audited all material overseas balances.
The audited has been properly prepared in accordance with audit work performed by the team covered 100% of each of the Companies Act 2006: and the Groups insurance liabilities, investments and revenue.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Financial Statements.
Statement set out on page 111 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being Matters on which we are required to report by satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility exception is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements We have nothing to report in respect of the following: in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: for Auditors.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements Financial Statements: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the course of performing our audit: or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting is otherwise misleading.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied In particular, we are required to consider whether we have and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall acquired during the audit and the directors statement presentation of the Financial Statements.
that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 121 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 112, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Michael Purrington Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 24 February 2015 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Brit PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
122 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION TO THE PRIMARY STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement The consolidated income statement shows income earned and expenses incurred by all the companies of Brit.
Other items are shown in the statement of comprehensive income.
The numbers in brackets are costs or losses incurred.
The earnings per share is the profit for the year divided by the number of shares.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income As well as the profit or loss reported in the consolidated income statement, there are a number of other items not reported in the consolidated income statement which are instead shown here.
These are gains and losses in the Groups pension scheme and any tax associated with these gains or losses.
The statement starts from profit or loss reported in the income statement and adjusts for any gains and losses arising as a result of the pension scheme to show the overall result.
Consolidated statement of financial position The consolidated statement of financial position is a summary of assets and how the assets have been funded through liabilities and equity investment by shareholders.
Consolidated statement of cash flows The consolidated statement of cash flows shows how we generate cash through our operating activities, how we have spent cash investing activities and how we have borrowed or spent cash to fund our business for all the companies in the Group.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity The consolidated statement of changes in equity shows how the various lines in the equity section of the Groups statement of financial position have moved during the year.
The main changes are due to corporate reorganisation and listing of the Group on the London Stock Exchange along with profit for the year shown in the Total comprehensive income recognised line.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 123 CONTENTS INDEX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 124 NOTE 17 INT ANGIBLE ASSETS 174 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT NOTE 18 PROPER TY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 176 OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 126 NOTE 19 DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS 177 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT NOTE 20 DEFERRED T AXATION 177 OF FINANCIAL POSITION 127 NOTE 21 INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT CONTRACTS 178 OF CASH FLOWS 128 NOTE 22 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 182 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT NOTE 23 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS 186 OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 129 NOTE 24 DERIV ATIVE CONTRACTS 190 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 131 NOTE 25 INSURANCE AND OTHER RECEIV ABLES 192 NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMA TION 131 NOTE 26 CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS 192 NOTE 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PREPARATION 131 NOTE 27 BORROWINGS 193 NOTE 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMA TES NOTE 28 PROVISIONS 194 AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING NOTE 29 INSURANCE AND OTHER P AYABLES 194 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 141 NOTE 30 SHARE CAPIT AL 195 NOTE 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES 143 NOTE 31 DIVIDENDS 195 NOTE 5 SEGMENT AL INFORMATION 162 NOTE 32 OWN SHARES 196 NOTE 6 INVESTMENT RETURN 166 NOTE 33 RESERVES 196 NOTE 7 RETURN ON DERIV ATIVE CONTRACTS 166 NOTE 34 COMMITMENTS 196 NOTE 8 NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE NOTE 35 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED GAINS LOSSES 167 BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 197 NOTE 9 ACQUISITION COSTS AND OTHER NOTE 36 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS 197 OPERATING EXPENSES 168 NOTE 37 SHARE-BASED P AYMENTS 198 NOTE 10 ST AFF COSTS 168 NOTE 38 ACQUISITIONS 200 NOTE 11 EARNINGS AND NET ASSETS PER SHARE 169 NOTE 39 INTERESTS IN STRUCTURED ENTITIES 201 NOTE 12 FINANCE COSTS 170 NOTE 40 CONSOLIDA TED ENTITIES 202 NOTE 13 AUDITORS REMUNERA TION 170 NOTE 41 RELA TED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 202 NOTE 14 PROFIT ON DISPOSAL OF ASSET HELD FOR SALE 171 NOTE 42 GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 204 NOTE 15 T AX EXPENSE 172 NOTE 43 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 205 NOTE 16 LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 173
