94 Report of the independent auditors Parent company financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC THE COMPANY Report on the parent company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Our opinion Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations In our opinion the parent company financial statements, dened received below: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2014: we have not received all the information and explanations we have been properly prepared in accordance with United require for our audit: or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Companies Act 2006. not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What we have audited The parent company financial statements the financial Directors remuneration statements, which are prepared by British Telecommunications plc, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, comprise: in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report the parent company balance sheet as at 31 March 2014: arising from this responsibility.
the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit explanatory information.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their responsibilities set out on page 41, the directors are responsible for preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting that they give a true and fair view.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing have made assumptions and considered future events.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only What an audit of financial statements involves for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the financial statements are free from material misstatement, agreed by our prior consent in writing.
whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Other matter companys circumstances and have been consistently applied We have reported separately on the group financial statements of and adequately disclosed: British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2014. the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor in the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2014 the Annual Report to for and on behalf of  LLP identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements and to identify any information that is apparently London materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 15 May 2014 knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
