42 Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC CONSOLIDATED UNITED KINGDOM OPINION Report on the group financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Our opinion in the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2014 to identify material In our opinion the financial statements, dened below: inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 31 March 2014 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any ended: apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the have been properly prepared in accordance with International implications for our report.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB Other matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, in Adequacy of information and explanations received addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Standards Board IASB.
explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, What we have audited in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration The group financial statements the financial statements, which specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report are prepared by British Telecommunications plc, comprise: arising from this responsibility.
the group balance sheet as at 31 March 2014: the group income statement and group statement of Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit comprehensive income for the year then ended: Our responsibilities and those of the directors the group cash ow statement for the year then ended: As explained more fully in the Statement of directors the group statement of changes in equity for the year then responsibilities set out on page 41, the directors are responsible for ended: and the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary that they give a true and fair view.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial information.
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
In making such estimates, they do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for have made assumptions and considered future events.
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly What an audit of financial statements involves agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit Other matter involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in We have reported separately on the parent company financial the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 31 March 2014. whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: for and on behalf of  LLPthe reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the directors: and Londonthe overall presentation of the financial statements.
