58 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Independent auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc assumptions, such as discount factors, and the choice of Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit benchmark for earnings multiples.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified underlying financial data inputs to external sources and We have audited the financial statements of Caledonia investee company audited accounts and management Investments plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out on information as applicable.
We challenged the assumptions pages 60 to 81.
In our opinion: around sustainability of earnings based on the plans of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of investee companies and whether these are achievable, and the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March we obtained an understanding of existing and prospective 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: investee company cash flows to understand whether borrowings can be serviced or refinancing may be required.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in Where a recent transaction is used to value any holding, we accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards obtained an understanding of the circumstances surrounding as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the transactions and whether it was considered to be on an the EU : arms-length basis and suitable as an input into a valuation.
the parent company financial statements have been properly Our work included consideration of events which occurred prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and subsequent to the year end up until the date of this audit report.
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies We compared the investment property valuations of the Act 2006: and directors to valuations performed by the external valuer and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as valuer.
With the assistance of our own valuation specialist, regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the we considered the appropriateness of the external and IAS Regulation.
internal valuations and inherent assumptions by comparing the groups assumptions to externally derived data.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial For the valuation of fund interests we reviewed the latest statements the risks of material misstatement that had the reported net asset values from the fund managers.
Our greatest effect on our audit were as follows: procedures also included obtaining the audited financial statements of the funds and considering the historical Valuation of unlisted investments 748.7m accuracy of the net asset values.
Refer to page 36 Audit Committee Report, page 66 accounting policy and pages 69 to 70 financial disclosures Our procedures also included consideration of the appropriateness, in accordance with relevant accounting The risk standards, of the disclosures in Note 23 in respect of unlisted 49.3% of the companys total assets by value is held in investments and the effect of changing one or more inputs to investments where no quoted market price is available.
The reasonably possible alternative valuation assumptions.
unquoted investments are measured at fair value, which is established in accordance with International Private Equity Carrying value of quoted equity investments 703.2m and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines by using measurements Refer to page 36 Audit Committee Report, page 66 of value such as price of recent orderly transactions, earnings accounting policy and pages 69 to 70 financial disclosures multiples and net assets.
There is a significant risk over the The risk valuation of these investments and this is one of the key The groups portfolio of listed investments makes up 46.3% of judgmental areas that our audit focused on.
the total assets of the group and is considered to be a key driver Our response of operations and performance results.
We do not consider Our procedures included, among others: these investments to be at high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level of judgment because they enquiry with management to document and assess the design comprise liquid, quoted investments.
However, due to their and implementation of the investment valuation processes materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, and controls in place.
We attended the biannual Challenge they are considered to be one of the areas which had the greatest Committee meetings and quarterly Audit Committee meetings where we assessed the effectiveness of the Committees effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources challenge and approval of unlisted investment valuations.
in planning and completing our audit.
assessment of investment realisations in the period, Our response comparing actual sales proceeds to prior year end valuations Our procedures over the existence and valuation of the groups to understand the reasons for significant variances and quoted equity investment portfolio included, but were not consideration of whether they are indicative of bias or error limited to: in the companys approach to valuations.
documenting and assessing the processes in place to record challenging the investment manager on key judgements investment transactions and to value the portfolio: affecting investee company valuations in the context of agreeing the valuation of investments to externally quoted observed industry best practice and the provisions of the prices: and International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
In particular, we focused on the appropriateness agreeing investment holdings to independently received of the valuation basis selected as well as the underlying third party confirmations.
Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 59 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you of our audit if, in our opinion: The materiality of the financial statements as a whole was set at adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 22.7m comprising 1.5% of total assets.
This has been calculated company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been with reference to a benchmark of total assets.
Total assets, received from branches not visited by us: or which is primarily composed of the companys investment portfolio, is considered the key driver of the companys capital the parent company financial statements and the part of and revenue performance and, as such, we believe that it is one the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not of the principal considerations for members of the company in in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or assessing its financial performance.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected by law are not made: or and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our we have not received all the information and explanations audit with a value in excess of 1.1m in addition to other audit we require for our audit: or misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
a Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Our audit of the company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was performed at the Caledonia Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Investments plc office in London.
the directors statement, set out on page 56, in relation 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act to going concern: and 2006 is unmodified the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 32 In our opinion: to 34 relating to the companys compliance with the nine the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies specified for our review.
Act 2006: We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the information given in the Strategic report and the Scope of report and responsibilities Directors report for the financial year for which the As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities financial statements are prepared is consistent with the statement set out on page 57, the directors are responsible financial statements: for the preparation of the financial statements and for being information given in the Corporate governance statement set satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description out on pages 32 to 34 with respect to internal control and risk of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided management systems in relation to financial reporting on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk processes and about share capital structures is consistent auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the with the financial statements.
companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which published on our website at www.
com uk we are required to report by exception auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, report as if set out in full and should be read to provide based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work identified other information in the annual report that contains we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to you if: for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants we have identified material inconsistencies between the 15 Canada Square knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors London E14 5GL statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 28 May 2014 understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
