The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of The City of London Investment Trust plc Report on the financial statements the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and Our opinion In our opinion the financial statements, dened below: the overall presentation of the financial statements.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 30 June 2014 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the ended: audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the Materiality remainder of this report.
We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the What we have audited financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements, which are prepared by The City of London Investment Trust plc, comprise: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be 10.7 million.
This the Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2014: represents approximately 1% of net assets.
We based our materiality on 1% of net assets because we believe this provides an appropriate the Income Statement for the year then ended: and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identied during our audit above 537,000 as well as the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted year then ended: and reporting for qualitative reasons.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Overview of the scope of the audit significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company managed by an independent investment manager, Henderson Global Investors The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Limited the Manager.
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The financial statements, which remain the responsibility of the Practice.
Directors, are prepared on their behalf by the Manager.
The Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework certain administrative functions to BNP Paribas Securities Services have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Company Administrator.
the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit we assessed the risks of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, What an audit of financial statements involves likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
As part of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards our risk assessment, we considered the Companys interaction with the Manager and Company Administrator, and we assessed the on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the control environment in place at both organisations to the extent financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the relevant to our audit of the Company.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each item in the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys financial statements to give us the evidence we needed for our circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately opinion on the financial statements.
disclosed: 33 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report continued Areas of particular audit focus Opinions on other matters prescribed by In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and the Companies Act 2006 other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained In our opinion: audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial We considered the following areas to be those that required statements are prepared is consistent with the financial particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all statements: risks or areas of focus identied by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act financial statements is set out on page 31.
2006, and the information in the Corporate Governance Statement set out How the scope of our audit Area of focus addressed the area of focus on pages 28 to 30 in the Annual Report with respect to internal Valuation and We tested the valuation of this control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
existence investment portfolio by agreeing the of investments valuation of investments to independent third party sources.
Other matters on which we are required to We focused on the investment portfolio We tested the existence of this report by exception investment portfolio by agreeing the valued at Adequacy of accounting records and information 1,151,477,000 which holdings to an independent custodian and explanations received comprises listed conrmation.
investments because this Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in represents the principal our opinion: element of the financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Risk of management We tested journal entries to override of internal determine whether adjustments were adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns controls supported by evidence and adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not appropriately authorised.
We also visited by us: or ISAs UK & Ireland built an element of unpredictability require that we consider into our detailed testing.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors this.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Directors remuneration As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in that it is appropriate to prepare the Companys financial statements our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain this responsibility.
in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of Corporate governance statement our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, concern basis is appropriate.
in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising However, because not all future events or conditions can be from this responsibility.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
34 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report continued On page 25 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision Responsibilities for the financial C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken statements and the audit as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Companys Our responsibilities and those of the Directors performance, business model and strategy.
On page 31, as required As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant Responsibilities set out on page 25, the Directors are responsible for issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are that they give a true and fair view.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & with our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing performing our audit: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 by us to the Audit Committee.
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of London performing our audit: or 17 September 2014 is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
