Independent auditors report To the Members of Bodycote plc Opinion on financial statements of Bodycote plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Group and Company Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 29 and 1 to 11 for the Group and Company financial statements respectively.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 23 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of non-current assets Given the Groups significant asset base and the continued We challenged the assumptions used in the impairment model for macro-economic uncertainties in certain global territories, this risk intangible and tangible assets.
As part of our procedures we: concerns the carrying value of intangible including goodwill and considered the appropriateness of the growth rate assumptions tangible fixed assets.
The Groups assessment of the carrying value by comparing them to historical trading performance for both of intangible and tangible fixed assets of 172.1m and 434.6m revenue and operating profit across the Groups geographical respectively requires significant judgement, as described in note 10 and market segments: and the key sources of estimation uncertainty within the accounting assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions concerning policies.
Particular attention is given to cash flow, growth rates, inputs to the discount rate against latest market expectations.
discount rates and sensitivity assumptions.
In performing our procedures, we used our internal valuation specialists and third party evidence to assess the appropriateness of the discount rate applied: and considered managements assertions of the future utilisation of assets supporting their carrying value by reviewing the strategic plan for the business by cash generating unit.
Environmental provisions Given the nature of the Groups operations, a risk arises in We evaluated the environmental provisions by comparing the connection with the appropriateness and completeness of the basis for the recognition of provisions against the regulatory 14.0m 2013: 13.8m environmental provisions, in particular, their and legal requirements, assessing the value of the provision judgemental nature relative to the likely period of utilisation as recognised and challenging the status and utilisation of provisions.
described in the critical judgements within the accounting policies.
As part of our audit procedures we reviewed third party evidence The risk arises predominantly within the US component.
and assumptions detailing the assessment of environmental liabilities for the Group together with correspondence from the Groups internal environmental remediation team.
As part of these procedures we also challenged the qualifications of managements experts.
Where applicable, we also verified environmental provisions to regulatory and legal correspondence.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report continued To the Members of Bodycote plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Taxation The tax risk concerns the judgements and estimates applied in In conjunction with our taxation audit specialists, we have the determination of tax balances, in particular in relation to the assessed and challenged the appropriateness of managements recognition of deferred tax assets for tax losses across the Group assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of as disclosed in note 19 and provisions for liabilities attributed to generating future taxable, as opposed to accounting, profits to specific uncertain tax positions linked to the Groups complex support the recognition of deferred tax assets by comparing to corporate structures.
forecast information and historical trends in loss utilisation.
We have also assessed the assumptions and judgements concerning the adequacy of tax provisions for uncertain tax positions by viewing the latest correspondence from the various tax authorities and drawing on the experience of our tax specialists in respect of similar situations.
Pensions This risk concerns the appropriateness of actuarial assumptions We have assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions in calculating the Groups IAS 19 gross liability of 129.5m 2013: underpinning the valuation of the scheme liabilities.
The valuation of the Groups IAS 19 deficit involves challenged the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions significant judgement as described in note 29 and in the key applied in the calculation by using our internal pension specialists sources of estimation uncertainty in the accounting policies, in to benchmark the assumptions applied against comparable third particular in relation to the discount rate, inflation and mortality party data and assess the appropriateness of the assumptions in assumptions.
the context of the Groups own position.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 48.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Revenue Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.9m 2013: 6.8m, which is below 5% 2013: 7.5% of pre-tax profit, and below 1% 2013: 1% of equity.
We have reduced the percentage applied to pre-tax profit to align more closely with comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 145,000 2013: 145,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Full audit scope 86% An overview of the scope of our audit Review at group level 14% Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group Profit before tax level.
In 2014 we have continued to have direct Group oversight, leadership and control over the components in the Shared Service Centre SSC in Prague and the USA.
We have further redesigned our audit work and the shape of the audit teams as more components have transitioned into the SSC.
Consistent with the prior year and as agreed with the Audit Committee, the smaller components in territories such as China, Singapore and Mexico have remained in scope and we have maintained the scoping levels in territories such as Brazil, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany and Turkey which were increased in 2013.
As a consequence of the audit scope determined, we achieved coverage of approximately 86% of revenue, 97% of profit before tax and 88% of net assets.
Our audit work at each location was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than group materiality.
Component materiality ranged from 0.5m to 2.9m.
Full audit scope 93% The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations Review at group level 7% included as full scope for the Group audit at least once every three years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, attend close meetings by conference call and video conferencing and review documentation of the findings from their work.
68 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nicola Mitchell Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester United Kingdom 26 February 2015 69 Stock code: BOY www.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
