Financial statements Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc Opinion on the financial statements of Direct Line Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by Insurance Group plc the IASB In our opinion: As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year Accounting Standards Board IASB.
then ended: In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with the Group financial statements have been properly prepared IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Going concern the Parent Company financial statements have been properly As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Directors statement on page 96 that the Group is a going European Union and as applied in accordance with the concern.
We confirm that: provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going the financial statements have been prepared in accordance concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, financial statements is appropriate: and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the we have not identified any material uncertainties that may International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as The financial statements comprise the consolidated income a going concern.
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive However, because not all future events or conditions can be income, the consolidated and Parent Company balance predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups sheets, the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow ability to continue as a going concern.
statements, the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 40 on the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement consolidated financial statements, and the related notes 1 to The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 17 on the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European the engagement team: Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have tested the design and implementation and operating The methodology and assumptions used in setting insurance reserves effectiveness of the key controls over the end-to-end reserving process.
We also tested the completeness and accuracy of Insurance reserves include the Groups insurance liabilities from the underlying data used in the actuarial calculations through continuing business totalling 4.7 billion as detailed in note performing reconciliations on the data back to the financial ledger 30, and the insurance liabilities held for sale, in relation to the and the actuarial data used by our Deloitte actuarial specialists.
International operations, totalling 553.4 million as detailed in note 5.
The determination of the value of the insurance reserves Having done this, we worked with those specialists to: requires significant judgment in the selection of key assumptions and methodologies.
Management exercises consider the suitability of the methodology used in setting significant judgement in respect of the trends in bodily injury insurance reserves: claims frequency and severity, the propensity for large claims challenge managements key assumptions and judgements to settle as periodic payment orders PPOs, the likely against industry benchmark: and outcome of the governments consultation on the Ogden discount rate used by the courts to calculate claims for longassess whether the reserving methodology has been applied term damages and other regulatory developments.
We also performed work to understand the sensitivity of insurance reserves to changes in key assumptions and methodology.
Version 10.0 Draft and Secret www.
com 99 Independent auditors report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have performed audit procedures over the valuation and The valuation of investments including complex financial instruments and their accounting treatment in accordance accounting of investments held by the Group.
We have tested with IAS 39 and IFRS 13 the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls over the investment valuation process.
On a The Groups financial investments shown in notes 25 and 19 represent the largest number on the balance sheet, 6.3 sample basis we have tested their valuation at the year end.
We also performed a review of sources and systems used by billion.
The Groups investment portfolio has become more the Group for valuation and compared valuations to those diversified with introduction of an infrastructure debt portfolio during 2014.
The valuation of financial investments held at obtained from an independent source using various data points where there was a degree of subjectivity.
We have reviewed fair value is based on a range of inputs.
Many of the inputs the classification and accounting treatment of the Groups required can be obtained from readily available liquid market prices and rates.
Where observable market data is not investment portfolio in line with the accounting polices set out in note 1.12 to the consolidated financial statements.
We also available, for example, when determining the valuation of have used our financial instrument valuation specialists, where investment property, estimates must be developed based on the most appropriate source data and are subject to appropriate, to test the valuation of complex financial instruments, such as derivatives and compliance with the significant judgement.
We have checked that the Groups disclosures satisfied the requirements of IAS 39, IFRS 7 and IFRS 13.
IT server migration We have tested the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of general IT controls around key IT processes on Towards the end of 2014, the Group began its program of the migrated applications and infrastructure, and have transitioning onto new IT servers independent from RBS Group understood the governance process over the IT migration itself.
There is a risk with a large and complex We have tested the Groups reconciliation of key financial migration of this nature of data loss and significant business data preand post-migration to check the completeness and interruption.
There is also a risk that the controls surrounding accuracy of the data migrated.
the new servers are inadequate.
Transformation projects We have tested the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of key business processes that have been subject There is a risk that the business transformation programmes to change.
We have tested the processes to determine undertaken by the Group could impact the internal financial whether appropriate segregation of duties continues to exist reporting control environment, in particular, in areas of the within the Groups system of internal controls.
For example, our business where there has been significant headcount reduction procedures included an assessment of the impact to the control or new processes and procedures have been introduced.
environment and processes from the wider implementation of There is a risk that there may no longer be an appropriate the new claims system in the Commercial division.
level of review or adequate segregation of duties.
We have tested the design and implementation and operating Reinsurance asset valuation effectiveness of the key controls over the reinsurance asset The valuation of the reinsurance asset in respect of the ceded measurement and valuation process.
part of the insurance reserves, as detailed in note 21, requires significant judgement to reflect the credit risk exposure to We have challenged managements key assumptions over long-term assets arising from PPOs.
credit risk and the calculation methodology, including a comparison of the underlying credit ratings for key reinsurance counterparties to independent sources.
We have also considered the consistency of the approach with the prior year.
We have tested the design and implementation and operating Revenue recognition effectiveness of the key controls over revenue recognition, Due to the large number of policies underwritten by the Group focusing on the flow of information from the underwriting there is a risk that the revenue recorded in the financial systems to the financial reporting ledger.
In addition, we statements and the flow of premium information from the underwriting systems to the financial reporting ledger is not performed substantive analytical testing procedures on the complete and accurate.
gross and unearned premium balances.
100 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 100 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on These six entities represent the principal business units and page 61. account for 98% 2013: 98% of the Groups net assets, 99% 2013: 99% of the Groups revenue and 95% 2013: 95% Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
Our application of materiality At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our financial statements that makes it probable that the economic conclusion that there were no significant risks of material decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of account balances.
The Group audit team also performs the our work.
audit of the UK entities which account for 93% of the Groups We have determined that the critical benchmark for the Group net assets and 94% of the Groups profit before tax.
was average pre-tax profit from ongoing operations.
This The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits measure uses a three-year average of profit before tax, that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor excluding the impact of discontinued activities and visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was transformation costs to exclude the effect of year-on-year focused at least once a year.
We calculated materiality for the Group to be 28 million 2013: 40 million, which is below 6.5% 2013: Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 8.48% of average pre-tax profit from ongoing operations.
We Act 2006 also considered this measure to be suitable having compared In our opinion: to other benchmarks: our materiality is 5.86% of statutory profit before tax, 0.76% of gross earned premium and below 1.5% the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited of equity.
Our materiality is lower than the level we set for the has been properly prepared in accordance with the year ended 31 December 2013 to reflect: the disposal of the Companies Act 2006: and Groups International business, with a consequential reduction the information given in the Strategic report and the in profit and premium income: emerging market practice: and Directors report for the financial year for which the financial guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Group statements are prepared is consistent with the financial materiality is used for setting audit scope and the assessment statements.
Component materialities are set for work on significant components audit testing for the main Matters on which we are required to report by UK insurance trading entity, which makes up 88% of Group exception revenue and 85% of Group statutory profit before tax, is Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records performed at component materiality of 25.1 million Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 2013: 25.5 million.
you if, in our opinion: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to we have not received all the information and explanations the Committee all audit differences in excess of 560,000 we require for our audit: or 2013: 800,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative adequate accounting records have not been kept by the grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not matters that we identified when assessing the overall been received from branches not visited by us: or presentation of the financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
An overview of the scope of our audit The scope of our Group audit was determined by obtaining We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope on the audit work at three primary operating locations: the UK: Italy: and Germany.
Four entities at these locations were subject to a full audit, a further two were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
com 101 Independent auditors report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have nothing to report This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies arising from these matters.
are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Corporate governance statement adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall part of the corporate governance statement relating to the presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited arising from our review.
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the in the Annual Report is: implications for our report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in David Rush FCA Senior Statutory Auditor the course of performing our audit: or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP otherwise misleading.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 2 March 2015 identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
102 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 102 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
