16310 Edinburgh pp36 58 16310 Edinburgh pp36 58 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 37 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 39 to 58.
In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of its total return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Carrying amount of Listed and Quoted Investments 1,417 million Refer to page 22 Audit Committee Report, page 42 accounting policy and notes 9 and 17 financial disclosures.
The risk: The Companys portfolio of listed investments makes up 98.4% of total assets by value and is considered to be a key driver of the Companys capital and revenue performance.
We do not consider these investments to be at high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level of judgement, because they comprise liquid, quoted investments.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they are considered to be one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
Our response: Our procedures over the existence, completeness and valuation of the Companys portfolio of listed investments included, but were not limited to: documenting and assessing the processes in place to record investment transactions and to value the portfolio: agreeing the valuation of 100% of the investments to externally quoted prices: and agreeing 100% of the investment holdings to independently received third party confirmations.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 28.4 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of the Total Assets figure of which it represents 2%.
The Total Assets figure is primarily composed of the Companys investment portfolio, which is considered the key driver of the Companys capital and revenue performance and, as such, we consider it to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Company.
In addition, we applied a materiality of 3.3 million to income from investments, management fees including performance fee and finance cost of borrowings for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the members of the Company taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 1.42 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was all performed at the Companys service provider, Invesco Asset Management Limited, based in London.
16310 Edinburgh pp36 58 16310 Edinburgh pp36 58 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 38 38 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under International Standards of Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 28, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page20 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Salim Tharani Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2EG 27 May 2014
