Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Electra Private Equity PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of the groups profit and the groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Electra Private Equity PLCs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2014: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and the Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended: the Consolidated and the Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview: Materiality: Overall group materiality: 21 million which represents 1.75% of net assets.
Audit scope: The principal activities of the group comprise investing in a portfolio of private equity investments.
The group is based solely in the UK and the financial statements are a consolidation of the parent company and a number of subsidiaries which hold the private equity investments.
We have audited the financial statements of the two significant subsidiaries, the parent company and the investments held by a number of limited partnerships controlled by the group which themselves do not require an audit.
Our areas of focus comprise: Valuation of unlisted investments.
Risk of fraud in the recognition of investment income and net gains.
Calculation of incentive schemes and priority profit share.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
98 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of unlisted investments The unlisted investments are initially valued by the independent Refer to page 124 Report of the Audit investment manager the Manager and then subject to review by the Committee, page 92 Basis of Accounting Groups Valuations Committee.
We attended the Valuations Committee and Significant Accounting Policies and meeting to observe this process and assess the level of challenge and page 72 Notes of the Accounts.
rigour in the valuations process.
This also enabled us to discuss with and challenge the Manager as to the appropriateness of the valuations using The Group holds investments in unlisted our knowledge of the investments and the International Private Equity private equity vehicles as well as various and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines.
private equity funds and listed companies.
The majority of the unlisted investments have been valued based on The valuation of the unlisted investments is a multiple of earnings.
We tested the techniques that the Manager used complex and requires significant judgement to value these unlisted investments as follows: by the directors.
The unlisted investments are valued on a basis considered most We obtained the Managers valuation model containing earnings, appropriate by the directors dependent on trading multiples for listed comparable companies and the multiple the nature of the underlying business which used to value the investment.
This includes: We checked the mathematical accuracy of the model.
We corroborated the earnings being used in the model using Applying a multiple to earnings: management information and other data including budgets Using recent transaction prices: and and forecasts in relation to the portfolio company being valued.
We assessed the appropriateness of the earnings being used based on our understanding of the financial position of the Both determining the valuation portfolio companies.
methodology and determining the inputs We independently sourced trading multiples for comparable to the valuation are subjective.
This, companies including, where applicable, considering other combined with the significance of the comparable companies which may be relevant.
unlisted investments balance to the balance We challenged management on the discount taken to these sheet, meant that this was an area of focus comparable multiples to arrive at the multiple used in their for our audit.
This included considering changes in the discount since the deal date and how this compared relative to the performance of the portfolio company against the relevant industry sector.
Where a recent transaction has been used as a source to fair value investments, we challenged the Manager on whether there had been any changes in facts and circumstances since the deal date which may indicate that a change in valuation would be appropriate.
This included a review of financial information to assess performance of the company.
Where underlying asset valuations were used we corroborated these to supporting documentation such as third party valuation reports.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 99 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Area of focus continued How our audit addressed the area of focus continued Recognition of investment income and We tested investment income receipts to supporting documentation net gains by performing procedures, including: See page 94 to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of the related agreeing amounts to bank statements: and accounting policies, judgements and re-calculating accrued interest based on the terms of investment policies and page 68 for further information.
Investment income comprises mainly We recalculated unrealised net gains based on the valuation movement dividends and interest received from in investments over the year.
These gains are supported by the work we investments.
have performed over investment valuations as outlined above.
Net gains represent fair value increases in We recalculated realised gains based on the difference between the the value of investments over the financial value of the investment at the date of disposal and the proceeds year and gains made on the disposal of received as per supporting documentation such as sales agreements investments.
Fair value movements are and bank statements.
unrealised and are based on the change in investment valuations which in themselves We also assessed the appropriateness of the allocation of investment are subjective as noted above.
income and net gains between income and capital based on the requirements of the Association of Investment Companies Statement Investment income and net gains is the of Recommended Practice.
measure used to calculate returns being achieved by the group and so there is a potential incentive for management to overstate this figure in order to enhance results.
This, combined with the size of the balance, made this an area of focus.
100 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Area of focus continued How our audit addressed the area of focus continued Calculation of incentive schemes We recalculated the amounts due to the Manager based on the provisions and priority profit share charges methodology and fee rates outlined in management agreements.
See pages 95 and 96 to the financial We tested the methodologies applied for each of the separate statements for the directors disclosures of schemes based on the underlying scheme documentation.
the related accounting policies, judgements and policies and note 22 for further Where applicable, we checked inputs to the calculation back to information.
supporting documentation such as: Incentive scheme provisions comprise Agreeing gains recognised on the sale of investments to the work amounts payable to certain members of the we performed over net gains: Manager to compensate them for their Agreeing the gross value of investments to the work we performed services in a way which aligns their over the fair value of investments: remuneration with investment performance.
Agreeing total profits and returns to the work we performed over There are a number of different schemes in investment income: place and the calculations are relatively complex which increases the risk of error.
We also recalculated the returns achieved to ensure that the conditions of the incentive scheme agreements had been met before the The incentive scheme provisions are incentives were paid.
calculated based on a percentage share of a combination of: For the priority profit share we have recalculated the amounts paid each quarter and agreed the inputs to the calculation to the underlying The gross value of investments held: accounting records.
We have also ensured that the calculation was Total profits and returns of the consistent with the underlying priority profit share agreement and was investments: and mathematically accurate.
Profits realised on the sale of investments.
In some instances the percentages are variable based on when certain returns are achieved.
This, together with the dependency on investment valuations means that some of the calculations are based on subjective judgements.
In addition, the Manager is paid a priority profit share based on a percentage of the value of investments at each quarter end.
Similarly to the incentive schemes, the investment valuations are a key input to the calculation and these are subjective in nature.
The nature of both the incentive scheme provisions and priority profit share charges means that there is a related party relationship and there may be an incentive for these to be overstated.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 101 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview The Group has one line of business which is to make investments, primarily in the private equity sector.
The objective of the group is to increase the value of these investments over the long-term in order to deliver returns to shareholders.
The Group comprises a number of subsidiary companies, including limited partnerships which hold the investments.
The Manager of the investments is not part of the group.
All accounting is performed by a finance function in the UK.
Audit work has been performed in respect of the two significant subsidiaries for which we are also the auditor, together with the parent company.
The limited partnerships which hold the investments do not require an audit, however we have audited the investments held by them.
This, together with procedures performed over the consolidation, has provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 21 million 2013: 18 million.
How we determined it 1.75% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that net assets is the most appropriate benchmark because this is the key metric of interest to investors.
It is also a generally accepted measure used for companies in this industry.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2013: 900k as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 109, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 119 to 123 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
102 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial from this responsibility.
statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 126, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report arising provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that from this responsibility.
they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 124, as required by provision We have no exceptions to report arising C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does from this responsibility.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 103 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 126, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alison Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 November 2014 a T he maintenance and integrity of the Electra Private Equity PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
104 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 AXIO Data Group B2B information services Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 105
