70 Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit The valuation of claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified is dependent on the valuation of the underlying claims We have audited the financial statements of esure Group plc for outstanding and as a result is subject to the same estimation the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 73 to 121. uncertainties as the claims outstanding.
Reinsurance recoveries In our opinion: are also subject to credit risk associated with reinsurer credit default.
There are no indicators of credit default issues on The financial statements give a true and fair view of the reported claims, however credit risk is relevant for the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as recoveries associated with the claims outstanding that have at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year a long duration.
then ended During the year, management have shifted the level of reliance The Group financial statements have been properly away from the external actuary to its in-house function with prepared in accordance with International Financial the results of the external actuary now being considered as a Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union second line of defence.
The underlying data used by the external actuary and in-house function are the same, and the main audit The parent company financial statements have been properly risk as a result of this change in reliance by management relates prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards to the competency of the in-house actuarial function and the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance appropriateness of the methodologies adopted.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Our response In this area audit procedures included testing as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the governance arrangements and key controls around the internal IAS Regulation reserving process, including controls over the setting of 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement reserves for reported claims, controls over the completeness In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements and accuracy of the data underlying the actuarial projections the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect used to set the reserve for IBNR, as well as substantive on our audit were as follows: procedures over the projections made by the actuaries.
We also considered the findings of the external actuarys review of Claims outstanding 597.3m and claims outstanding claims outstanding as part of our audit.
Our actuarial specialists recoverable from reinsurers 194.4m were involved in the detailed audit work around this risk.
Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 83 Through critical assessment of relevant documentation, including accounting policy and pages 104 to 109 financial disclosures.
the final report of the external actuary, and discussion with The risk As part of its business model the Group incurs both Directors and the internal actuary, we have obtained an significant claims.
There is typically a time lag between a claim understanding of the reserving methodology and the key being incurred and being settled.
As a result, the Group has assumptions used including the inflation rate used for the significant claims outstanding at any point in time, including the average cost of small bodily injury claims and the discount rate year-end, and there is inherent uncertainty as to the level at used for the periodic payment orders structured settlements which these claims outstanding will be settled.
At 31 December in the form of a regular series of payments over the remainder 2014 the Group had claims outstanding representing 57% of of a claimants life.
We have assessed these assumptions for total liabilities, and claims outstanding recoverable from reasonableness, through analytical procedures including claims reinsurers representing 15% of total assets.
development trends over time and benchmarking of key reserving metrics against our expectations, as well as The valuation of claims outstanding is one of the key consistency with prior periods.
We considered the movement in judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on, due to the reserves relating to claims incurred in prior years to assess the level of subjectivity inherent in the estimation of the effect of reasonableness of Directors past assumptions and the uncertain or unknown future events and the resulting potential methodology used to estimate claims outstanding.
Where there exposure to large losses, including those arising from periodic have been changes in the methodology or key assumptions we payment orders for Motor insurance a structured settlement in have assessed whether these are reasonable based on changes the form of a regular series of payments over the remainder of in the industry and the Groups historical claims experience, and a claimants life, see page 105 and extreme weather condition have considered whether all changes we would expect to see losses for Home insurance.
The calculation of claims have been made.
We have also considered the reasonableness outstanding is complex and requires the use of actuarial of the differences in methodologies, assumptions and projections techniques to estimate the reserve for claims incurred but not between the internal and external actuary by understanding the reported IBNR.
The Directors set the claims outstanding rationale for both approaches and comparing the impact of these reserves at a level that they consider includes an appropriate differences on the outputs in the context of materiality.
margin over the esure actuarial best estimate, in order to take account of current uncertainties around factors that may We benchmarked the Groups methodology, key assumptions, influence the value of reserves.
and projected results such as the ultimate loss ratios against our expectations given our cumulative knowledge of the sector.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 71 In respect of the margin that the Directors have set over the 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies esure actuarial best estimate, we considered the consistency of Act 2006 is unmodified the basis for the margin applied to the actuarial best estimate In our opinion: year-on-year.
This included an assessment of the potential The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be uncertainties that have been reserved for within the margin.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We also evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity the Companies Act 2006 of the internal and external actuaries, based on discussions with The information given in the Strategic Report and them, our knowledge of the actuaries qualifications and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the professional standards that their work is subject to, and by financial statements are prepared is consistent with the providing challenge to their analysis through the procedures financial statements described above.
We used our own actuarial specialists to assist in performing the procedures described.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, disclosures about the degree of estimation uncertainty and the based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions, identified other information in the Annual Report that contains and assessed whether the disclosures comply with relevant a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounting standards.
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that We evaluated and tested key controls around reinsurers share is otherwise misleading.
of claims outstanding, including controls over approval of In particular, we are required to report to you if: reinsurance contracts and calculation of reinsurance recoveries, and reinsurance credit controls.
We used our actuarial We have identified material inconsistencies between the specialists to assist in evaluating the appropriateness of knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors reinsurance recoveries on IBNR by considering the historical statement that they consider that the Annual Report and ratios of paid and reported claims net of reinsurance recoveries financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and to paid and reported claims gross of reinsurance recoveries.
We understandable and provides the information necessary for have also obtained an understanding of the methodology shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business applied to calculate the allowance for reinsurance bad debt model and strategy, or which is included within claims outstanding, and we have The Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately assessed the methodology for appropriateness and consistency address matters communicated by us to the Audit with prior periods.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you of our audit if, in our opinion: The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 7.2m, determined with reference to a benchmark Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 7%.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us, or We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.36m, in addition to The parent company financial statements and the part of other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not qualitative grounds.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns, or Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed for all key Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by reporting components material subsidiaries or joint ventures.
law are not made, or The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes were We have not received all the information and explanations undertaken by the Group audit team with the exception of we require for our audit Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited Gocompare where the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: audit was undertaken by UK component auditors who reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team instructed The Directors statement, set out on page 67, in relation the component auditor as to the significant areas to be covered, to going concern, and including the relevant risks and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the Gocompare The part of the Corporate governance report on pages 40 materiality of 3.2m for Group reporting purposes.
to 51 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code These Group audit procedures covered 100% of total Group specified for our review revenue: 100% of Group profit before taxation: and 100% of We have nothing to report in respect of the above total Group assets as audits were performed for all components.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 72 Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc only continued Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Murray Raisbeck Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 9 March 2014 esure Group Annual Report 2014
