Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Bovis Homes Group PLC Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit the appraisals to published indices.
We also challenged the 1 Our opinion on the financial statements groups forecast of build cost per square foot by comparing is unmodified to the build costs for similar units on other sites and where We have audited the financial statements of Bovis Homes Group there were differences we corroborated the finance teams PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 75 explanations against subcontractor quotes.
In our opinion: was focused on low margin sites which are considered to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state have the most sensitivity to the Directors assumptions.
We of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year respect of the provision held against inventory carried at net then ended: realisable value.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared Valuation of available for sale financial assets shared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards equity 39.4 million as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Refer to page 63 Audit committee report, page 85 accounting the parent company financial statements have been properly policy and pages 86 to 90 financial disclosures.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU The risk - Available for sale financial assets are amounts and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the receivable on extended terms granted as part of a sales Companies Act 2006: and transaction where the final amount repayable is dependent the financial statements have been prepared in accordance upon the value of the house at the repayment date, and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as are carried at fair value.
The valuation of these assets is regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the not based upon observable market data.
Hence, the group IAS Regulation.
uses a valuation model for which a number of assumptions have to be made, the key ones being expected house price 2 Our assessment of risks of material movements and the discount rate reflecting, inter alia, the misstatement time value of money and the risk that the borrower is unable In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial to repay the amount receivable.
Changes in the assumptions statements the risks of material misstatement that had the used could have a material effect on the output of the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: valuation model and hence on the carrying value of the assets.
Net realisable value of inventories 1,125.5 million Our response - Our audit procedures in this area included Refer to page 63 Audit committee report, page 83 accounting comparing the discount rate used in the valuation model policy and pages 83 financial disclosures.
to our own research on private transactions in mortgage The risk - Inventories, which principally comprise the groups and secured loans portfolios with assistance from our own land held for development and work in progress, are stated valuation specialist and expected house price movements at the lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast to house price forecasts published by real estate agents.
We selling price less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An challenged the groups estimate of the fair value by reference assessment of the net realisable value of inventory is carried to profits losses earned from redemptions in the year and out at each balance sheet date and is dependent upon the assessing how the experience to date had been included as groups estimate of forecast selling prices and build costs by part of the groups reassessment of assumptions.
We also reference to current prices.
18.6 million of inventory is held re-performed the groups sensitivity analysis on the valuation at net realisable value.
Accordingly, a change in the groups and assessed whether the groups disclosures about the estimate of sales price and build cost could have a material sensitivity of the outcome of the valuation to changes in key impact on the carrying value of inventories.
assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the Our response - Our audit procedures in this area included valuation of available for sale assets.
challenging the groups forecast sales prices by comparing the forecast sales prices of a sample of houses to sales prices achieved and list prices of comparable houses as published by estate agents.
We compared sales price trends forecast in 72 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 3 Our application of materiality and an overview in our opinion: of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent set at 6.7 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been group profit before taxation of which it represents 5%.
received from branches not visited by us: or We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected the parent company financial statements and the part of identified misstatements exceeding 0.3 million, in addition to the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on agreement with the accounting records and returns: or qualitative grounds.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are The groups operations are all accounted for at the groups head not made: or office in New Ash Green, Kent.
The group audit team performed we have not received all the information and explanations we the audit of the group as if it was a single aggregated set of require for our audit.
The audit was performed using the materiality Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: level set out above and covered 100% of total group revenue, group profit before taxation, and total group assets.
Visits were the directors statement, set out on page 41, in relation to going made to regional offices for the purposes of performing audit concern: and fieldwork, tests of controls and making enquiries of regional the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 35 management.
to 43 relating to the companys compliance with the ten 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Scope of report and responsibilities been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement 2006: and set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Report for the financial year for which the financial statements true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made 5 We have nothing to report in respect of solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to matters on which we are required to report important explanations and disclaimers regarding our by exception responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of identified other information in the annual report that contains a the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial basis of our opinions.
statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Stephen Wardell we have identified material inconsistencies between the Senior Statutory Auditor knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor statement that they consider that the annual report and financial Chartered Accountants statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable London and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 20 February 2015 the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 73 74 | Annual report and accounts | Financial statements 2014 Financial statements
