FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity China misstatement or an omission from the financial statements or Special Situations PLC for the year ended 31 March 2014 which related disclosures that would make it probable that the comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in judgement of a reasonable person, relying on the information, Equity, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the would have been changed or inuenced by the misstatement or related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been omission.
We also determine a level of performance materiality applied in their preparation is applicable law and International which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the reduce to an appropriately low level, the probability that the European Union.
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies We established materiality for the financial statements as a Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might whole to be 6,562,000, which is 1% of the Companys net assets.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required For the revenue column of the income statement we determined to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
that misstatements for a lesser amount than materiality for the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or financial statements as a whole would make it probable that the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the judgement of a reasonable person, relying on the information, Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this would have been changed or inuenced by the misstatement or report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Accordingly, we established materiality for the income statement to be 1,640,000.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We have determined the threshold at which we communicate Responsibilities set out on page 36, the Directors are responsible misstatements to the Audit Committee to be 328,000.
In for the preparation of the financial statements and for being addition, we communicate misstatements below that threshold satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Our assessment of risk Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following matters with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
that are, in our judgement, likely to be most important to users understanding of our audit.
Our audit procedures relating to SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at on individual transactions, balances or disclosures.
Investments AUDITOR COMMENTARY The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a An overview of the scope of our audit view to profit from the total return in the form of revenue and Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of capital gains.
Accordingly, the investment portfolio, which the Companys business and is risk-based.
The day-to-day includes both quoted and unquoted companies and Contracts management of the Companys investment portfolio, the custody For Dierence CFDs, is a significant and material item in the of its investments and the maintenance of the Companys Balance Sheet.
We therefore identied the valuation and accounting records is outsourced to third-party service providers.
existence of these items as significant risks that required special Accordingly, our audit work is focused on obtaining an audit consideration.
understanding of, and evaluating, internal controls at the Company and relevant third-party service providers.
This Existence and Valuation of Quoted Investments included a review of reports on the description, design and Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, understanding operating eectiveness of internal controls at the relevant managements process to recognise and measure the fair value third-party service providers.
We undertook substantive testing of the investment portfolio of quoted investments in order to on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent confirm compliance with relevant accounting standards, and of which was based on various factors such as our overall verication of the existence of those investments.
We agreed the assessment of the control environment, the design eectiveness valuation of all the quoted investments to an independent source of controls over individual systems and the management of of market prices and we tested the determination of the specic risks.
valuation of CFDs by agreement of the contract price to the report from the independent custodian and the settlement price Our application of materiality to an independent source of market prices.
We obtained We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing conrmation of investments and CFDs held at the year-end our audit, in evaluating the eect of any identied misstatements directly from the independent custodian, tested the reconciliation and in forming our opinion.
For the purpose of determining of the custodian records to the records maintained by the whether the financial statements are free from material Companys administrator, and tested a selection of investment misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of a and CFD additions and disposals shown in the Companys Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 37 FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC records to supporting documentation.
The Companys accounting Management Hong Kong Limited containing the performance policy on the valuation of quoted investments is included in fee arrangements and obtaining an understanding of the basis Note2, and its disclosures about quoted investments held at the of calculation.
We then checked the calculation of the fee was year-end are included in Note 10. consistent with the performance fee arrangements.
In addition, we compared the performance to the MSCI China Index as a Existence and Valuation of Unquoted Investments benchmark, which in turn had been agreed to an independent Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, understanding data provider.
managements process to recognise and measure the fair value of the investment portfolio of unquoted investments in order to The Companys accounting policy on the performance fee is confirm compliance with relevant accounting standards, and included in Note 2 and the disclosures about the amount of the verication of the existence of those investments.
We assessed performance fee are included in Note 4. the valuation of the unquoted investments by: obtaining an understanding of how the valuations were performed: OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consideration of whether the valuations were performed in In our opinion the financial statements: accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines issued in 2012: discussions with the t HJWF B USVF BOE GBJS WJFX PG UIF TUBUF PG UIF $PNQBOZ T BBJST investment manager: and reviewing and challenging the basis as at 31 March 2014 and of its net profit for the year then and reasonableness of the assumptions made by the investment ended: manager in conjunction with available supporting information.
t IBWF CFFO QSPQFSMZ QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI '34T BT We obtained conrmation of unquoted investments held at the adopted by the European Union: and year-end directly from the independent custodian and tested the t IBWF CFFO QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI UIF SFRVJSFNFOUT PG reconciliation of the custodian records to the records maintained the Companies Act 2006. by the Companys administrator.
The Companys accounting policy on the valuation of unquoted investments is included in OTHER REPORTING RESPONSIBILITIES Note 2, and its disclosures about unquoted investments held at Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the year-end are included in Note 10.
Act2006 In our opinion: Recognition of income from Investments Investment income is the Companys major source of revenue t UIF QBSU PG UIF %JSFDUPST 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU UP CF BVEJUFE and a significant, material item in the Income Statement.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Accordingly, the recognition of investment income, which Companies Act 2006: and materially comprises dividends received and receivable, is t UIF JOGPSNBUJPO HJWFO JO UIF 4USBUFHJD 3FQPSU BOE UIF therefore a significant risk that requires special audit attention.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: assessing statements.
whether the Companys accounting policy for income recognition is in accordance with International Financial Reporting Matters on which we are required to report by exception Standards: obtaining an understanding of managements We have nothing to report in respect of the following: process for recognising income in accordance with the stated accounting policy, for a sample of investments held in the period Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, conrming that income that should have been received has been we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in received and was recorded.
We also assessed whether any of the annual report is: the dividends should have been treated as capital receipts.
t NBUFSJBMMZ JODPOTJTUFOU XJUI UIF JOGPSNBUJPO JO UIF BVEJUFE The Companys accounting policy on the recognition of income financial statements: or from investments is included in Note 2 and the components of t BQQBSFOUMZ NBUFSJBMMZ JODPSSFDU CBTFE PO PS NBUFSJBMMZ that revenue are included in Note 3. inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Performance fee measurement t PUIFSXJTF NJTMFBEJOH The investment management agreement between the Company and its investment manager includes provision for a performance In particular, we are required to consider whether we have fee to be paid to the manager in certain circumstances.
The identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired basis of the fee calculation is complex and therefore could be during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider calculated incorrectly.
We therefore identied the measurement the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, and of the performance fee as requiring particular audit whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters consideration.
that were communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, reading the agreement with FIL Investments International and FIL Investment Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 38 FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: t BEFRVBUF BDDPVOUJOH SFDPSET IBWF OPU CFFO LFQU PS SFUVSOT adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or t UIF mOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT BOE UIF QBSU PG UIF %JSFDUPST Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or t DFSUBJO EJTDMPTVSFT PG %JSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO TQFDJmFE CZ MBX are not made: or t XF IBWF OPU SFDFJWFE BMM UIF JOGPSNBUJPO BOE FYQMBOBUJPOT XF require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: t UIF %JSFDUPST TUBUFNFOU TFU PVU PO QBHF JO SFMBUJPO UP going concern: and t UIF QBSU PG UIF $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU SFMBUJOH UP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Marcus Swales Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 6 June 2014 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 39
