FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS investments to an independent source of market prices: testing UNMODIFIED the valuation of CFDs by agreeing the contract price to the In our opinion the Financial Statements: confirmation from the counterparty and the year end market price of the underlying quoted investments to an independent give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs source of market prices: and in order to confirm investments are as at 31 December 2014 and of its net return for the year then actively traded we obtained trading volumes of listed ended: investments held at the year end.
have been properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United The Companys accounting policy on the valuation of quoted Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice : and investments is shown in Note 1, its disclosures about investment have been prepared in accordance with the requirements movements are included in Note 9 and its disclosures on CFDs ofthe Companies Act 2006. are included in Note 10.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Completeness and occurrence of investment income Fidelity European Values PLCs Financial Statements comprise The risk: The Company measures performance on a total return theIncome Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in basis that includes revenue and investment income is one of Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow thelargest numbers in the Income Statement.
We identified Statement and the related Notes.
therecognition of investment income as a risk that required particular audit attention.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, Practice.
assessing whether the Companys accounting policy for revenue recognition was in accordance with United Kingdom Generally OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK Accepted Accounting Practice: obtaining an understanding of the Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following matters Companys process for recognising revenue in accordance with that are, in our judgement, likely to be most important to users the stated accounting policy: testing whether a sample of income understanding of our audit.
transactions was recognised in accordance with the policy: for a sample of investments held in the year, obtaining the ex-dividend Ownership and valuation of investments and long Contracts dates and rates for dividends declared during the year from an For Differences CFDs independent source and agreeing the expected dividend The risk: The Companys business is investing principally in entitlements to those recognised in the general ledger: continental European securities with a view to achieving long performing cut-off testing of dividend income around the year term capital growth.
As a consequence of this, the Company has end: and checking the categorisation of special dividends as significant exposure to investments and long CFDs, which are the either revenue or capital receipts.
main drivers of returns, with the investment portfolio valued at 716m and the CFDs having a market exposure of 45m.
There The Companys accounting policy on the recognition of isa risk that investments and CFDs shown in the Balance Sheet investment income is shown in Note 1 and the components of may not be owned by the Company or are incorrectly valued.
that income are included in Note 2.
We identified ownership and valuation of investments and CFDs as risks that required particular audit attention.
Calculation of the investment management and performance fees Our response on ownership: In order to confirm that the The risk: The Company receives from the Manager, management, balances referred to above were owned by the Company our accounting, administrative and secretarial services pursuant to a audit work included, but was not restricted to, understanding revised management agreement dated 17 July 2014.
The managements process to safeguard assets: obtaining and agreement provides for the payment of an investment reading a report prepared on the design and operation of management fee and a performance fee provided certain controls at the Custodian: obtaining a confirmation from the specified conditions have been met.
We identified a risk of Custodian of the investments they were holding at the year end calculation error in the investment management fee and and for the CFDs obtaining a confirmation from the counterparty performance fee and that this required particular audit attention.
of open CFD contracts at the year end: and testing the reconciliation of both the Custodian and counterparty statements Our response: In order to assess the accuracy of the investment to the records maintained by the Company.
management fee and performance fee, we recalculated the expected management and performance fees based on the Our response on valuation: Our audit work on valuation included, terms of the management agreement and compared this to the but was not restricted to, understanding managements process amounts recognised in the Income Statement.
to value quoted investments and CFDs: obtaining a confirmation from the counterparty to the CFDs of the terms of the contracts The Companys disclosure of the investment management and entered into: agreeing the valuation of 100% of the quoted performance fees is shown in Note 3.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 38 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC ALLOCATION OF AUDIT TESTING TIME We are independent of the Company in accordance with the The chart below identifies the allocation of time in our audit Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we testing of the main parts of the Financial Statements.
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those Ethical Standards.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic the Companys business and is risk-based.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We determined materiality for the audit The day-to-day management of the Companys investment of the Financial Statements as a whole to be 7.25m, which is portfolio, the maintenance of accounting records, custody of 1%of the Companys net assets.
This benchmark is considered investments and administrative and company secretarial services most appropriate because net assets, which is primarily are outsourced to third-party service providers.
Accordingly, our composed of the Companys investment portfolio, is considered audit work included obtaining an understanding of, and to be the key driver of the Companys total return performance.
evaluating, relevant internal controls at both the Company and We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, third-party service providers.
This included obtaining and to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of reading internal controls reports from the Manager and Financial Statement materiality.
We also determine a lower Custodian.
We undertook substantive testing on significant levelof specific materiality for certain items such as Directors transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent ofwhich was remuneration and related party transactions.
based on various factors such as our overall assessment of the control environment and the design and implementation of We determined a threshold at which we communicate controls and the management of specific risks.
misstatements to the Audit Committee of 0.36m, while also communicating misstatements below that threshold that warrant OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY REGULATIONS reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited under those standards are further described in the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Companies Act 2006: and section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis Report for the financial year for which the Financial for our opinion.
Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY Where we focused our audit effort EXCEPTION Investments We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 10% CFDs Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report Investment income 13% to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 35% Directors remuneration materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Taxation Financial Statements: or 11% apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Investment management and performance fees inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Other operating expenses 6% 2% otherwise misleading.
7% Management override 10% of controls 3% 3% In particular, we are required to report to you if: Equity we have identified any inconsistencies between our Corporate and financial knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors reporting Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: or the Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 39 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 FINANCIAL Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: the Directors Statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT What an audit of Financial Statements involves: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
What the Directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 37, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What we are responsible for: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Who we are reporting to: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Julian Bartlett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 13 March 2015 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 40 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
