l. c.  Inouropinion:  : :  : and ,  statements, .
We  SeeACandAP :  , depreciation, depletion&amortisationand  SeeACandAP :  SeeAC :  SeeACandAP : 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c website is the responsibility of BP p. l. c. : the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
 91 With the exception of the risk related to the recent significant decrease in the oil price the other risks are consistent with the prior year.
The risk we identified in the prior year related to the determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the Rosneft business on acquisition of the equity interest is not relevant to the current period as the acquisition was completed and accounted for in the prior year.
Our application of materiality We quantify materiality in planning and executing the audit and in evaluating the materiality of misstatements on the financial statements and the effect they have on our audit.
In determining if the financial statements are free from material error, we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
The evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and the consideration of both qualitative and quantitative factors.
We determined materiality for the group to be $1 billion 2013 $1 billion, which represents 5% of underlying replacement cost profit as defined on page 255 before tax having added back charges related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill response.
We used this measure to calculate our materiality to exclude the impact of both changes in crude oil and product prices and items disclosed as non-operating items that can significantly distort the results.
This provides a basis for assessing the importance of misstatements and in determining the scope of our audit procedures.
We determined, based on our risk assessment and consideration of the groups control environment, that performance materiality be set at 75% of our materiality for the group, namely at $750 million 2013 $750 million.
Performance materiality is the application of materiality at an individual account or balance level and is set to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Audit work on individual locations is undertaken using a percentage of our total performance materiality.
We allocate performance materiality to the components of the group we audit based on their relative risk and size.
The range of performance materiality allocated to components in 2014 was $150 million to $640 million 2013 $150 million to $640 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report all audit differences in excess of $50 million 2013 $50 million.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit scope is risk based and is designed to focus our efforts on the areas at greatest risk of material misstatement, aspects subject to significant management judgement and on the locations of greatest complexity, risk and size.
We design and execute our audit based primarily on our assessment of the risks particular to this company and the industry in which it operates.
In scoping the audit we view the group as 42 Regional Performance Units RPUs plus the group functions.
The group audit scope focused on 19 RPUs in the US, Azerbaijan, Angola, UK, Germany, Russia, Singapore and the group functions.
We designed specific procedures for these locations and functions to provide an appropriate basis for executing audit work to address the risk of material misstatement.
This included the audit of all accounts that were impacted by our assessment of the risks of material misstatement identified above.
We note that for these RPUs we do not include all balances at these entities in our specific audit scope, based on our assessment of risk we exclude certain low risk, lower value balances.
The specific in scope locations represent audit coverage of 71% 2013 68% of revenue and 63% 2013 72% of property, plant and equipment.
Our procedures at the locations in group scope included assessment and testing of managements financial controls and other substantive and analytical verification procedures.
For those locations and balances that are not subject to specific group scoping there are many small, low risk locations and balances in the 23 RPUs not included in our specific scope we assess and test managements group wide controls and undertake analytical and enquiry procedures to address the residual risk of material misstatement.
One of the key locations is Russia which includes Rosneft, a material associate not controlled by BP.
We were provided with appropriate access to Rosnefts auditors in order to ensure they had completed the procedures required by ISA 600 on the financial statements of Rosneft used as the basis for BPs equity accounting.
The Group audit team continued to undertake a programme of planned visits to significant locations to ensure the audit is executed and delivered in accordance with the planned approach and to confirm the quality of the audit work undertaken.
Our response to the risks of material misstatement identified above included the following procedures: The determination of the liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosures arising from the significant uncertainties related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill We continued to assess developments in legal cases related to claims and penalties through reading the determinations and judgments made by the courts, discussions with the BP legal team and correspondence with external lawyers.
The determination of liabilities related to the oil spill takes months and years to evolve and during 2014 there were some significant developments in loss claims and potential penalties, specifically related to the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement and Clean Water Act penalties see Note 2, that we considered in assessing the requirements of IFRS in relation to liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosure.
Where appropriate we deployed valuation and modelling experts to inform our assessment.
There is significant uncertainty related to the ultimate liabilities and we considered the disclosures related to these uncertainties and concluded that it was appropriate to include an emphasis of matter related to these uncertainties in this report.
The significant decline in oil and gas prices since late 2014 has the potential for a material impact on the carrying value of the groups assets.
Movements in commodity prices can have a significant effect on the carrying value of the groups assets.
A significant and rapid drop in prices will also quickly impact the groups operations and cash flows.
We assessed the principal risk arising in relation to the financial statements to be associated with the carrying value of tangible and intangible assets, many of which are supported by an assessment of future cash flows.
The assessment of the asset carrying values is further complicated as external market evidence, such as market transactions, become less reliable in a period of significant change to the price of oil.
We extended the scope of our procedures to address the change in risk profile of the groups assets and to scrutinize impairment considerations.
We extended the use of our own valuation experts and external data in critically assessing and corroborating the revised assumptions used in impairment testing, the most significant being future market oil prices, reserves and resources volumes and discount rates.
We also performed audit procedures on the mathematical integrity of the impairment models and sensitivity analysis and procedures to ensure the completeness of the impairment charge and exploration write offs.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
92 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Financial statements The estimate of oil and gas reserves and resources which has a significant impact on impairment tests, depreciation, depletion & amortisation and decommissioning provisions We carried out testing of controls over BPs internal certification process for technical and commercial experts who are responsible for reserves estimation.
We assessed whether the significant changes in proved reserves have been made in compliance with relevant regulations.
We ensured that the updated reserves and resources estimates were included appropriately in consideration of impairment, depreciation, depletion and amortization and decommissioning provisions.
Unauthorized trading activity and the potential impact on revenue We performed testing relating to controls over unauthorized trading activity.
Analytical tools were used to assist us in identifying trades which have the highest risk of unauthorized activity so as to focus our testing on these trades.
We obtained confirmations directly from third parties for a sample of trades.
We verified the fair value of a sample of derivatives using contract and external market prices.
We tested the completeness of the amounts recorded in the financial statements through performing procedures to detect unrecorded liabilities as well as detailed cut off procedures around sales, purchases, trade receivables, and trade payables.
BPs ability to exercise significant influence over Rosneft and the consequent accounting for the interest in Rosneft using the equity method We challenged the evidence available to support BPs continuing conclusion that Rosneft should be accounted using the equity method.
We assessed the impact of sanctions imposed by the US and European Union through discussion with the BP legal team, consideration of EY internal guidance and observation of the interaction between BP and Rosneft.
We also considered the adequacy of the financial and other information provided to BP to allow compliance with its reporting obligations.
We ensured appropriate review was completed by BP on the information reported.
We provided instruction to Rosnefts auditors who reported in accordance with our timetable and instructions.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 90, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Governance and Risk section of the Annual Report relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
John C. Flaherty Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 3 March 2015 This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 93
