STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Report on the financial statements the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: OUR OPINION the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and In our opinion: the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2014 In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash the Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report to identify flows for the year then ended: material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent as adopted by the European Union: material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in for our report.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Materiality financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial of this report.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED the Group financial statements as a whole to be 10.5 million.
This represents approximately 5% of profit before tax, which is considered to The Group financial statements and Company financial statements the be an appropriate benchmark for a profit-oriented entity.
financial statements, which are prepared by Hargreaves Lansdown plc, comprise: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 June 2014: misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 as well as the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated and Company misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: for qualitative reasons.
the Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity for Overview of the scope of the audit the year then ended: and The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 17 legal the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of entities, comprising the four core legal entities representing the asset significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
management, stockbroking, fund management and advisory businesses, and a further 13 legal entities comprising the Groups holding company, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their nominee company, dormant subsidiaries, and trust and trustee companies.
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. type of work that needed to be performed at the legal entities to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES We determined that the four core legal entities required an audit of their We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on complete financial information due to their size and risk characteristics.
Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves Specific audit procedures on certain account balances and transactions obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial were also performed in relation to other legal entities to ensure that we statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial obtained appropriate coverage across all account balances.
This work, statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by together with additional procedures performed at the group level, gave us fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 59 the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and whole.
other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained Areas of particular audit focus audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of procedures or a combination of both.
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future We considered the following areas to be those that required particular events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be the financial statements.
significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 42.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition We understood and evaluated the controls surrounding revenue ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition including the IT control environment.
recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve We used data auditing techniques to test the revenue recognised planned results.
in respect of the four revenue streams.
These procedures used We assessed that this risk was focused on the accuracy of the four transactional and balance data from the underlying pool of clients most significant revenue streams renewal income, management assets to independently recalculate these revenue streams using fees, platform fees and commission on securities transactions.
We rates agreed with external fund groups and Hargreaves Lansdowns identified this as an area of focus due to the high volume low value published fee structures.
nature of transactions, each of which is reliant upon the correct In addition we tested a sample of the rates used back to supporting charging structures and calculations within the system.
contracts, investment prices to an independent source, and holdings to external confirmations.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
the arrangements for staff to escalate concerns, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements, such as the valuation of share based payments, for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries made to identify unusual or irregular items.
IT Control Environment We understood and assessed the overall IT control environment and We focused on the IT control environment as the Group is heavily the controls in place which included controls over access to systems reliant upon the effective and continual operation of its IT platform and data, as well as system changes.
We tailored our audit approach which has been developed in-house.
The IT platform is key to its based on the financial significance of the system and whether there were revenue generation and is also relied upon for many aspects of the automated procedures supported by that system.
In-house development gives rise to a The procedures performed included testing the operating effectiveness greater risk of unauthorised access or alteration to the system.
of controls over appropriate access rights and validating that only appropriate users had the ability to create, modify or delete user accounts for the relevant in-scope applications.
In addition, we tested the operating effectiveness of controls around system development and program changes to establish that changes to the system were appropriately authorised and also developed and implemented properly.
GOING CONCERN concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern.
We have the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we nothing to report having performed our review.
have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
60 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On page 37, ACT 2006 as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial In our opinion: statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with consistent with the financial statements: our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been performing our audit: or properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
out on pages 32 to 40 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: EXCEPTION materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent received with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our of performing our audit: or opinion: is otherwise misleading.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Our responsibilities and those of the directors accounting records and returns.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the preparation of We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance consent in writing.
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP On page 58 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken Bristol as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides 16 September 2014 the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and a The maintenance and integrity of the Hargreaves Lansdown plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 61
