Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited Our response: Our audit procedures with respect to the above Opinions and conclusions judgements included but were not limited to, forming an arising from our audit opinion independent evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, on financial statements the purpose and design of the Company and of the We have audited the Group financial statements the financial documentation supporting the Directors assessment that the statements of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company Company meets the definition of an Investment Entity.
and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 31 March Specifically, we challenged the Directors conclusion that the 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Companys business purpose is to invest for returns solely from Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in capital appreciation and or investment income.
We used our Shareholders Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the knowledge of the Group to challenge the Directors assessment related notes.
In our opinion, the financial statements: as to which entities provided investment related services and so are consolidated within the financial statements.
We have give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at considered the adequacy of the Companys disclosures in respect 31 March 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: of the application of the Investment Entities Amendments and the have been properly prepared in accordance with International consequent restatement of comparative figures see Note 2b as Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European well as the IFRS 12 disclosure requirements see Note 2c.
Union: and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Valuation of unlisted investments 1,495.5 million : Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 69 accounting Our assessment of risks of material misstatement policy and page 78 financial disclosures.
The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional The risk: The Group measures its investments in subsidiaries judgment, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit holding PFI PPP P3 projects at fair value based on discounted strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the cashflow valuations.
The Investment Adviser performs a valuation efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to of the project portfolio.
The Company also engaged an these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial independent third party valuation expert to perform a valuation statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is of the project portfolio.
The Directors consider the valuations not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not performed by the Investment Adviser and the third party express an opinion on these individual risks.
valuation expert and decide on the appropriate valuation to include in the financial statements.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our The Investment Adviser performs the valuations using forecast audit were as follows: cashflows generated by each project over a long-term period and selects key assumptions such as the discount rate and Accounting treatment for subsidiaries arising from the adoption macroeconomic assumptions such as inflation, interest and tax of Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and rates.
The assessment of long-term forecast cashflows and the IAS27 the Investment Entities Amendments.
selection of appropriate assumptions surrounding uncertain Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 69 accounting future events as set out in the key judgements and estimates policy and page 70 financial disclosures.
section of the financial statements are key judgements made by the Directors.
The risk addressed is that changes to the forecast The risk: The Company has applied IFRS 10-12 including the cashflows and the selection of different assumptions may result Investment Entities Amendments for the first time in the year.
The in a materially different valuation for unlisted investments.
directors have concluded that the Company meets the definition of an Investment Entity in IFRS 10 and, as a result, the Company no Our response: Our audit procedures with respect to the valuation longer consolidates its subsidiaries except for those that provide of unlisted investments included but were not limited to, services relating to its investment activities.
Whether the Company communicating directly with the project entities for each of the is an Investment Entity is a key judgement made by the Directors individual investments and meeting the Investment Advisers and has resulted in a significant change to the recognition and asset managers who act as directors on the PFI PPP P3 project measurement of interests in subsidiaries in its financial statements.
companies to identify circumstances which would impact the One of the requirements for a company to meet the definition of an cashflows and the assumptions.
We tested the Investment Investment Entity is that it commits to its investors that its business Advisers controls over the cashflow models used to perform the purpose is to invest for returns solely from capital appreciation valuations of the subsidiaries holding the PFI PPP P3 projects.
The Directors concluded that the fact We challenged adjustments made to the underlying project that the Company generally expects to hold its investments to models by the Investment Adviser as part of the valuation maturity does not preclude the Company from being an Investment exercise.
We also challenged the key assumptions for discount Entity.
The Directors have also made a judgement as to which rates, inflation, interest and tax rates using our own valuation entities in the Group provide investment related services and are specialists and performing benchmarking and sensitivity tests.
consolidated within the financial statements.
The risk addressed is We evaluated the competency of the external valuation expert in whether the Directors have made appropriate judgements in the context of their ability to generate a reliable estimate of the applying the Investment Entities Amendments.
fair value, by assessing their professional qualifications, 62 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 experience and independence from the Group.
We also held Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable assurance discussions with the third party valuation expert and considered of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not whether their findings were consistent with the results of the guaranteed to do so.
Rather we plan the audit to determine the extent audit work we had performed.
We have considered the adequacy of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the of the Groups disclosures in respect of the valuation in probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected accordance with IFRS 13 see Note 4 about the use of estimates misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial and judgments in arriving at the fair value of unlisted statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant investments, including sensitivities and reviewed the disclosure depth of work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and of the Groups investment valuation policies presented in the expenses as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced Annual Report.
members of the audit team, in particular the Responsible Individual, to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting process.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable precision in financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably be misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has to apply judgment the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and in identifying whether a misstatement or omission is material and to adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting do so the auditor identifies a monetary amount as materiality for estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall the financial statements as a whole.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 15 identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of statements and to identify any information that is apparently the Groups gross assets of which it represents 1%, which we materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the consider to be one of the principal considerations used by members knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In addition we applied a materiality of 1 million to interest and dividend income and fund expenses in the income statement as we Matters on which we are required to report by exception believe for these specific items misstatements of lesser amounts than Under International Standards on Auditing [ISAs] UK and Ireland we the 15 million materiality as a whole could reasonably be expected are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired to influence the economic decisions of the members of the Company during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual in respect of these specific items.
report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.75 million, in addition to other audit In particular, we are required to report to you if: misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors For the purposes of the Group audit, the audit of the Companys statement that they consider that the annual report and financial consolidated subsidiaries were all performed by the group audit statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable team based on the materiality levels set out above.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: or Our assessment of materiality has informed our identification of the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address significant risks of material misstatement and the associated audit matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
procedures performed in those areas as detailed above.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Company has not kept proper accounting records: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the purpose of our audit.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 63 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 50 to set out on page 47, the directors are responsible for the preparation 55 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical Standards Scope of report and responsibilities for Auditors.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the Companys members as a body Steven D. Stormonth This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in For and on behalf of accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, KPMG Channel Islands Limited 2008 and, in respect of any further matters on which we have Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to 20 May 2014 them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The maintenance and integrity of the HICL Infrastructure Company Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements or audit report since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
