Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of HSBC Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 335 to 457.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above, our strategy was to increase our audit procedures in areas where we identified a higher risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.
To conduct our risk assessment, we considered the inherent risks facing the Group and the parent company, including those arising from the respective business models, and how the Group controls those risks.
In doing so, we considered a number of factors including: the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: the risk of fraud: the design and implementation of the Groups control environment: and the risk of management override of key controls.
We revisited our risk assessment after testing the operating effectiveness of a number of the Groups key controls including internal controls over financial reporting and specific anti-fraud controls as well as testing the basis of the going concern assumption.
We also considered the inherent need for the directors to make and appropriately disclose judgements when preparing the financial statements.
As a result of this assessment, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were areas where significant judgement was required and were as follows: The risk Our response Impairment of loans and advances Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements in Note 1 k on the Financial Statements, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279 and the disclosures of credit risk within the audited elements of the Risk sections of the Financial Review on pages 111 to 237.
The impairment of loans and advances is Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over estimated by the directors through the application the approval, recording and monitoring of loans and advances, of judgement and use of highly subjective and evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used assumptions.
by the Group in calculating collectively assessed impairments, Due to the significance of loans and advances and assessing the adequacy of impairment allowances for representing 41% of total assets and the related individually assessed loans and advances.
estimation uncertainty, this is considered a key We compared the Groups assumptions for both collective audit risk.
and individual impairment allowances to externally available The portfolios which give rise to the greatest industry, financial and economic data and our own assessments uncertainty are typically those where impairments in relation to key inputs.
As part of this, we critically assessed the are derived from collective models, are unsecured Groups revisions to estimates and assumptions, specifically in or are subject to potential collateral shortfalls.
respect of the inputs to the impairment models in the In 2014, we continued to pay particular attention commercial and global banking portfolios and the consistency of to collective impairment methodologies, focusing judgement applied in the use of economic factors, loss specifically on US mortgages, the commercial and emergence periods and the observation period for historical global banking portfolios, and Brazilian personal default rates.
For a sample of exposures that were subject to an and business loans, either due to their relative size individual impairment assessment, and focusing on those with or the potential impact of changing inputs and the most significant potential impact on the financial assumptions.
We also focused on portfolios that statements, we specifically challenged the Groups assumptions were potentially more sensitive to developing and on the expected future cash flows, including the value of emerging global economic trends.
In addition, we realisable collateral based on our own understanding and also focused on individually significant exposures available market information.
that either continued to be, have become, or were We also assessed whether the financial statement disclosures at risk of being individually impaired.
appropriately reflect the Groups exposure to credit risk, specifically considering those portfolios identified in 2014 as presenting the greatest risk.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 329 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only continued Report The risk Our response Litigation, regulatory actions and customer remediation Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements, and disclosures of provisions and contingent liabilities in Notes 29, 37 and 40 on the Financial Statements and the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279.
The recognition and measurement of provisions Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the and the measurement and disclosure of identification, evaluation and measurement of potential obligations arising from legal and regulatory matters.
contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, regulatory actions and customer remediation For matters identified, we considered whether an obligation exists, together legal and regulatory matters the appropriateness of provisioning and or disclosure based on the require significant judgement.
Due to the facts and circumstances available.
In order to assess the facts and significance of these matters and the difficulty circumstances, we obtained and assessed the relevant regulatory in assessing and measuring the quantum from and litigation documents and also interviewed the Groups internal any resulting obligations, this is considered a and external legal counsel.
We also critically assessed the key audit risk.
assumptions made and key judgements applied and considered In 2014, we paid particular attention to possible alternative outcomes based on our own experience and significant matters that experienced notable knowledge of market information.
developments or that emerged during the Additionally we considered whether the Groups disclosures of the period.
The areas of greatest focus were application of judgement in estimating provisions and contingent customer redress programmes and foreign liabilities adequately reflected the uncertainties associated with exchange matters in the UK, and other tax and legal and regulatory matters.
regulatory matters in France, the US and Switzerland.
The risk Our response Valuation of financial instruments Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of fair values in Notes 12 to 16, 18, 24 and 25 on the Financial Statements, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279 and the disclosures of market risk within the audited elements of the Risk sections of the Financial Review on pages 111 to 237.
The fair value of financial instruments is Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the determined through the application of identification, measurement and management of valuation risk, and valuation techniques which often involve the evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used by the Group in determining fair values.
exercise of judgement by the directors and the use of assumptions and estimates.
For the Groups fair value models, we assessed the appropriateness Due to the significance of financial instruments of the models and inputs.
We compared observable inputs against and the related estimation uncertainty, this is independent sources and externally available market data.
At 31 December For a sample of instruments with significant unobservable valuation 2014, financial assets carried at fair value inputs, and with the assistance of our own valuation specialists, represented 40% of total assets and financial we critically assessed the assumptions and models used or reliabilities carried at fair value represented 25% performed an independent valuation assessment, by reference of total liabilities.
to what we considered to be available alternative methods and Estimation uncertainty is particularly high for sensitivities to key factors.
those instruments where significant valuation We also evaluated the methodology and inputs used by the Group inputs are unobservable i. e. Level 3 in determining its funding fair value adjustment recorded on the instruments.
At 31 December 2014, Level 3 uncollateralised derivatives portfolio and compared that against instruments represented 1.4% of financial current market practice based on our experience of comparable assets carried at fair value and 1.3% of financial institutions.
liabilities carried at fair value.
Additionally, we assessed whether the financial statement In 2014, we have continued to focus on disclosures of fair value risks and sensitivities appropriately reflect developments in derivative fair value the Groups exposure to valuation risk.
methodologies and specifically on the Groups adoption of a funding fair value adjustment for the measurement of uncollateralised derivatives.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 330 The risk Our response Deferred tax assets Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of deferred taxation in Note 8 on the Financial Statements and the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279.
The recognition of deferred tax assets relies on Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the significant application of judgement by the the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets and the directors in respect of assessing the probability assessment of assumptions used in projecting the Groups future and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future taxable profits in relevant jurisdictions.
We also challenged the reversals of existing taxable temporary Groups assumptions and commitment to continue to invest differences and ongoing tax planning strategies.
sufficient capital in the US by evaluating the expected tax planning strategies that will be employed and the availability of capital that Due to the size of the Groups recognised collectively support the realisation of the recognised deferred tax deferred tax assets US$7.4bn and the assets.
associated uncertainty surrounding recoverability, this is considered a key audit We compared key inputs used by the Group to forecast future risk.
profits to externally available data such as economic forecasts and the Groups own historical data and performance and assessed the In 2014, we have continued to focus on the sensitivity of the outcomes to reasonably possible changes in most significant deferred tax assets which arise assumptions.
We also used our own tax specialists to critically in the US, Brazil and Mexico.
We paid particular assess the appropriateness of the future tax planning strategies.
attention to the tax planning strategy in the US, which continues to rely on the capital support Additionally, we assessed whether the Groups disclosures of of the parent company, and to managements the application of judgement in estimating recognised and forecasts of future profitability in Brazil that unrecognised deferred tax asset balances appropriately reflect support the deferred tax asset.
the Groups deferred tax position.
The risk Our response Goodwill impairment Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of goodwill in Note 21 on the Financial Statements and the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279.
Goodwill impairment testing of cash generating Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the units CGUs relies on estimates of value-inGroups process for the recognition and measurement of goodwill use based on estimated future cash flows.
impairment, including the assumptions used.
We also tested the key assumptions forming the Groups value-in-use calculation, including Due to the uncertainty of forecasting and the cash flow projections and discount rates.
discounting future cash flows and the significance of the Groups recognised goodwill We assessed the reasonableness of cash flow projections and US$19.2bn, this is deemed a significant risk.
compared key inputs, such as the discount rates and growth rates, to externally available industry, economic and financial data and Uncertainty is typically highest for those CGUs the Groups own historical data and performance.
With the where headroom between value-in-use and assistance of our own specialists, we critically assessed the carrying value is limited and where the valueassumptions and methodologies used to forecast value-in-use for in-use is most sensitive to estimates of future those CGUs where significant goodwill was found to be sensitive cash flows.
to changes in those assumptions.
On an overall basis, we also In 2014, we focused on CGUs that were most evaluated the aggregate values-in-use determined by the Group sensitive and reliant on future cash flow to its external market capitalisation.
projections and, as a result of recent historical Additionally we considered whether the Groups disclosures of the performance, were expected to have reduced application of judgement in estimating CGU cash flows and the headroom, particularly GPB businesses in sensitivity of the results of those estimates adequately reflect the Europe.
risks associated with goodwill impairment.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 331 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only continued Report The risk Our response Interests in associates Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of interests in associates in Note 20 on the Financial Statements and the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279.
The majority of HSBCs interests in associates Our audit procedures included the assessment of the Groups relate to its 19.03% interest in Bank of methodology and calculation of BoComs value-in-use.
We Communications Co. Limited BoCom, which evaluated the reasonableness of cash flow projections against is listed on the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock BoComs most recent financial performance and considered the exchanges.
appropriateness of key inputs such as long-term growth rates used to extrapolate these cash flows, the discount rate, the risk-weighted Under the equity method of accounting for assets to total assets ratio and the loan impairment charge to gross associates, these interests are initially stated at loans ratio and compared these to available industry, economic and cost, and are adjusted thereafter for the postfinancial data, and to consensus market forecasts.
acquisition change in HSBCs share of the net assets of the associate less any impairment We met with BoComs management to understand current business provisions.
performance and expectations and whether they were properly reflected in the Groups own assumptions.
We also compared the BoComs market value has been below its results of the value-in-use calculations to market available carrying amount for a sustained period, and price earnings multiples for BoCom and other listed banks in therefore its current carrying amount mainland China and assessed the Groups analysis of the difference US$14.6bn continues to rely on the Groups between the market value and the value-in-use of its interest in significant judgement in determining BoComs BoCom.
This assessment included consideration of the valuation recoverable amount based on its value-in-use.
methodologies and assumptions used by other market participants.
The projected future cash flows and discount Additionally, we considered whether the Groups disclosures of the rates used by the Group in determining application of judgement in estimating the recoverable amount and BoComs value-in-use are subject to estimation the sensitivity of the results of those estimates adequately reflect uncertainty and sensitivity.
Therefore, we the risks associated with impairment of interests in associates.
consider this a key audit risk.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at US$930m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude fair value movements on long-term debt attributable to credit spread own credit spread, which we believe to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing financial performance.
Materiality represents 5.0% of Group profit before tax and 5.1% after adjustment to exclude own credit spread.
We report to the Group Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding US$45m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our approach to scoping components was: for some regions, we instructed the regional audit team to conduct and report to us on a full scope regional audit and specified certain components within those regions that should be subject to a full scope audit overseen by the relevant regional audit team: within other regions, we directly instructed component audit teams to conduct and report to us full scope audits.
Accordingly, we instructed or specified full scope audits at 23 components across all five regions as follows: Europe 7 components Asia 8 components Middle East and North Africa 1 component North America 4 components Latin America 3 components These audits covered 82% of total Group operating income: 78% of total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax: and 88% of total Group assets.
The segment disclosures in Note 11 set out the individual significance of each region.
We approved materiality for those full scope audits that we directly instructed, ranging from US$50m to US$750m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team visited locations in Europe, Asia, North America and Latin America and teams from components in each region attended a Group audit planning meeting.
The Group audit team also held regular telephone meetings with the regional audit teams and other component auditors.
In addition, regional audit teams visited locations of key components within their regions.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 332 Our separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board is unmodified As explained in Note 1 a on the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts describing the work of the Group Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Group Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on pages 290 and 291, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 328, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at http: www.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at http: www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Guy Bainbridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 23 February 2015 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 333 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
