Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, British American Tobacco p. l. c. s Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited British American Tobacco p. l. c. s financial statements comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the Notes on the Accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes on the Accounts.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union.
Our audit approach Materiality Overall Group materiality is 260 million 2013: 290 million.
Audit Scope Out of over 400 reporting units, we identified 51 which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed on a further 65 reporting units, one of which represents the results of an associate.
Together these accounted for 79% of Group reported profit before taxation.
Areas of Focus Corporate tax exposures, including the uncertain tax positions in Brazil and South Africa.
Litigation principally in relation to claims and class actions and the recent settlement in respect of Flintkote and the Funding Agreement reached in respect of Fox River.
Restructuring and integration costs arising from the Groups continued implementation of its revised operating model.
Defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the following table.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Each of the areas of focus below is referred to in the Audit and accountability section of the Directors Report on page 58 and in the Accounting Policies on pages 127 to 132.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
116 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Corporate Tax Exposures Refer also to notes 6 and 30.
We held a programme of meetings with the Groups Corporate tax team The Group operates in many different markets and is therefore subject to and local management to assess the Groups process for identifying varying tax regimes across the world.
uncertain tax positions potentially requiring provisions, and the related accounting policy of provisioning for tax exposures.
Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, management is required to apply judgement when determining We gained an understanding of the current status of tax investigations whether, and how much, to provide in respect of material tax and litigation, and monitored changes in circumstance in ongoing assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of disputes through examining recent rulings and correspondence with jurisdictions.
These principally relate to Brazil, in respect of a reassessment of the We used our specialist tax knowledge and obtained written responses profits of overseas subsidiaries to corporate income tax and social from the Groups external advisers, containing their views on material contribution tax and South Africa relating to the treatment of debt tax exposures and any related litigation.
These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements position We focused on this area due to the significant quantum of gross risk and in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our assessment that the exposure across the Group, and the inherent complexity and judgement disclosures and provisions recorded in the financial statements, including in estimating the amount of provision required.
whether any provisions sufficiently addressed probable penalties and interest, were appropriate and reflected the latest developments.
Litigation Refer also to notes 22 and 30.
We understood, evaluated and tested managements controls in respect There are claims and class actions which could have a significant impact of litigation, both tobacco and non-tobacco related, at the Group, on the results of the Group if the potential exposures were to materialise.
Management applies significant judgement when determining whether, We discussed the nature and status of exposures with in-house and and how much, to provide for matters of litigation.
external legal counsel and obtained letters from the Groups external We focused on this area due to the number and magnitude of potential legal counsel which corroborated managements position for significant exposures across the Group, and the inherent complexity and litigation matters.
judgement in whether to provide for or disclose certain exposures.
We also read publicly available information containing recent updates Specific consideration was given to the Fox River and Flintkote matters in inrespect of court hearings and judgements impacting the Group which light of the Fox River Funding Agreement and Flintkote settlement.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the financial statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, and the completeness of disclosures in respect of contingent liabilities in light ofthe procedures above.
Specifically for the Flintkote and Fox River matters, we corroborated managements position with the terms of the Flintkote Settlement Agreement and the Fox River Funding Agreement.
We checked that the classification of the related charges and releases was consistent with the Groups accounting policy on adjusting items.
Restructuring and Integration Costs Refer also to note 3.
We challenged the appropriateness of the Groups policies in respect of During the year the Group has continued with the implementation of project costs, including the nature of costs to be capitalised, and the itsrevised Operating Model and single IT operating system in a number timing of commencing depreciation.
We did this by confirming that the ofmarkets.
project costs eligible for capitalisation set out within the policies were directly attributable to the development of the software assets, including Accounting judgement is required regarding whether costs incurred the global single instance of SAP, associated with the Groups new meet the criteria to be capitalised as part of the global SAP system within operating model.
intangible assets, or whether they should be expensed immediately.
We tested a sample of costs incurred during the period in order to test In addition, judgement is also required when determining whether costs the appropriateness of 115million costs capitalised versus 176million are directly attributable to the programme, and hence presented within that were expensed.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the adjusting items.
classification of the related costs as adjusting items and checked that they were consistent with the Groups accounting policy set out on page131.
117 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities Refer also to note 12.
We used our specialist actuarial knowledge to obtain evidence that the The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net post-retirement assumptions used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including liabilities of 741million and net post-retirement assets of 40million, salary increases and mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with which are significant in the context of the overall Balance Sheet of relevant national and industry benchmarks.
We also verified that the discount and inflation rates used in the The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement and technical valuation of the pension liabilities were consistent with our internally expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a number developed benchmarks, and, where available to us, with other ofthe key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount companies reporting as at 31 December 2014. rates and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of For pension plan assets, we obtained third-party confirmations of theliability.
The Group uses external actuaries to assist in assessing ownership and valuations of pension assets.
There is also some judgement in the measurement of fair value of certain pension assets.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments Refer also to note 9.
We evaluated the future cash flow forecasts and the process by which The goodwill balance of 9.8billion, which principally relates to the they were drawn up, including confirming the accuracy and the acquisitions of Rothmans, Imperial Tobacco Canada, ETI Italy, ST underlying calculations and checking the forecasts were consistent with Scandinavia and Indonesia, is supported by an annual impairment the latest Board approved budgets.
No impairment charge has been recorded by management We obtained corroborating evidence regarding the carrying value of against these balances in the current financial year.
The risk is that the goodwill, and the related disclosures, through challenging: goodwill balance may be overstated and that an impairment charge may be required.
The value-in-use assessment for these assets involves the key business drivers of the cash flow forecasts supporting their subjective judgements about future business performance.
impairment assessment, including tobacco pricing, raw material costs and market share by examining reported results for each CGU and Certain assumptions made by management in the impairment review third-party data: are key judgements, including cash flows, the overall long-term growth key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts by rates and discount rates used.
comparing them to historical results, and economic forecasts: and As described in note 9, management concluded that even if discounted the discount rates by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and cash flows for Cash Generating Units CGUs should fall by 10%, or the country risk adjustments.
discount rate was increased at a post-tax rate of 1%, there would be no We examined the results of managements sensitivity analysis around the impairment to goodwill.
long-term growth rates and discount rates to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that would be required for the goodwill in individual CGUs to be impaired.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is primarily structured across four geographic regions, being Asia-Pacific: Americas: Western Europe: and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 400 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and sales offices often legal entities, centralised functions, and supply chain entities.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, component auditors from PwC network firms and component auditors from other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 51 which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Audits of these reporting units were performed using materiality levels lower than the materiality level for the Group as a whole, ranging from 15 million to 60 million, and established by reference to the size of, and risks associated with, the business concerned.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 65 reporting units, one of which represents the results of an associate.
We performed work centrally in the areas of IT general controls, taxation, pensions, earnings per share and treasury-related procedures.
Our Group engagement teams involvement included various site visits and component auditor working paper reviews across each of the Groups four regions, together with conference calls with the component audit teams and attendance at certain component audit clearance meetings.
118 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 260 million 2013: 290 million.
How we determined it We used Group reported profit before taxation 4,848 million and allowed for the one-off impact of the Flintkote settlement 374 million.
Overall materiality represents approximately 5% of Group reported profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have allowed for the Flintkote charge as it is non-recurring and represents the settlement of a historical item that does not impact continuing business performance.
Misstatements to be reported We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our to the Audit Committee audit above 15 million 2013: 15 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading: or the statement given by the Directors on page 115, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to arising from this responsibility.
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report on page 58, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
119 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Responsibility of Directors set out on page 115, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 February 2015 120 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
