Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 89 Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc Report on the financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Our opinion Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining In our opinion: evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Companys cash flows includes an assessment of: for the year then ended: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adequately disclosed: adopted by the European Union: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in directors: and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied the overall presentation of the financial statements.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 the Annual Report requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the this report.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for What we have audited our report.
The Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by ICAP plc, comprise: Overview of our audit approach the consolidated and Company balance sheet as at 31 March 2014: Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the comprehensive income for the year then ended: effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity and as a whole.
statements of cash flows for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the the basis of preparation, and Group financial statements as a whole to be 13.6 million, which was 5% of trading profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of items.
We based materiality on profit before tax, acquisition and disposal significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The removal of these items mitigates undue The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation volatility in determining our materiality comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, Although our audit was designed to identify material misstatements, we as regards the Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them the Companies Act 2006. uncorrected misstatements identified above 500,000, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group reports its operating results and financial position along three business lines, being Global Broking, Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these business lines, which comprise 219 separate legal entities located in 32 countries, and the Groups centralised functions.
90 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc continued In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the Areas of particular audit focus type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units being a In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of legal entity in a business unit or a centralised function by us, as the Group subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had in the financial statements.
been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements Through our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling as a whole.
and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to We identified 16 reporting units across the Global Broking and Electronic provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit Markets business lines centralised functions that, in our view, required an evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size, or their procedures or a combination of both.
As part of our planning procedures, the Group We considered the following areas to be those that required particular engagement team visited the UK and US component teams the two most focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of significant countries in the Group.
Specific audit procedures on certain focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the balances and transactions were performed at a further 12 reporting units, Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered which included the two largest entities in the Post Trade Risk and to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out Information segment, located in Sweden and Singapore.
This, together with on page 61. additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 91 Areas of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We tested the directors future cash flow forecasts, by comparing them to We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance, and the latest board approved budgets and by comparing the current year because the directors assessment of the carrying value of the Groups cash results with the equivalent figures included in the prior year forecast to test generating units CGUs involves judgements about the future results of historical budgeting accuracy.
the business and the discount rate applied to the future cash flow forecasts.
We challenged the directors key assumptions for discount and The directors booked an impairment charge of 11 million.
We needed long-term growth rates by comparing rates used to past results and to obtain evidence for the remaining 830 million of goodwill in this part of available external data.
We also performed sensitivity analysis over the key the business.
assumptions of the cash flow forecast.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be Refer also to note 14 to the financial statements.
required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in the key assumptions arising.
We paid particular attention to the Global Broking businesses due to their performance being impacted by cyclical factors including low interest rate and foreign exchange volatility.
Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over We focused on the timing of the recognition and presentation in the the accuracy and timing of commissions and fees recognised in the financial income statement of: statements.
We tested the reconciliations between the revenue systems commissions from the Groups Global Broking business: used by the Group and its financial ledgers and journal entries posted to brokerage or access fees from its Electronic Markets business: and revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
fees from the provision of Post Trade Risk and Information.
We also tested the timing of revenue recognition, checking the necessary These revenue streams are dependent on the fulfilment of contractual contractual obligations had been fulfilled.
obligations which may involve subjective estimation with regard to stage We tested revenue recognised by agreeing to cash received or account completion.
Refer to note 1 to the financial statements.
We also tested the recoverability of the year end In addition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue account receivables.
recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries to determine the rationale for manual adjustments.
92 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc continued Going Concern Directors remuneration Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our set out on page 74, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have having performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Companys financial statements Corporate governance statement using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our nothing to report having performed our review.
audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis On page 74 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, is appropriate.
the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
On page 61, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in Opinions on matters prescribed by the relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under Companies Act 2006 ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: In our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: the information given in the strategic report and the governance and or directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been us to the Audit Committee.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to Other information in the Annual Report report by exception Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Adequacy of accounting records and information and information in the Annual Report is: explanations received materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our statements: or opinion: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of our audit: or performing our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or is otherwise misleading.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 93 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities for the Annual Report set out on page 74, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Christopher Rowland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 14 May 2014 94 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014
