96 International Personal Finance plc International Personal Finance plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 96 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 to the members of International Personal Finance plc to the members of International Personal Finance plc Opinion on Financial Statements of International Personal Finance plc Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement within the Financial Review on page 48 that the Group is a the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the going concern.
We confirm that: Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in appropriate: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly concern.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be Companies Act 2006: and predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those The Financial Statements comprise the consolidated income that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of statement, statements of comprehensive income, balance sheets, resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement statements of changes in equity, cash flow statements, accounting team.
policies and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of receivables Determining impairment provisions against customer receivables is We tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the provisioning judgemental, requiring an estimate to be made of the likely loss within process, including using IT specialists within the audit team to test the the lending portfolios.
key IT controls over the systems in which the source customer receivable data is maintained.
We also tested the extraction of source data from the core lending systems to identify whether the data was We have identified the key risk as being the estimation of future accurate and complete.
customer default rates for customers in arrears, and hence expected future cash flows for each portfolio.
In particular, there is a risk that the We also evaluated the appropriateness of managements key management information used to make this judgement is either assumptions used in the impairment calculations for customer incomplete or inaccurate, that the debt receivables are incorrectly receivables, including the estimation of customer default rates and categorised in terms of their arrears status, or that the cash expected future cash flows for each portfolio.
This involved assessing forecasting curves used do not appropriately predict actual future managements tests of historical forecasting accuracy, and recash flows.
performing a sample of these tests using independent extracts of customer receivable collections data.
We also challenged the appropriateness of historical data used to predict future collections performance by reference to internal and external factors affecting the business.
In addition, we recalculated a sample of portfolio carrying values in accordance with the approved impairment provisioning policy, tested the accuracy of the arrears status of loan receivables, and assessed the implications of the above work on the accuracy and predictive nature of the cash forecasting curves.
Financial Statements 97 97 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition and calculation of the effective interest rate The recognition of revenue on loans using an effective interest rate We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to method requires significant judgement by management to determine revenue recognition, and the mechanical accuracy of the models key assumptions, in particular the expected life of each loan and used to calculate the effective interest rates.
This involved the related cash flows.
recalculation of a sample of product and cohort effective interest rates based upon an extract of source data from the core lending These cash flows include interest charges, home collection charges, system.
We also tested the completeness and accuracy of cash flow and early settlement rebates.
We have identified the key risks to be information included within the models.
the appropriateness of management judgements used in the effective interest rate calculation, in particular the average lives used, In addition we assessed the appropriateness of managements key and the accuracy and completeness of source data used in the assumptions used to calculate the effective interest rate by reference calculation.
to the impact of recently observable early redemption behaviour on the expected lives of loan receivables.
This focused on challenging average lives used in the calculation through comparing these against historical customer behaviour, and by performing analytical procedures to assess the sensitivity of changing the average lives.
Deferred tax accounting The recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets is Utilising tax specialists within the audit team we tested the recognition judgemental as it is partly reliant upon the underlying profit forecasts and measurement of the deferred tax asset.
This involved confirming of the Group.
the nature of the timing differences giving rise to the assets and that the profit forecasts used to justify the recognition of the assets were consistent with the Board-approved underlying profit forecasts of the Group, and challenging the basis of these forecasts.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions and regulatory matters As a result of enhanced supervisory powers for the local regulators We considered the completeness of any taxation or regulatory and taxation authorities, and an increased focus upon product provisions required by reference to internal and publically available design and matters relating to the fair treatment of customers, there is external information, and challenged the appropriateness of an increased risk in relation to the completeness of provisions against managements key assumptions.
taxation or regulatory exposures in the various jurisdictions in which This work included considering recent regulatory and tax authority the Group operates.
announcements, reviewing the Groups complaints logs, reviewing In particular, significant judgement is required in relation to the level of correspondence with local regulators and tax authorities to identify provisions required against taxation exposures, and whether any any potential areas where provisions could arise, and reviewing any provisions are required for customer remediation.
In addition, we reviewed the key regulatory and taxation risks identified by management, met with the Group legal department and relevant management across the Group to evaluate any identified exposures, and reviewed relevant Board minutes to assess the completeness of relevant provisions in place.
This work involved the utilisation of taxation and regulatory expertise within the audit teams in the various countries in which the Group operates.
Last year our report included a risk which is not included in our report Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the this year: hedge accounting, which we do not deem significant in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to current year on the basis of the materiality and complexity of the express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion arrangements entered into.
on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the individual matters.
significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 49.
98 International Personal Finance plc International Personal Finance plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 98 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 continued continued Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial In our opinion: Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 2006: and evaluating the results of our work.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.3 million 2013: 5.0 Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are million, which is 5% 2013: 5% of normalised pre-tax profit, and 1.7% prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised by adjusting for the 23.3 million exceptional loss relating to the refinancing of the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Eurobond and bank facilities.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1 million 2013: 0.1 our opinion: million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, we have not received all the information and explanations we warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit require for our audit: or and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been An overview of the scope of our audit received from branches not visited by us: or Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and with the accounting records and returns.
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
the audit work at six locations, all of which were subject to a full audit.
Directors remuneration Together with the Group functions, which were also subject to a full Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our audit, these six locations represent the principal business units within opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been the Groups reportable segments and account for 99.2% of the made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Groups net assets, 99.7% of the Groups revenue, 100.0% of the profit is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have before tax generated by the Groups individual components and nothing to report arising from these matters.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of Corporate Governance Statement material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the six Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance from 0.4 million to 2.9 million 2013: 0.5 million to 3.5 million.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual financial information of the remaining components not subject to Report is: audit.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned Statements: or visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of least once every three years and the most significant of them at least performing our audit: or once every two years.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit partner and team in otherwise misleading.
our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Financial Statements 99 99 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stephen Williams FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Leeds, United Kingdom 25 February 2015
