Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Independent auditors report to the members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as Opinion on the financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs Group plc as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated and Parent Company financial In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc: IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2014 and of their profit for the Going Concern year then ended: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with International statement on page 80 that the Group is a going concern.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We confirm that European Union: and we have not identified material uncertainties related to events have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as regards ability to continue as a going concern: and the consolidated financial statements.
we have concluded the Directors use of the going concern basis The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements to and company income statements, the consolidated and company be appropriate.
statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity, as a going concern.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks significant to our audit There has been no significant change in the Groups operations nor in our assessment of materiality, therefore the assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team, are the same risks as in the prior year: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition The allocation of retail subscription revenue to each element of a bundled We evaluated managements revenue recognition policy and transaction requires judgement, as described in the Groups critical assessment in respect of accounting for bundled transactions accounting policies and the use of judgement on page 95. against relevant accounting standards and guidance, and tested the implementation of the policy.
The risk is that inappropriate allocations could lead to non-compliance with accounting standards and inappropriate acceleration or deferral Our procedures included understanding and testing the operating of revenue principally for new customers.
effectiveness of controls in respect of the Groups billing, viewing and customer relationship management systems and the reconciliation processes between these systems and with the general ledger accounting system.
We also performed substantive analytical procedures over retail subscription revenue streams.
82 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk General entertainment programming Determining the timing and amount of the recognition of general We examined the amortisation method for general entertainment entertainment programming expense requires judgement as set out in the programming inventory, taking into account the differing genres Groups critical accounting policies and the use of judgement on page 96. of programmes, viewing profiles and industry benchmarks.
Our procedures included: The risk identified is that the policy selected and applied by management to expense general entertainment programming does not recognise the Benchmarking managements policy against industry practice cost of inventory in line with the expected value from each broadcast.
Testing the design and implementation of controls over the addition and amortisation of general entertainment programming Comparing amortisation profiles against viewing trends from independent source data Performing sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of selecting alternative amortisation profiles Considering the impact the impact of entertainment programming on brand value, customer acquisition and churn: and Evaluating the results of our analysis on both a programme genre and channel basis Capital expenditure The assessment and timing of whether assets meet the capitalisation We tested operating effectiveness of controls in respect of the criteria set out in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 capitalisation of assets and examined carrying values for impairment.
Intangible Assets requires judgement, as well as the selection of We tested all material and a sample of other capital expenditure appropriate useful economic lives, as set out in the Groups critical projects and examined managements assessment as to whether the accounting policies and the use of judgement on page 95.
In addition, project spend met the recognition criteria set forth in IAS 16 Property, determining whether there is any indication of impairment of the Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Our procedures carrying value of assets also requires judgement.
included understanding the business case for each project, challenging any core assumptions or estimates, verifying capital project As capital expenditure represents a material cost for the group, there authorisation, tracing project costs to third-party evidence and is a risk that expenditure on intangible and tangible non-current assets assessing the useful economic life attributed to the asset.
is inappropriately capitalised against relevant accounting guidance and that assets are not recoverable at their carrying value.
In addition, we considered whether any indicators of impairment were present by understanding the business rationale for each project and performing independent reviews for indicators of impairment, as well as testing managements controls to identify impairment of assets.
We reported to the Audit Committee that our audit work on these risks was concluded satisfactorily and their own consideration of these risks is set out on page 54.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, within the context of our assessment of materiality as described below, and not to express an opinion on individual audit risks, individual items or disclosures in the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the key risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 83 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report continued Our assessment of materiality Matters on which we are required to report by exception We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or in our opinion influenced.
We use materiality in both planning the scope of our we have not received all the information and explanations we audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
require for our audit: or We determined materiality for the Group to be 50 million 2013: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 50 million, which is approximately 4% 2013: 4% of adjusted pre-tax Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received profit, 5% 2013: 5% of equity and 5% 2013: 4% of statutory profit from branches not visited by us: or before taxation.
the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to with the accounting records and returns.
the Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5 million 2013: 2.5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that in our We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report Directors remuneration to the Audit Committee any significant disclosure matters that we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our identify when assessing the overall presentation of the financial opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been statements.
We confirmed to the Audit Committee that we had made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited no significant disclosure matters to report.
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
An overview of the scope of our audit Corporate Governance Statement Our audit scope focused on the Groups UK and Ireland operations, Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 30 June the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys 2014.
Our audit scope encompasses all principal business units compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance of the Group and substantially all of the Groups assets, revenue Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
All audit work was performed by the group audit team.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors financial statements: or Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited performing our audit: or has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
84 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Responsibility of Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 81 the Directors are responsible for the adequacy of the accounting records, the preparation of the financial statements from those records and for being satisfied that the financial statements give a true and fair view.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We confirm that, in our professional judgement, we are independent within the meaning of those standards and our objectivity is not compromised.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
William Touche Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 25 July 2014 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 85
