Financial statements Independent auditors report to members of Investec plc United Kingdom Accounting Standards materially incorrect based on, or materially Opinion on United Kingdom Generally Accepted inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired fi nancialstatements AccountingPractice.
by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent This report is made solely to the companys In our opinion: material misstatements or inconsistencies members, as a body, in accordance with we consider the implications for our report.
The combined consolidated fi financial Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act statements give a true and fair view 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken of the state of the groups affairs at so that we might state to the companys Our assessment of risks 31March 2014 and of its profi t for the members those matters we are required year then ended to state to them in an auditors report and of material misstatement for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent The group annual fi financial statements We identifi ed the following risks that have permitted by law, we do not accept or have been appropriately prepared in had the greatest effect on the overall audit assume responsibility to anyone other than accordance with IFRSs as adopted by strategy: on the allocation of resources on the company and the companys members the European Union the audit: and on directing the efforts of the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, engagement team: or for the opinions we have formed.
The parent company annual fi financial statements have been properly prepared Monitoring of credit quality and the in accordance with United Kingdom appropriateness of the allowance for Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Respective credit losses responsibilities of The annual fi financial statements have Impairment assessments for goodwill been prepared in accordance with the directors and auditor and intangibles requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Risk of inappropriate revenue As explained more fully in the Directors recognition valuation of fi financial Responsibility Statement set out on instruments, unlisted investments and page4, the directors are responsible for the What we have audited embedded derivatives including the preparation of the fi financial statements and impact of implementation of IFRS 13 for being satisfi ed that they give a true and We have audited the fi financial statements fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and ofInvestec plc for the year ended Quality of fi financial reporting express an opinion on the group annual 31 March 2014, which comprise: inaccurate or improper accounting fi financial statements in accordance with and fi financial reporting of large or applicable law and International Standards The combined consolidated income complex transactions and the impact of on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those statement implementation of IFRS 10, 11 and 12 standards require us to comply with the The combined consolidated statement Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards IT security and change controls.
The combined consolidated Our application of balancesheet Scope of the audit of the materiality The combined consolidated statement fi financial statements ofcash fl ows We apply the concept of materiality in both An audit involves obtaining evidence about planning and performing the audit, and in The combined consolidated statement the amounts and disclosures in the fi financial evaluating the effect of misstatements on ofchanges in equity statements suffi cient to give reasonable our audit and on the fi financial statements.
The group accounting policies and assurance that the fi financial statements are For the purposes of determining whether 01 the related notes set out on free from material misstatement, whether the fi financial statements are free from pages 24 to 126 caused by fraud or error.
Thisincludes an material misstatement, we defi ne materiality assessment of: whether the accounting as the magnitude of misstatement that The parent company balance sheet policies are appropriate to the Investecplc makes it probable that the economic combined consolidated and separate decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable The parent company accounting policies parent companys circumstances andhave person, relying on the fi financial statements, and related notes set out on been consistently applied and adequately pages 128 and 129. would be changed or infl uenced.
disclosed: the reasonableness of signifi cant The fi financial reporting framework that accounting estimates made by the When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected has been applied in their preparation is directors: and the overall presentation of the applicable law and International Financial fi financial statements.
In addition, we read all misstatements that we judged would be Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the fi financial and non-fi financial information material for the fi financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for by the European Union.
The fi financial in the integrated annual report to identify reporting framework that has been applied material inconsistencies with the audited the group to be 22.0 million, which is in the preparation of the parent company annual fi financial statements and to identify approximately 5% of adjusted operating fi financial statements is applicable law and any information that is apparently profi t before tax.
We use adjusted profi t 12 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report to members of Investec plc continued before tax to exclude the effect of nonunits within the group and account for assumptions, we back tested the recurring items i. e. impairment of goodwill, 96% of the groups total assets and 94% historic performance of the models non-operational costs arising from the of the groups adjusted operating profi t to ensure all relevant risks and drivers acquisition of a subsidiary and costs arising before goodwill, intangibles and tax.
Of were refl ected in the calculations or from integration of acquired subsidiaries these, 23 were subject to a full scope audit, whether model overlays were required.
This provided a whilst the remaining one was subject to a In specifi c cases such as the Irish basis for determining the nature, timing specifi c scope audit where the extent of portfolios, where observability of key and extent of risk assessment procedures, audit work was based on our assessment model inputs is poor, we reviewed identifying and assessing the risk of of the risks of material misstatement and managements benchmarking analysis of the materiality of the groups business of its provisioning levels compared material misstatement and determining the nature, timings and extent of further operations at that location.
They were also to local market participant banks selected to provide an appropriate basis and performed our own independent audit procedures.
for undertaking audit work to address the assessments.
On the basis of our risk assessments, risks of material misstatement identifi ed Loan exposures in the Private and together with our assessment of the groups above.
For the remaining 15 out-of-scope overall control environment, our judgement Corporate and Institutional Bank are components, which account for 4% of the relatively large and display unique was that overall performance materiality groups total assets and 6% of the groups i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in characteristics.
Management assess adjusted operating profi t before goodwill, these loans for impairment provisioning an individual account or balance for intangibles and tax, we primarily performed on an individual basis.
In these cases the group should be 50% of materiality, analytical procedures to confi rm there were we reviewed an extensive sample namely 11.0 million.
Our objective in no signifi cant risks of material misstatement of such exposures to understand adopting this approach was to ensure that in the group annual fi financial statements.
latest developments which infl uence total uncorrected and undetected audit The group audit team continued to follow performance and recoverability differences do not exceed our materiality for and critically assessed the basis of the fi financial statements as a whole.
a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior determining any impairment provisions We agreed with the audit committee that held.
This is an inherently judgemental Statutory Auditor visits or participates in we would report to the committee all audit meetings at each of the key locations where process and particularly important differences in excess of 1.1 million, as well where management are pursuing the group audit scope was focused at least as differences below that threshold that, once every year.
In addition to the location bespoke workout strategies in the in our view, warranted reporting on legacy portfolios in Private Bank.
We visit, the group audit team reviewed key qualitative grounds.
working papers supporting conclusions reviewed and challenged assumptions around future cash fl ow projections and on signifi cant risk areas and participated in Certain disclosures required by the fi financial the component teams planning including the valuation of collateral held.
Where reporting framework have been presented workout strategies require additional the component teams discussion of fraud in the risk report in volume two of the anderror.
funding to execute we obtained integrated annual report, rather than in the representations from management as notes to the annual fi financial statements Our principal responses to the risks to their intent and ability to make such and have been identifi ed as audited.
identifi ed above included the following: funds available.
The monitoring of credit quality and the 2.
The impairment assessments for appropriateness of the allowance for An overview of the goodwill and intangibles: credit losses: scope of our audit We examined managements We documented and tested the methodology and models for assessing An audit involves obtaining evidence about process and controls for assessing the valuation of signifi cant goodwill the amounts and disclosures in the fi financial and booking loans and receivables and intangible asset balances.
In statements suffi cient to give reasonable impairment provisions, including the particular, we critically assessed the 01 assurance that the fi financial statements are over-arching governance, review and forecasts of the cash fl ows for the free from material misstatement, whether approval procedures.
In particular, we respective cash-generating units and caused by fraud or error.
This includes an tested loan exposures on a sample the appropriateness of other key assessment of whether the accounting basis to ensure all loans which had assumptions such as discount rates.
policies are appropriate to the groups suffered an incurred loss event We also performed sensitivity analyses circumstances and have been consistently had been included in the specifi c by stressing key assumptions in the applied and adequately disclosed, the provisioning process.
models to assess the level of headroom reasonableness of signifi cant accounting in place based on reasonably expected Certain portfolios in the Private estimates made by the directors and movements in such assumptions.
Banking and Kensington businesses the overall presentation of the fi financial are subject to collective provisioning 3.
Risk of inappropriate revenue statements.
In these portfolios, we recognition valuation of fi financial Following our assessment of the risk of critically assessed the appropriateness instruments, unlisted investments and material misstatement to the group annual of the methodologies underlying embedded derivatives including the fi financial statements, our audit scope the provisioning models and the impact of implementation of IFRS 13: focused on selecting 24 components assumptions and data input into such which represent the principal business models.
In examining the models and Investec integrated annual report 2014 13 Financial statements Independent auditors report to members of Investec plc continued We tested the design and operating returns from its relationship with the In particular, we are required to effectiveness of controls for the investee and had the ability to affect consider whether we have identifi ed any valuation of fi financial instruments, those returns through its power over inconsistencies between our knowledge unlisted investments and embedded acquired during the audit and the directors the investee.
We performed a detailed statement that they consider the integrated 5.
IT security and change controls: examination of managements valuation annual report is fair, balanced and methodologies and assessed the understandable and whether the integrated As part of our audit procedures we appropriateness and consistency of annual report appropriately discloses those tested on IT security and change the model inputs and key assumptions.
matters that we communicated to the audit controls due to the groups heavy Where such inputs and assumptions committee which we consider should have reliance on IT systems and embedded were not observable in the market been disclosed.
application controls, and changes we engaged our valuation experts expected during the year, particularly Under the Companies Act 2006 we are to critically assess whether they fell from the One Bank initiative and required to report to you if, in our opinion: within an acceptable range based on implementation of new automated relevant knowledge and experience of Certain disclosures of directors tools to support IT access control.
remuneration specifi ed by law are not Weengaged the IT audit specialists made, or The adoption of IFRS 13 has not on our audit team to perform suffi cient seen a signifi cant change in the way audit procedures to enable us to place We have not received all the information management fair values fi financial reliance on the IT applications and and explanations we require for our instruments, but the additional relevant controls identifi ed as having audit.
guidance has resulted in changes to a material impact on the fi financial disclosures regarding the fair value Under the Listing Rules we are required to reporting process.
We assessed managements review: impact analysis of IFRS 13 and The directors statement, set out on reviewed the fi financial statement Opinion on other matter page 8, in relation to going concern, and disclosures as well as performing an assessment of the classifi cation of prescribed by the The disclosures made in the Corporate fi financial instruments between levels 2 Governance report relating to the Companies Act 2006 and 3 as required by the standard.
companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate In our opinion, the information given in 4.
The quality of fi financial reporting Governance Code specifi ed for the Investec strategic report incorporating inaccurate or improper accounting ourreview.
and fi financial reporting of large or governance, sustainability and the complex transactions and the impact of remuneration report, and the Directors implementation of IFRS 10, 11 and 12: report for the fi financial year for which the group annual fi financial statements are We have examined a number of Angus Grant prepared is consistent with the combined new and legacy large or complex Senior Statutory Auditor consolidated annual fi financial statements.
transactions such as the Investec for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Asset Management minority sale to Statutory Auditor management during the year and we Matters on which we separately examined managements London 11 June 2014 assessment for not classifying the are required to report assets and liabilities of Investec Bank by exception Australia Limited and Kensington Group plc as held for sale at yearend.
Notes: We have nothing to report in respect of the 01 In addition to these transactions, we following: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the have examined managements impact Investec website is the responsibility Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are analysis of IFRS 10, 11 and 12 and of the directors: the work carried required to report to you if, in our opinion, reviewed compliance was met with out by the auditors does not involve information in the integrated annual report is: the principles of these new accounting consideration of these matters and, standards.
We performed a thorough accordingly, the auditors accept no Materially inconsistent with the review of the recognition, measurement responsibility for any changes that information in the audited fi financial and disclosure requirements of each may have occurred to the fi financial statements, or standard and considered specifi cally statements since they were initially the completeness of managements Apparently materially incorrect based presented on the website.
We performed a detailed on, or materially inconsistent with, our assessment of complex transactions 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom knowledge of the group acquired in the and challenged managements governing the preparation and course of performing our audit, or judgements where necessary to dissemination of fi financial statements determine whether the group was may differ from legislation in other Is otherwise misleading.
exposed to, or had rights to, variable jurisdictions.
14 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report to members of Investec Limited We have audited the accompanying group An audit involves performing procedures to Other reports required annual fi financial statements of Investec obtain audit evidence about the amounts by the Companies Act Limited, which comprise the Directors and disclosures in the consolidated report, the combined consolidated balance and separate fi financial statements.
As part of our audit of the consolidated and sheet at 31 March 2014, the combined The procedures selected depend on separate fi financial statements for the year consolidated income statement, the the auditors judgement, including the ended 31 March 2014, we have read the combined consolidated statement of assessment of the risks of material audit committees report and the company comprehensive income, the combined misstatement of the consolidated and secretarys certifi cate for the purpose consolidated statement of changes in separate fi financial statements, whether of identifying whether there are material equity and combined consolidated cash due to fraud or error.
In making those inconsistencies between this report and the fl ow statement for the year then ended, a risk assessments, the auditor considers audited fi financial statements.
These reports summary of signifi cant accounting policies internal control relevant to the entitys are the responsibility of the respective and other explanatory notes as set out on preparation and fair presentation of the preparers.
Based on reading these pages 24 to 126 within volume three, the fi financial statements in order to design reports we have not identifi ed material separate Investec Limited parent company audit procedures that are appropriate inconsistencies between these reports and accounts, which comprise the balance in the circumstances, but not for the the audited fi financial statements.
However, sheet at 31 March 2014, the income purpose of expressing an opinion on we have not audited these reports and statement and statement of comprehensive the effectiveness of the entitys internal accordingly do not express an opinion income, the statement of changes in equity control.
An audit also includes evaluating onthese reports.
and the cash fl ow statement for the year the appropriateness of accounting policies then ended, a summary of signifi cant used and the reasonableness of accounting accounting policies and other explanatory estimates made by management, as well notes as set out on pages 130 to 134 as evaluating the overall presentation within volume three, and the information in of the consolidated and separate Ernst & Young Inc. the risk management section within volume fi nancialstatements.
Registered Auditor two and the Remuneration report within We believe that the audit evidence we have volume one that is marked audited.
Per Ernest van Rooyen obtained is suffi cient and appropriate to Chartered Accountant SA provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Registered Auditor Director Directors responsibility for the fi financial 102 Rivonia Road Opinion Sandton statements In our opinion, these consolidated and Private Bag X14 separate fi financial statements present Sandton 2146 The companys directors are responsible fairly, in all material respects, the Johannesburg for the preparation and fair presentation consolidated and separate balance sheets of the consolidated and separate fi financial 11 June 2014 of Investec Limited at 31 March 2014, statements in accordance with International and its consolidated and separate income Financial Reporting Standards and the statements, consolidated and separate requirements of the Companies Act of statements of comprehensive income, South Africa, and for such internal control consolidated and separate statements of as the directors determine is necessary to changes in equity and consolidated and enable the preparation of consolidated and separate cash fl ow statements for the year separate fi financial statements that are free then ended in accordance with International from material misstatement, whether due to Financial Reporting Standards and fraud or error.
the requirements of the Companies Act 01 of South Africa.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated and separate fi financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and separate fi financial statements are free from material misstatement.
