Independent auditors report Significant events since the recent investment on which Opinions and conclusions arising from the fair value is based may indicate that the price of the our audit investment, unadjusted, is no longer representative of 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is fair value.
Due to the nature of the Groups investment unmodified portfolio, funding rounds can be more than 12 months We have audited the financial statements of IP Group plc for the apart.
Whether it remains appropriate to use the price year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the consolidated of the recent investment depends on the specific statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement circumstances of the investment and the stability of the of financial position, the consolidated statement of cash flows, external environment.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Company Our response In this area our audit procedures included, balance sheet and the related notes.
In our opinion: among others: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Challenging whether the price of recent investment is an of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 appropriate basis for the measurement of the fair value December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then applied to year end valuations by assessing the proportion ended: of funds raised by external parties in the relevant funding the Group financial statements have been properly prepared rounds.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards For a sample of investments, we enquired through as adopted by the European Union: discussion with IP Groups business building team whether the parent Company financial statements have been properly any events had occurred since the most recent investment prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and that may affect the fair value.
We independently verified the events communicated by IP Groups business building the financial statements have been prepared in accordance team, for example to external news sources and critically with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as assessed these events as potential indicators of fair value regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS adjustment.
We attended the year-end valuation meeting with the 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Directors and certain members of senior finance personnel In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements to assess the robustness of the discussion and review of the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the investment valuations.
our audit were as follows: We considered the appropriateness, in accordance with relevant accounting standards, of the disclosures related Carrying value of unquoted equity investments 207.7m to unquoted investments.
We reviewed the disclosure of Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, pages 94 and 95 sensitivities to the valuation.
accounting policy and pages 106 and 107 financial disclosures.
Fair value of intangible asset on business combination 21.4m The risk 39.7% of the Groups total assets by value is held in investments where no quoted market price is available.
99.8% of Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, page 93 accounting the unquoted investments are measured at fair value, which is policy and pages 103 and 115 to 116 financial disclosures.
established in accordance with International Private Equity and The risk On acquisition of Fusion IP plc, the Group Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
As per the guidelines, the recognised an intangible asset for university agreement Group uses the price of recent investments as the appropriate contracts at fair value.
There are a number of assumptions measurement of fair value.
The principle risks associated with this made by the directors to determine the fair value of the measurement technique are outlined below: intangible asset including the inflation rate and venture There is a risk that recent investments on which fair value capital industry activity adjustment.
Determining the fair is based are not sufficiently at arms length to ensure an value of the intangible asset is a key judgmental area that our independent market valuation representative of fair value.
There is a risk that the valuation basis and Due to the relatively low number of investors partaking in assumptions used may not be appropriate.
funding rounds, this is considered to be a risk to the fair Our response In this area our audit procedures included, value of IP Groups unquoted investment portfolio.
among others: Critically assessing the appropriateness of the valuation basis used by the Group in determining the fair value of the intangible asset by reviewing the valuation methodology used.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 84 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Financials Auditors Report Our Financials Auditors Report We used our own corporate finance specialist to assist us 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the scope of our audit the Group to value the intangible assets acquired.
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of the We agreed key assumptions in the valuation model to Groups total assets as disclosed in the consolidated statement of external corroborating information, for example the financial position, of 533.1m, of which it represents 1.5%.
venture capital industry activity as produced by the British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association and the In addition, we applied materiality of 784k to revenue from inflation rate used.
services and other income and other administrative expenses, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than We also considered the adequacy of the Groups materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be disclosures in respect of the appropriateness of the reasonably expected to influence the economic decisions of the valuation basis used for the intangible asset.
Group taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Carrying value of goodwill 57.1m We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, page 93 accounting identified misstatements relating to the statement of financial policy and pages 102 and 103 and 115 to 116 financial position exceeding 400k, in addition to other identified disclosures.
misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The risk IP Groups impairment review of goodwill involved Of the Groups reporting components, we subjected 8 to audits the calculation of value in use through a discounted cash for Group reporting purposes.
These 8 entities account for 95% flow model and comparison of this amount to the carrying of the Groups revenue, 92% of the total profits and losses that value of goodwill recognised in the accounts.
The discounted made up the Groups profit before tax and 98% of the Groups cash flow model contained significant levels of judgment total assets.
over the assumptions used including, the discount rate and the assumptions to the cash flow forecasts which included None of the remaining 5% of total Group revenue, 8% of total the disposal and IPO exit valuations, the annual investment profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax and 2% rate and the weighted average holding period.
Due to the of total Group assets individually represented more than 5% of inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting any of total Group revenue, total profits and losses that made up future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
recoverability, this is one of the key judgmental areas that our 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the audit is concentrated on.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Our response In this area our audit procedures included, In our opinion: among others: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Critically assessing the principles and integrity of the value audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the in use discounted cash flow model.
Companies Act 2006, and We used our own corporate finance specialists to assist us the information given in the Strategic Report and the in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial the Group, in particular those relating to the discount rate.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial We reviewed the assumptions around IPO exit valuations statements.
and agreed the assumptions to historic exit valuations achieved for reasonableness.
We compared the annual investment rate to both historical information and company cash flow forecasts for the upcoming year for reasonableness.
We assessed the weighted average holding period for reasonableness by re-calculating the holding period of previously disposed investments, those being an indicator of future holding periods.
We considered the sensitivity of the valuation model to the key assumptions above through a sensitivity analysis that considered the impact of each assumption on the value in use.
We assessed whether the Groups disclosures of the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment reviews to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
com 85 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Independent auditors report continued Scope and responsibilities 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors matters on which we are required to report by Responsibilities Statement set out on page 81, the directors exception are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements identified other information in the annual report that contains a is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial www.
This report is statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise made solely to the companys members as a body and is misleading.
subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at In particular, we are required to report to you if: www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are we have identified material inconsistencies between the incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, statement that they consider that the annual report and the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor model and strategy: or Chartered Accountants the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately 15 Canada Square address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
London E14 5GL Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 9 March 2015 if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance statement on pages 48 to 57 relating to the Groups compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 86 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Financials Auditors Report
