Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc OUR AUDIT APPROACH REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview Our opinion Materiality Overall Group materiality: 9.1 million which In our opinion, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plcs represents 5% of underlying profit before tax, which Group financial statements the financial statements : comprises profit before tax adjusted for nongive a true and fair view of the state of the Groups recurring exceptional items.
affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and Audit Scope We conducted full scope audits of the financial cash flows for the year then ended: information at 23 operating units which included have been properly prepared in accordance with significant operations based in the UK and Australia.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs In addition, certain Group functions, including those as adopted by the European Union: and covering treasury, taxation and pensions were have been prepared in accordance with the subject to a full scope audit.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article The full scope reporting entities and Group 4 of the IAS Regulation.
functions where we perform audit work accounted What we have audited for approximately 78% of Group revenues and 81 % Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plcs financial statements of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring comprise: exceptional items.
the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December Area of Focus Our risk assessment analysis identified the following 2014: areas of focus: the consolidated income statement and consolidated Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets.
statement of comprehensive income for the year then Revenue recognition.
ended: Appropriateness of actuarial assumptions and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year inputs in the calculation of the defined benefit then ended: pension liability.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions.
the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include The scope of our audit and our areas of focus other explanatory information.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Certain required disclosures have been presented Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & I. elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at the financial statements and are identified as audited.
where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of The financial reporting framework that has been applied in significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and the preparation of the financial statements is applicable considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets We evaluated the appropriateness of the key assumptions including discount rates, short-term growth and long-term growth See accounting policies section within the financial statements for rates and performed a range of sensitivities across the CGUs.
In the disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and particular: estimates and notes 11 & 12 for detailed goodwill and other intangibles disclosures.
We evaluated the reasonableness of managements forecast by challenging assumed revenue growth strategies and We focused on this area because the determination of whether or planned operational improvements attributable to the relevant not certain elements of goodwill and other intangible assets are software products concluding that these were reasonable: impaired involves complex and subjective judgements by management about the future results of the relevant parts of the We compared the terminal growth rates in the forecasts to business.
third party economic and industry forecasts noting that those used by the Directors were within a reasonable range: At 31 December 2014 the Group had 476m of goodwill arising from acquisitions and 86m of intangible assets which includes We assessed the weighted average cost of capital WACC balances such as development of computer software and for the company and comparable organisations noting that the capitalised employment contract payments.
balances used across the Group by the Directors were within a reasonable range: and On an annual basis, management calculate the amount of headroom between the value in use of the Groups Cash Generating Units We performed additional sensitivity analysis to ascertain the CGUs and their carrying value to determine whether there is a extent of change in those assumptions that either individually potential impairment of the goodwill relating to those CGUs.
The or collectively would be required for the goodwill and determination of the amount of headroom is dependent on the value intangibles to be impaired noting that in the majority of cases in use of the CGU, which in turn, is dependent on estimates of it would require a fairly extreme set of circumstances to occur short-term and long-term profit growth from operational before impairment was required.
For both the goodwill of the Thistle UK operating unit and Management determined that there was reasonable headroom for all intangible assets in relation to development of software products of the Groups CGUs.
we challenged managements growth rates.
The short-term growth rates are based on the 2015 budgets prepared by each The majority of the intangible assets balance relates to computer CGU, we have reviewed the accuracy of managements software.
The Directors calculate the amount of headroom between forecasting process by comparing previous budgets to actual the value in use of the software and their carrying value.
The results and reviewed the current budget in relation to current determination of the amount of headroom is dependent on the business plans and the economic climate.
The long-term growth estimates of short-term profit growth from operational improvements rates are based on a country specific terminal growth rate.
We attributed to the software.
assessed the terminal value in the context of the country by Management determined that there was reasonable headroom for reference to growth rates produced by third parties.
We the Groups computer software assets.
concluded that the planned level of profit growth both in the short and long term appears achievable.
We focused the goodwill and intangible assets where managements assessment indicated lower headroom - specifically the goodwill in As a result of this work we determined that the impairment relation to the Thistle UK operating unit and intangible assets relating assessments for Thistle UK and intangible assets in relation to the to development of software products, 25m and 28m development of software products were acceptable based on the respectively, and the assumptions management made in these current business plans.
However we note that the value in use for areas.
these items is highly sensitive to future growth projections.
76 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition For all material revenue streams we have updated our understanding of the key internal controls over the revenue streams See accounting policies section within the financial statements for and tested the relevant controls in place to obtain comfort over the the disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and existence, cut-off and accuracy of revenue around the Group.
found no deficiencies in the operating effectiveness of these key We focussed on the existence, cut-off and accuracy of revenue controls that would have impacted our testing strategy.
because the Group has certain revenue streams within which the Insurance broking timing and extent of revenue recognition is more complex or judgemental or where the processing is manual rather than systemWe tested the timing of revenue recognition and whether the Group driven and as a result is more at risk of misstatement due to fraud appropriately recorded insurance broking revenue taking into or error.
The streams we focused most heavily on are: account contractual terms and performance obligations to customers and insurers by testing a sample of revenue transactions Insurance broking back to the documentation sent to the third party to confirm Income relating to insurance broking is accounted for at the later of existence.
We noted no instances of inappropriate revenue policy inception date or when the policy placement has been recognition arising from our testing.
Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an element of income relating to the policy We assessed the methodology used to calculate the revenue is deferred to cover the associated contractual obligation.
deferral required for future servicing requirements.
We tested the inputs into this calculation, such as the salary costs associated with Employee benefits the claims team and related overheads, and assessed the Income relating to employee benefit services includes fees and appropriateness of the key assumptions in relation to the duration of commissions.
Fees are charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis the future servicing requirements such as claims handling and the and are recognised in line with the performance of the underlying costs associated with this servicing.
We are satisfied that the service leading to estimations of accrued revenue and work in amount of revenue deferred at 31 December 2014 for these progress WIP.
At 31 December 2014 accrued revenue and WIP obligations is appropriate.
Employee benefits Commission is recognised upon confirmation of the underlying We tested a sample of revenue transactions using substantive and policy or product.
data auditing techniques back to appropriate supporting documentation such as client invoices.
We noted no material exceptions from this testing.
We performed substantive testing over accrued revenue and WIP including evaluating the recoverability of these balances with reference to the accuracy of prior year estimates against the current year realisation.
Where possible we tested accruals to post balance sheet invoices and cash receipts.
We noted no material exceptions from the procedures we performed.
77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Appropriateness of actuarial assumptions and inputs in We tested the completeness and accuracy of the pension scheme calculation of the defined benefit pension liability.
membership data provided to the managements actuary on which the pension liability is calculated comparing the data to the See accounting policies section within the financial statements for underlying payroll systems.
We noted no material exceptions from the disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and our testing.
estimates and note 31 for detailed pension disclosures.
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used by We focussed on this area as the pension scheme valuation is highly management including the key assumptions used to value the sensitive to changes in the assumptions used within the model pension liabilities.
which calculates the valuation and the subsequent charge or credit to the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
At 31 Discount rate: We considered the appropriateness of the December 2014 the net pension deficit amounted to 179m.
3.59% discount rate assumption used for the UK scheme by reference to the iBoxx AA corporate bond index.
We reviewed The key assumptions to which the liability is most sensitive are as the adjustment made by management to match the duration of follows: the liabilities and compared this to assumptions adopted by Discount rate: Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the discount other schemes with a similar duration.
rate is set with reference to the yield on high quality corporate Inflation rate: We reviewed managements analysis of the split bonds of term appropriate to the duration of the liabilities.
of the liability between current and future pensioners to which Inflation rate: the level of future pension payments is linked to separate inflation assumptions are applied.
We agreed the price inflation indices.
Various investment market statistics are rates used by management for each of these elements to the used to form a view on the long term average rates of price Bank of England inflation curve.
retail and consumer price inflation.
Mortality: We considered the appropriateness of the base Mortality: Scheme specific base tables should be used with an tables selected for use by management by reference to the allowance for future improvements in life expectancy based on mortality experience analysis completed by the UK Pension recent projections.
These projections will depend on future Scheme Trustees as part of the 2014 funding valuation.
expectations of improvements in life expectancy and are No material exceptions were identified as part of our testing of the therefore uncertain.
assumptions outlined above and we consider the assumptions used to be in line with recognised market practices.
We are satisfied that the overall pension deficit is appropriately calculated.
Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions We assessed managements process for the identification and valuation of provisions for the Groups potential and outstanding See accounting policies section within the financial statements for litigation.
the disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note 23 for detailed provision disclosures.
To ensure the completeness of the claims summary we reviewed legal expenses across the Group to test whether there were We focused on this area because of the inherent uncertainty which potential areas of unrecorded potential and actual claims.
can surround litigation provisions in relation to potential and actual claims where clients or third parties have alleged that the Group has We considered the underlying judgements and sensitivities in been negligent in relation to the provision of services advice.
relation to the circumstances of the claim and managements Consequently there is judgement needed in estimating the estimate of the amount required to settle any potential claims requirement for and the level of provision required.
At 31 December including costs having regard to the potential for bias.
2014 the litigation provision amounted to 6m.
In instances where external legal counsel has been engaged we obtained external confirmation that the details of the case provided by the Group are appropriate.
We reviewed the accuracy of managements estimates in the prior years against actual settlements or current estimates of the provision required.
Although uncertainties always exist with regards to litigation to which the provision relates, we considered managements overall provision to be appropriate based on the work performed and evidence obtained.
78 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31st December 2014 2014 2013 Notes 000 000 Fees and commissions 2 1,099,728 974,623 Investment income 2,4 4,398 4,529 Total revenue 2 1,104,126 979,152 Salaries and associated expenses 6 671,758 580,968 Premises 57,927 53,638 Other operating costs 172,426 157,386 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 3 28,139 24,667 Operating profit 1,2, 3 173,876 162,493 Analysed as: Operating profit before exceptional items 1,2 196,830 185,365 Acquisition and integration costs 3 13,271 9,020 Business Transformation Programme 3 7,753 9,521 Restructuring costs 3 2,482 - Premises consolidation costs 3 - 5,022 Other exceptional items 3 552 691 Operating profit 1,2, 3 173,876 162,493 Finance costs 5 22,972 17,476 Finance income 5 1,526 1,441 Finance costs - net 5 21,446 16,035 Share of results of associates 3 7,306 8,106 Profit before taxation 1,2 159,736 154,564 Income tax expense 8 42,072 41,789 Profit for the year 117,664 112,775 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 2 105,291 101,960 Non-controlling interests 12,373 10,815 117,664 112,775 Earnings per share attributable to the owners of the parent 9 during the year expressed in pence per share Basic earnings per share 47.9p 46.6p Diluted earnings per share 47.8p 46.4p The notes on pages 86 to 137 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31st December 2014 2014 2013 Notes 000 000 Profit for the year 117,664 112,775 Other comprehensive expense Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of post employment benefit obligations 31 51,394 9,370 Taxation thereon 9,907 1,364 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 41,487 8,006 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Fair value gains losses net of tax: - available-for-sale 203 48 - available-for-sale reclassified to the income statement 204 - - cash flow hedges 17,457 1,720 Currency translation differences 3,238 24,332 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 20,696 22,564 Other comprehensive expense net of tax 62,183 30,570 Total comprehensive income for the year 55,481 82,205 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 43,312 72,830 Non-controlling interests 12,169 9,375 55,481 82,205 The notes on pages 86 to 137 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
