Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited Opinion on financial statements of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the companys profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Financial Position, the Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement on pages 43 to 44 that the company is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identied any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of investments at Fair Value We assessed the assumptions used in the valuation model to determine the fair value of investments, described in note 10 There is a risk that the assessment of the valuation of investments to the financial statements.
Our audit procedures included, at fair value is not appropriate.
The Groups investments comprise among others: equity and subordinated debt interests in PPP infrastructure projects.
There is no liquid market for these projects, and therefore testing the operating effectiveness of controls around certain there are significant judgements required regarding cash ow project models at various service organisations, and the forecasts and discount rates used, within the valuation models.
valuation process adopted by management and the Board: The details of managements judgements can be found at note 10 challenging of macroeconomic assumptions including to the financial statements.
ination and tax rates comparing to observable market data and forecasts: The IASB have claried that all subsidiaries which are themselves investment entities and provide services to the parent company challenging the discount rates applied, comparing to market should be held at fair value.
These have been consolidated data and peers: historically.
There is a risk that the assessment of the fair value of reviewing managements cash ow forecasts, focusing on underlying subsidiaries is not accurate.
The working capital movements since acquisition, project specic matters, balances, cash, and debt draw-downs are required to be operational issues, value enhancements, and actual results accounted for at fair value, as is any value identied in the group compared to historic forecasts: and structure itself.
There are assumptions required in determining the fair value of the investments, considering for example, tax effects discussing the valuation of investments with our valuation and whether there are any reasons why cash cannot ow directly specialists and challenging managements specialists.
Investment entities restatement of comparative information In line with IFRS1, the implementation of Investment Entities: We have challenged the restated comparative financial Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, information and the associated disclosures.
We have also IFRS 12 and IAS 28 has meant that JLIF have been required to reviewed the required valuation methodology for 2013 to restate their comparative information.
There is a risk that this include the process of determining the fair value of subsidiaries restatement will be incorrectly performed, due to incomplete and the group structure to assess whether this has been disclosures, the incomplete consideration of balances requiring consistently applied.
This included performing the procedures as restatement, or miscalculations.
Additionally, there is the risk that discussed above concerning the fair value of investments risk.
the narrative information supplementing the restated financial We have reviewed the disclosures made concerning the information might be unclear or inaccurately explain both why clarification from the IASB, to determine whether no undue the restatement was required, and how it has been performed.
prominence has been given to non-GAAP measures.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 47.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 39 to 40.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the Company to be 16 million 2013 24 million, which is below 2% 2013 3% of equity.
This has been determined using a benchmark of equity which we believe is the key benchmark used by members of the Company in assessing financial performance.
To align more closely with other comparable companies, we have reduced the percentage that we apply from 3% to 2%, leading to the reduction in our materiality.
We have applied a lower materiality threshold of 2.5 million 2013 2.4 million for cash affecting balances, such as interest received, dividends received and administrative costs as such transactions are important to investors and provide the net income to support distributions to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.32 million 2013 0.48 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
The audit team have also begun a rotational programme of visits to JLIF PPP infrastructure projects and management service agreement providers.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Clacy, FCA for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 24 March 2015
