Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2014 and of the Companys profit for the year then ended: the Companys financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 24.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Directors report on page 33 that the Company is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
How the scope of our audit Risk responded to the risk Valuation of investments We reviewed and assessed the Global Custody SOC1 controls report of the The investments of the Company 875.7m make up Custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank over the valuation of investments and tested 110% of total net assets 803.6m.
the design and implementation of the controls in place.
There is a risk that investments within the portfolio We agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment may not be actively traded and the prices quoted may ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing not be reflective of fair value.
To test the liquidity of investments as at 31st December 2014, we obtained the trading activity and volume of shares traded around the period end, by sampling across the portfolio held at the period end, focussing on the small cap holdings, and to identify any investments which were not frequently traded and considered indicators of impairment by monitoring the price of any post period-end sales.
We challenged the Manager and Directors regarding their assessment of the portfolio pricing and liquidity.
We reviewed the completeness and appropriateness of disclosures in relation to fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
44 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 How the scope of our audit Risk responded to the risk Ownership of investments We reviewed and assessed the Global Custody SOC1 controls report of the The investments of the Company 875.7m make up Custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank to understand the controls in place over the 110% of total net assets 803.6m.
ownership of investments and tested the design and implementation of the controls in place.
There is a risk that investments within the portfolio may not represent the property of the Company.
We agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to the confirmation received directly from the independent custodian.
Valuation of Derivative instruments We engaged our financial instruments specialists to review the accounting Derivative instruments used to hedge the currency risk treatments and approach to derivatives in the Company and review the arising from the USD investment portfolio and the GBP valuation work performed.
debenture may not be recorded at values equivalent to We obtained independent valuation of derivative contracts held by the fair value as this is a complex accounting area.
Company at 31st December 2014 from an independent third party pricing The Company enters into short-term currency source.
contracts with a range of counterparties.
The We obtained independent confirmations of open forward currency contracts Companys policy is to fair value derivatives in the at 31st December 2014 from the derivative counterparty.
Changes in the contracts are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
We compared the treatment adopted in the financial statements with the requirements of the SORP.
Calculation of performance fees We tested the design and implementation of controls in place to calculate the Performance fees or the performance provision are performance fee.
calculated based on the difference in the return We reperformed the calculation of performance fee using inputs provided by between the Company and its benchmark, the S&P management and the basis per the terms of the signed investment 500 index over 10%.
As this is a complex calculation, management agreement.
there is a risk the performance fee may be calculated incorrectly We reviewed the payment schedule and traced the payments through the bank to determine whether the allocation of the fee was in line with the disclosed policy.
Recognition of investment income We tested the design and implementation of the controls over revenue Dividends from equity shares 15.2m are accounted recognition, completeness and allocation.
We also reviewed and assessed the for on an ex-dividend basis.
JPMorgan Asset Management AAF 01 06 report on internal controls.
Dividends are accounted for as revenue, except where: For a sample of corporate actions and special dividends received, we in the opinion of management and the board, the challenged managements rationale for the allocation between revenue and dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is treated capital against the requirements of the SORP and agreed details of the as a return of capital.
dividend to a third party source to evidence the nature of the dividend.
We developed an expectation of the dividends received for the year using There is a risk that revenue is incomplete or that it is market yield to assess the reasonableness of the dividends recorded.
incorrectly allocated between revenue and capital accounts.
To test the completeness of revenue, for a sample of investments held in the year, we agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared, obtained from an independent pricing source to the dividend entitlement report.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: Failure to comply with the provisions of Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
This risk is not considered to have had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 37.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 Independent Auditors Report continued Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company as being approximately 1% of Net Assets, which is 8,057,500.
This is a change of approach from 2013, where materiality of 19,300,000 was based on 3% of Net Assets.
We have changed the percentage applied to align more closely with comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2013: 50,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit There were no changes to the scope of our audit since the prior year.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at the administrator who prepares the financial statement of the Company by reviewing a controls report over their activities.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
46 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stuart McLaren Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, London, United Kingdom 31st March 2015 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
