EMIT pp36 42 EMIT pp36 42 01 10 2014 10:25 Page 36 Independent Auditors Report to the members of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Report on the financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Our opinion Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: financial statements and to identify any information that is give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially affairs as at 30th June 2014 and of its net return and cash inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course flows for the year then ended: of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the have been properly prepared in accordance with United implications for our report.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Overview of our audit approach have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, What we have audited both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements, which are prepared by JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc the Company, Based on our professional judgement, we determined an comprise: overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole of 3,750,000 which is approximately 0.5% of Net Assets.
the balance sheet as at 30th June 2014: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the income statement for the year ended 30th June 2014: them misstatements identified during our audit above the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and 187,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in the cash flow statement for the year then ended: and our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a Overview of the scope of our audit summary of significant accounting policies and other The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company which explanatory information.
was managed during the year by an independent investment manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Investment Manager.
their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally The financial statements, which remain the responsibility of Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Directors, are prepared on their behalf by the Investment Manager.
The Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, What an audit of financial statements involves delegated the provision of certain administrative functions to We conducted our audit in accordance with International JPMorgan Chase & Co. Investor Services the Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give In establishing the overall approach to our audit we assessed reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
This includes an assessment of: As part of our risk assessment, we considered the Companys interaction with the Manager and Company Administrator, and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the we assessed the control environment in place at both Companys circumstances and have been consistently organisations, to the extent relevant to our audit of the applied and adequately disclosed: Company.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement made by the Directors: and to determine the extent of testing required over each balance the overall presentation of the financial statements.
36 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp36 42 EMIT pp36 42 01 10 2014 09:06 Page 37 Areas of particular audit focus concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis In our audit, we tested and examined information, using is appropriate.
sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we However, because not all future events or conditions can be considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We considered the following areas to be those that required In our opinion: particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of the information given in the Strategic Report and the all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed Directors Report for the financial year for which the these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on financial statements are prepared is consistent with the those matters that they considered to be significant issues in financial statements: and relation to the financial statements is set out on page 29. the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be How the scope of our audit addressed Area of focus the area of focus audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Valuation and The investment portfolio comprised of listed existence of equity investments.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception investments We tested the valuation of the investment Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations portfolio by agreeing the valuation to We focused on received independent third party sources.
this area because Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to investments We tested the existence of all investments held you if, in our opinion: represent the within the investment portfolio to an we have not received all the information and explanations principal element independent custodian confirmation.
we require for our audit: or of the financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Risk of management We tested journal entries to determine whether branches not visited by us: or override of internal adjustments were supported and appropriately controls authorised.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement ISAs UK & Ireland We built an element of unpredictability into require that we our detailed testing by testing immaterial with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this management responsibility.
Directors remuneration Going Concern Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern.
We specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing have no exceptions to report arising from our review.
Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have have no exceptions to report arising from these concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial responsibilities.
statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate Corporate Governance Statement resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 EMIT pp36 42 EMIT pp36 42 01 10 2014 09:06 Page 38 Independent Auditors Report continued Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit to report having performed our review.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors On page 35 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Responsibilities set out on page 35, the Directors are Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and understandable and provides the information necessary for for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
members to assess the Companys performance, business Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the model and strategy.
On page 29, as required by C3.8 of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with the statement given by the Directors is materially Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company acquired other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or in the course of performing our audit: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor Other information in the Annual Report for and on behalf of  LLP Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 1st October 2014 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
38 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
