Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our response In this area our audit procedures included, 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified among others, using our own valuation specialists to the We have audited the financial statements of BTG plc for the year extent necessary: ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 76 to 121.
In our opinion: Inspection of the Groups valuation analysis, which included the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state reviewing the independent external valuation report of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at prepared for each of the acquisitions, which were the basis 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: for the determination of the fair value of the intangible assets.
We critically challenged the key assumptions within the Group financial statements have been properly prepared those reports, in particular we challenged and evaluated the in accordance with International Financial Reporting reasonableness of assumptions underlying the Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as identification of separately identifiable intangible assets in adopted by the EU : respect of the developed and in-process intangible assets the Parent Company financial statements have been properly acquired, the revenue growth rates included in the forecasts prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and and the useful economic life attributed to the acquired as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies assets, together with considering what is represented by the Act 2006: and residual goodwill.
In performing this assessment we had regard to available competitor products and market barriers the financial statements have been prepared in accordance to entry, launch dates, the timing of patent expiry, forecast with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as peak sales, expectations on reimbursement and pricing, and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS historical generic substitution rates subsequent to Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Evaluation of the Groups analysis of the fair value of the In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements contingent consideration with reference to the EKOS the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect contract terms and definitions.
We challenged the revenue on our audit were as follows: growth assumptions underlying the forecast future cash Acquisition accounting flows with reference to historical trends and performance Refer to page 48 Audit Committee statement, page 82 subsequent to the acquisition date: and accounting policy and pages 114 to 116 financial disclosures.
Assessment of whether the Groups disclosures with respect The risk During the year the Group completed the to the acquired entities and the estimation required comply acquisitions of EKOS Corporation EKOS and the Targeted with those required by the relevant accounting standard.
Therapies division of Nordion Inc.
There is significant Carrying value of goodwill 123.6m and other intangible judgement involved in determining the fair value of the assets 397.9m identifiable assets and liabilities acquired given the highly Refer to page 48 Audit Committee statement, page 83 specialised nature of the acquired businesses, the early stage accounting policy and pages 96 to 98 financial disclosures.
of the acquired products life cycles and in the case of Targeted Therapies, in process research and development.
For both of The risk With regard to the Interventional Medicine cash the acquired businesses, the fair value of assets acquired generating unit, the goodwill and other intangible assets, predominantly relates to existing developed technology, being primarily comprising developed technology, are considered for 227.8m out of a total 245.4m.
impairment based on cash flows for established products and products under development.
These include the established Contingent consideration of up to $40m is payable in respect Beads products along with significant cash inflows forecast in of the EKOS acquisition on the achievement of future relation to the newly acquired EKOS and Targeted Therapies commercial milestones.
Given the uncertainty regarding clinical products which are at the early stage of their product achievement of these milestones, significant judgement is lifecycle, and Varithena which has regulatory approval in the required in measuring the fair value of the Groups contingent US and is due to launch in that market.
The key business risk consideration obligation both at the acquisition date and at affecting the carrying value of the Interventional Medicine the balance sheet date.
goodwill and other intangible assets is therefore the ability to Given this we considered these issues to be significant successfully commercialise the products concerned.
72 The Groups primary analysis is based on value in use in line 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of with its intentions for recovering the carrying value of these our audit assets.
The value in use is derived from discounted future cash The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole flow forecasts reflecting the projected trading volumes of the was set at 6.0m.
This has been determined with reference to a existing and under development products.
Due to the inherent benchmark of Group revenue of which it represents 2.1% which uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future we consider to be one of the principal considerations for cash flows this is one of the significant audit risk areas that members of the Company in assessing the financial our audit is concentrated on.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected among others, using our own valuation specialists to the and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit extent necessary: with a value in excess of 0.3m, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted Inspection of Board minutes and the Groups documented reporting on qualitative grounds.
assessment for identifying whether there are indicators of potential developed technology and other intangible asset Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by impairment, taking into account performance during the component auditors at the key reporting components in the US, year, competitive developments and trial results where Australia and by the Group audit team in the UK.
In addition relevant: specified audit procedures were performed by the Group team in respect of the subsidiaries acquired in the US and Canada Testing the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the during the year.
These Group procedures covered 100% of total forecasts are based with reference to historical accuracy Group revenue: 99% of Group profit before taxation: and 99% of and minuted Board approval, and evaluating that the total Group assets.
principles of the Groups discounted cash flow model are in accordance with the relevant accounting standard: The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to Critical analysis of the Groups discounted cash flow models materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
prepared for individual intangible assets where an These materiality levels were set individually for each impairment indicator has been identified, or prepared for the component and ranged from 0.1m to 1.5m.
purpose of assessing the recoverability of goodwill.
We assessed the reasonableness of revenue forecasts with Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these reference to historical trading performance and peak sales locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas assessments for established products, and with regard to that should be covered by these audits which included the useful economic lives we considered the dates of patent relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set expiry.
Externally derived data together with our own out the information required to be reported back to the Group assessments of key inputs, such as discount rates were also audit team.
The Group audit team physically visited key reporting considered in this assessment: components in the USA and UK.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at that location and all of the other For more recent acquisitions we also compared actual locations that were not physically visited.
results post acquisition for launched products to the results in the business case supporting the transaction, and 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies considered the status of products under development with Act 2006 is unmodified reference to decisions documented in the Board minutes In our opinion: and available trial results: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We analysed the Groups sensitivity analysis for key has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies assumptions, including revenue growth rates, operating Act 2006: and margins and discount rates to identify particular risk areas the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors to focus on: and Report for the financial year for which the financial Assessment of the adequacy of the Groups disclosures, statements are prepared is consistent with the financial including sensitivity analysis, in respect of the carrying value statements.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only continued 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which Scope of report and responsibilities we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, Statement set out on page 71, the directors are responsible for based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have the preparation of the financial statements and for being identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations In particular, we are required to report to you if: and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are we have identified material inconsistencies between the incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, statement that they consider that the Annual Report and the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Chartered Accountants Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 15 Canada Square communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
London E14 5GL Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 19 May 2014 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 38 to 45 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
74 Financials Financial statements, notes and other key data.
Financials Consolidated income statement 76 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 77 Consolidated statement of financial position 78 Consolidated statement of cashflows 79 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 81 Company statement of financial position 117 Company statement of cashflows 118 Company statement of changes in equity 118 Notes to the company financial statements 119 Shareholder information 124 Cautionary statement and Trademarks 125 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Financials
