INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC Report on the financial statements Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Our opinion Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report, rather than in the In our opinion: notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from Jupiter Fund Management plcs Group financial statements and the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company year then ended: financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of the Companies Act 2006. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Our audit approach The Company financial statements have been properly prepared The scope of our audit and our areas of focus in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We conducted our audit in accordance with International IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective Regulation.
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering What we have audited future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, Jupiter Fund Management plcs financial statements comprise: we also addressed the risk of management override of internal The Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 controls and fraud in revenue recognition, including evaluating December 2014: whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that The Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows for The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the year then ended: our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are The Consolidated and Company statements of changes in identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set equity for the year then ended: and out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a of significant accounting policies and other explanatory whole, and any comments we make on the results of our information.
procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Our audit approach overview Areas Materiality Audit scope of focus Overall Group materiality: Full scope audit of Jupiter Asset Management Revenue recognition 6.6m which represents five Limited and Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited judgements and risk of errors.
per cent of adjusted profit because they each represent more than 15 per Share based payments before tax which is profit cent.
of the profit before tax of the Group.
before tax from continuing Full scope audit of Jupiter Investment Impairment of goodwill.
operations excluding the gain Management Group Limited as a number of Current and deferred income on sale of the private client balances, including investments, are material to tax.
Gain on sale of private client Our audit work on Jupiter Asset Management contracts.
Limited, Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited and Jupiter Investment Management Group Limited together with our work performed on the head office functions, accounted for more than 95 per cent of Group revenues, Group profit before tax 112 and Group adjusted profit before tax.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition judgements and risk of error We understood and evaluated the design and implementation of Refer to Note 1.1.
Basis of preparation key controls, including relevant Information Technology systems and other accounting policies.
and controls, in place around revenue.
This included both in-house and outsourced activities at the administrators and transfer agent.
Revenue is the most significant account balance in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenue is made of a number of To obtain audit evidence over the key controls at the outsourced streams including: providers such as at administrators and transfer agent supporting the calculation and recognition of revenue, we either: Gross management fees relating to Unit Trust SICAV, segregated mandates investment trusts, private clients and Performed testing of key controls to obtain evidence of rebates : operational effectiveness of those key controls throughout the Performance fees: year: or Initial charges: and Assessed the control environment in place to the extent that it Box profits: was relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and accounting structure in place involved obtaining and reading and result from the business activities of the Group.
the report issued by the independent auditor of the third party We focused on a number of aspects of revenue as follows: providers in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
We then identified those key controls The calculation of gross management fee, which makes up the on which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
majority of the revenue balance, is calculated as a percentage When the controls reports had not been prepared as at 31 of the assets under management AUM of the funds December 2014, we obtained a bridging letter from one of the managed by the Group.
Assessing the AUM of these funds administrators and the transfer agent.
involves judgement as it is correlated to the market value of a range of financial instruments held by these funds.
Various We found that the key controls on which we sought to place valuations methodologies are used to value those instruments, reliance for the purposes of our audit on were designed, some straightforward and some more complex and implemented and operated effectively.
judgemental, which leaves room for manipulation of the fund We also obtained substantive audit evidence which included the AUM and as such the gross management fee: matters noted below: The revenue from segregated mandates investment trusts is manually calculated as a percentage, per Investment Gross management fees Management Agreements IMAs, of the segregated Obtained evidence over the valuation of AUM by either testing mandates investment trusts holdings.
The value of the holdings the related key controls in place at the administrator or is provided by either the administrator or the segregated identifying those key controls in the administrators controls mandates investment trusts, which are clients of the Group.
The report as mentioned above: judgement involved in valuing these holdings together with the Reconciled management fees calculated by the administrators manual process, increase the risk of error and fraud through to amounts included in the Group financial statements: and the manipulation of the valuations: Reconciled a sample of management fee rates to the Unit Rebates are calculated by a combination of in-house systems Trusts documents published on Jupiters website.
and external parties mandated by the Group to sell units Segregated mandates investment trusts shares of funds it manages, with both processes being Obtained comfort over the AUM by either getting confirmations performed on spreadsheets.
The key fraud risks arise around i from a sample of the segregated mandate investment trust the manipulation of the percentages of rebates granted, ii the clients or reconciled a sample of holdings to the administrator manipulation of the calculations contained in the spreadsheets, system on which key controls have been tested: and iii the postings of fraudulent journals to understate Re-performed the management fee calculation over a sample rebates and thus inflate revenue: of invoices agreeing a sample of the key inputs back to source Performance fees are often one-off or infrequent and involve documentation: and complex calculations.
As Jupiter fund managers are entitled to Manually recalculated and reconciled management fee receive a significant portion of each performance fee earned, selected for testing to the management fee schedule.
there is an incentive to overstate this fee and or recognise it before the performance criteria have been met: Rebates Initial charges are a one-off type of revenue and different Obtained data generated by administrators of the SICAVs and client contractual terms dictate the calculation of these fees used data auditing techniques to re-perform the SICAV rebate and are thus more susceptible to the risk of fraud and error: calculations for a selected sample, agreeing the rates to Box profits vary from one transaction to another and is quite discount forms signed by the clients of the Group and complex and as such there is an increased risk of fraud and reconciled the amounts back to the general ledger: error: and Used data auditing techniques to recalculate 100 per cent.
of The value of bonuses, and other long-term schemes, is linked the Unit Trust rebates computed by the transfer agents or to revenue measures which could add additional pressure on Jupiters rebate calculator system.
We obtained evidence over management to achieve target results.
the key controls of the transfer agent for the value of the holdings and over the administrator for pricing and agreed a sample of rates to discount forms signed by the clients of the Group: and Agreed the classification of amounts between rebates and renewal commissions by confirming whether the discounts have been paid to end investors or to intermediaries.
To do so we 113 looked at the discount forms signed by the investors and at the agent websites.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Performance fees Assessed whether a sample of performance fees has been recognised in the appropriate period: Re-performed the computation of performance fees for that sample to check that it has been calculated in accordance with the signed IMA: and Agreed that for the same sample the fee had crystallised and hence should be recognised during the year.
Initial charges and box profits Used data auditing techniques to re-compute 100 per cent.
of initial charges calculated by Jupiters calculation system and 100 per cent.
of box profits calculated by the transfer agents calculation tool: Relied on information from the transfer agent for which controls evidence was obtained for both initial charges and box profits: and Agreed the rate and terms to the discount forms for a sample of clients paying initial charges.
Based on our work, we found that: Revenue has been appropriately measured and recognised in accordance with the various contractual agreements in place with customers and service providers: and The judgements made by the Directors were supportable and reasonable in the context of materiality and that the input data used was consistent with supporting documentation.
We also performed tests over manual and automated journal entries posted to revenue to identify unusual or irregular items which included understanding the nature and purpose of the journal and agreed the details to supporting and corroborative evidence.
114 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Share based payments expense We understood and evaluated design and implementation of the Refer to the Audit Committee report, Note 1.5.
Share based key controls in place over the share based payment expense and payment and Note 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting performed the following to address the risks identified for each policies.
type of share based payment transaction: We focused on this area because there is an inherent risk due to Obtained and read the Deeds of Grant for new and amended the judgemental nature in determining the value of the awards, awards in the year: the interpretation of complex terms in the scheme agreements, Tested each of the new awards in the year by checking that the number of schemes in operation, the required record keeping they were appropriately authorised, consistent with scheme and the manual nature of the calculations.
plans, classified correctly as equity or cash settled and used the correct share price: In addition, the expense is material to the financial statements Obtained and read third party valuation reports for new refer to Note 1.5 in the Group financial statements.
schemes and grants made in the year and tested those valuations by agreeing key inputs used to source documentation and independently re-calculated the value of the award using an industry accepted mathematical model: Assessed the reasonableness of the estimates in relation to performance conditions and or service conditions for existing awards.
The key assumptions in calculating the share based payment expense are the leaver rate and performance conditions.
We therefore assessed the reasonableness of managements judgements by examining historical data and performing sensitivity analysis and used this to challenge management on their judgements: Tested a sample of options exercised during the year to ensure they were exercised in accordance with the terms of the grant, recorded at the correct value and appropriately authorised: Obtained details of all outstanding awards and checked that the charge was spread in accordance with the appropriate period of the award: and Assessed whether all disclosures required by IFRS 2 Share based payments had been made and appropriately reflected the scheme agreements and the calculations and estimates made.
Based on our work, the treatment and disclosures relating to the schemes, and changes made to schemes in the year, were consistent with the requirements of IFRS 2.
Furthermore, we found that the pricing model used to value the awards was in line with accepted market practice and that the assumptions made by management were reasonable.
115 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of goodwill We obtained and understood managements impairment review Refer to the Audit Committee report, Note 3.1.
Goodwill and Note and checked that it was in compliance with the requirements of 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting policies.
IAS 36 and performed the following: Management are required by IAS 36 Impairment of assets to Agreed Jupiters share price as at 31 December 2014 to external perform an annual impairment review and consider if there are sources, confirmed the number of share outstanding at that any impairment indicators in respect of the carrying value of date with the registrar and re-computed the market goodwill.
capitalisation: Net cash was composed of cash and cash equivalent.
Cash The carrying value of the cash generating unit containing the was reconciled without exception to our cash testing: goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the Agreed that net assets other than goodwill was deducted from higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal.
the enterprise value and consistent with the financial statements: Management has assumed that the Group is made of one and operating segment, investment management.
As such the Group Agreed that the estimated costs of disposal was reasonable.
A is one cash generating unit.
sensitivity analysis was performed and managements Management have used the fair value less costs to sell approach assessment of the costs of disposals is reasonable based on under IAS 36.
As they have not identified any impairment they our work.
have not considered value in use.
We also compared the fair value less costs of disposal to the The impairment review involves a number of significant value in use derived from the financial analysis performed by judgements to be made by management, and as the balance of analysts external to the Group using a discounted cash flow goodwill is material, the impairment of goodwill has been method.
considered an area of focus.
Based on our work, we found that managements goodwill impairment review was consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 and that all appropriate matters had been considered by management as part of that review.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements and concluded that they were sufficient.
Current and deferred income tax In assessing the current and deferred income tax, we: Refer to Note 1.10.
Deferred tax Assessed whether management had reflected appropriately the and Note 5.1.
changes in UK corporation tax in their current and deferred The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the income tax calculations: tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet Obtained and read tax working papers for the Groups material date in the countries where the Group operates and generate legal entities and, where appropriate, agreed these to our audit taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions work papers and supporting documentation: taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable Read managements assessment of the tax impact of its sale of tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions private client contracts and challenged managements where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid assumptions and estimates, where appropriate: to the tax authorities.
Obtained the deferred tax calculations and assessed the recoverability of the deferred tax assets.
We evaluated whether Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences the temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their sufficient taxable profit available against which the temporary carrying amounts in the financial statements.
difference can be utilised: and The calculation of the current and deferred tax is produced Tested the tax disclosures and presentation in the Annual manually and is based on a number of supporting complex Report complied with IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements calculations including share based payments, deferred bonuses, and IAS 12 Income taxes.
the spreading of initial charges, commissions and sale of private We also evaluated whether the Group had met its compliance client contracts.
obligations for the material territories in which the Group operates, The manual process and judgements involved increase the risk of and as such we: misstatement and as such, we have considered current and Evaluated the tax reporting and compliance position of the deferred taxation to be an area of focus.
Group including consideration of ongoing or new tax audits being undertaken by various fiscal authorities in the UK: and Assessed the conclusions reached by management in relation the current transfer pricing arrangements, worldwide debt cap, changes to the group structure and controlled foreign companies position.
Managements assumptions and judgements in respect of the Groups current and deferred tax positions are supportable and reasonable in the context of the information currently available.
116 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Gain on sale of private client contracts In checking that the assets under management AUM transferred Refer to the Audit Committee report, Note 1.7.
Other gains were correctly determined we: including sale of private client contracts and Note 5.1 Basis of Tested key controls supporting the valuation of the AUM for preparation and other accounting policies.
private clients including ITGC controls: The Group sold its private client contracts to Rathbone Investment Tested the completeness of the population transferred by Management Limited Rathbones during the year.
testing a sample of private client contracts which executed the transfer to Rathbones: This was a significant non-standard transaction for the Group Obtained and read communications between the Group and and as such posed greater risk that it had not been accounted Rathbones approving the AUM of the contracts transferred: for correctly in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Randomly selected a sample of clients transferred to Rathbones European Union.
The key aspects of the transaction which and tested withdrawals and enrichments made to assess the required our focus as a result included: final accuracy of the AUM transferred: The judgements made by management in determining the fair Reconciled the sale proceeds to bank statements: and value assumptions used in calculating the asset values of the Obtained and read the signed contract of sale to check that contracts sold: the terms of the contract appropriate to the determination of The costs related to the transactions were composed of fund AUM to be transferred were consistent with our audit work.
managers incentive costs, redundancy cost and other With respect to assessing that the costs had been appropriately professional fees: and accounted for, we: The judgement required in identifying and classifying these costs as transactions costs.
Tested the completeness of the costs related to the sale of the private client contacts through discussion with management, reading the relevant documentation and reconciling the costs to the general ledger: Selected a random sample of costs and agreed them to supporting documentation: Used our experience to assess whether these costs were directly attributable to the sale, paying attention to costs such as incentives and redundancy costs and agreed those costs to supporting documentation: and Evaluated the incentives and redundancy packages received by the Groups staff to establish that the conditions for payment had been met and that the payments made were in line with the packages agreed.
We also assessed that the presentation and disclosure in the financial statements of Other gains including sale of private client contracts complied with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Based on our work, the computation of the private client sale consideration was consistent with the sale purchase agreement, controls evidence was obtained over the valuation of the AUM of the private client contracts sold and the sale costs were supported by corroborating documentation and were appropriately classified.
117 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and and the industry in which the Group operates.
extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements The Group is structured along a single business line being as a whole.
The Group is composed of the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom and 18 subsidiary Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality entities.
11 subsidiaries are incorporated in the United Kingdom and for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 7 abroad.
The Group is operated centrally from the UK.
Overall Group materiality 6.6m 2013: 5.7 m. In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we How we determined it Five per cent.
of adjusted profit before determined the type of work that needed to be performed for tax which is the profit before tax from each one of the components to be able to conclude whether continuing operations excluding the sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on gain on sale of the private client the Group financial statements as a whole had been obtained.
This materiality level therefore performed full scope audits on the complete financial represents four per cent.
of profit information of Jupiter Asset Management Limited and Jupiter Unit before tax.
Trust Managers Limited because they are financially significant Rationale for We have used the adjusted the profit components, each representing more than 15 per cent.
of the benchmark applied before tax as a benchmark due to the profit before tax of the Group.
We also performed a full scope sale of private client contracts being a audit on the complete financial information of Jupiter Investment non-recurring transaction, as such this Management Group Limited because there are a number of year the adjusted profit before tax is a balances within this company, including investments, which are better representation of the day to day material to the Group financial statements.
business of the Group than the profit before tax.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were also audited at the head office.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Taken together, the entities and head office functions where we them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3m 2013: performed our audit work accounted for more than 95 per cent.
0.3m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our of Group revenues, Group profit before tax and Group adjusted view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out in the Directors report, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors report, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The information given in the corporate governance statement set out within the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
118 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors in the Statement of We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors responsibilities, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report included within the Audit We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Committee report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work the Audit Committee, does not appropriately addresses matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee Adequacy of accounting records and information and Corporate governance statement explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been if, in our opinion: prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report We have not received all the information and explanations we arising from this responsibility.
require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been corporate governance statement relating to the Companys received from branches not visited by us: or compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance The Company financial statements and the part of the Code.
Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Directors remuneration the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion true and fair view.
In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Act 2006. financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with arising from this responsibility.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
119 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC continued What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Sandra Dowling Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 February 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of Jupiter Fund Management plc s website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were 120 initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OTHER INFORMATION
