INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: Bunzl plcs Group and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, which have been prepared by Bunzl plc, comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2014: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and UK GAAP.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 15 million which represents 5% of profit before taxation Audit scope We perform audit work in 21 different countries in North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World, representing 72 components Areas of focus Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Corporate tax exposures Rebate accounting Defined benefit pension liabilities Business combinations BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 121 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page 83 accounting policies and page 92 Note 9.
The Group has material goodwill balances and customer In our testing of managements annual goodwill and other relationship intangible assets spread across multiple geographies.
intangible assets impairment calculations, we used our specialist We focused on each significant cash generating unit CGU valuation knowledge to assist our evaluation of the appropriateness the most significant being North America, France Hygiene and of the models and the key assumptions used by management.
UK Hospitality as well as the smaller goodwill and intangibles We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors forecast by balances relating to the CGUs with the lowest level of headroom.
comparing the assumptions made to internal and external data.
In particular: In assessing whether the carrying amount of these assets has been impaired, management considers forecast cash flows of we compared short term revenue growth rates to the latest three the individual CGUs which are identified on a market and year strategic plans and found them to be consistent: geographical basis.
we confirmed that long term growth rates were not inconsistent with economic forecasts: Managements impairment assessment involves significant estimation, principally relating to short and long term revenue we found the achievability of future margins to be plausible based growth, future profitability and discount rates.
The number on past and current performance: and of acquisitions and the magnitude of the aggregated related we challenged the discount rate used to determine the present goodwill and intangible assets, together with the subjectivity value by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and of the principal assumptions, required a significant amount of comparable organisations.
audit effort, particularly as some of those assumptions are dependent on economic factors and trading conditions specific Furthermore, we obtained evidence to confirm adequate historical to overseas territories.
accuracy in managements forecasting process.
Having ascertained the extent of change in key assumptions that either individually As described in Note 9 to the financial statements, management or collectively would be required for goodwill and other intangible concluded that, based on their own sensitivity calculations, no assets to be materially impaired, we considered the likelihood reasonable change in assumptions would lead to an impairment of such a movement in those key assumptions to be low.
of goodwill or other intangible assets.
Corporate tax exposures Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page 82 accounting policies and pages 89 and 90 Note 6.
The Group operates in a number of international territories with We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions complex taxation rules and regulations.
The interpretation of these both at Group and local levels.
complex regulations and the unknown future outcome of pending judgements by the tax authorities results in the need to provide We used our specialist tax knowledge and experience to assist us against a number of uncertain tax positions.
in challenging the appropriateness of managements judgements in relation to uncertain tax positions.
These procedures assisted in our We focused on this area because of the risk surrounding the level corroboration of managements position on the amount of significant of estimation and judgement that is necessary in determining the tax exposures and the provision and disclosures made in the provisions required.
In assessing the adequacy of the tax provisions, we also considered factors such as possible penalties and interest.
Furthermore, we confirmed that the calculations were in line with the Groups policy and that the methodology and principles had been applied consistently.
122 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Rebate accounting Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report and page 82 accounting policies.
We focused on this area as rebate income from suppliers is We evaluated the processes in place for recognition of supplier material to the consolidated financial statements.
rebates by the Group and found these to be consistently applied.
We agreed the nature of rebate arrangements to contracts or Given the degree of estimation involved in accounting for volume other supporting agreements and agreed the rates indicated based rebates, including the level of judgement involved in in the agreements with those used in the calculations.
We also forecasting the volume of products expected to be purchased, reperformed rebate calculations.
No exceptions were noted we focused our audit procedures on the accuracy, valuation, from this testing.
completeness and cut-off of these transactions.
For rebates that depend on the volumes purchased in a given period, we compared the volume included in the rebate calculation to the volume of products recorded in the underlying records in managements forecasts.
This did not identify any rebate amounts which were misstated.
Where possible, we also agreed the post year end settlement of year end receivable amounts included in the opening and closing Consolidated balance sheets to bank receipts.
Defined benefit pension liabilities Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page 84 accounting policies and pages 103 to 106 Note 20.
The Group has significant defined benefit pension schemes in the We used our own specialist actuarial knowledge to satisfy US and UK with a net pension deficit of 70.3 million which is ourselves that the assumptions used in calculating the US and UK material in the context of the Consolidated balance sheet.
pension scheme liabilities are appropriate, including confirming that salary increases and mortality rate assumptions were Management estimation is required in relation to the measurement consistent with relevant national and industry benchmarks.
of pension scheme liabilities and management employs independent We verified that the discount and inflation rates used in the actuarial experts to assist it in determining appropriate valuation of the pension liabilities were consistent with our assumptions such as inflation levels, discount rates, salary internally developed benchmarks and, where available, with increases and mortality rates.
other companies reporting as at 31 December 2014.
In each case we considered the assumptions made by management to be Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the reasonable in light of the available evidence.
Business combinations Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page 81 accounting policies and pages 108 to 111 Note 24.
Given the acquisitive nature of the Group, accounting for business Management relies on external experts to value significant combinations is an area of focus due to the judgements involved.
intangibles acquired in business combinations.
Where management has relied on such experts, we assessed their competency and Business combinations can involve significant judgements in tested the results of their work and found no issues.
relation to the assets and liabilities that are recognised, particularly the allocation of purchase consideration to goodwill and separately We used our own specialist valuation knowledge to challenge the identified intangible assets.
Any misstatement made in the methodology and key assumptions used in determining the value identification and or valuation of acquired intangibles gives of the customer relationship assets for the more significant rise to an equal, compensating misstatement in goodwill.
We concluded that the cash flows applied within the valuation models and the key assumptions applied to the cash flows, such as the discount and growth rates, were appropriate.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the sectors in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised geographically into four business areas, being North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World.
We identified one significant component, being North America.
In addition to this, we have identified eight components across Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World for which a full scope audit of their financial information was required.
In order to satisfy the request of the Audit Committee and management, we performed full scope audits on a further 63 components.
Our audit procedures covered over 95% of total Group revenue, profit before taxation and total assets.
The audit undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were performed to respective statutory materiality levels of the individual components.
These local statutory materiality levels were set individually for each component and agreed with the Group audit team and ranged up to 12.8 million.
Where work was performed by component auditors, detailed instructions were issued by us and we ensured that our involvement in this work was at such a level that we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group audit team visited North America, UK, France and Brazil.
Telephone discussions were also held with component auditors at these locations and with the majority of the components which the Group audit team did not visit in person.
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 15 million How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation Rationale for benchmark applied Given that the Groups businesses are profit orientated, we believe that profit before taxation provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them any misstatements identified during our audit above 750,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
124 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report arising from Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as this responsibility.
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report arising from the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated this responsibility.
by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 120, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 125 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 February 2015 126 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
