Independent Auditors report To the members of Just Retirement Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Just Retirement Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2014, which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Parent Company balance sheet and the related notes.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Insurance liabilities 6,483.6m Refer to page 51 Audit Committee Report, pages 82 and 83 accounting policy and the disclosures in note 22 to the financial statements.
The risk: The Group has significant insurance liabilities representing 61.8% of the Groups total liabilities.
This is an area that involves significant judgement over uncertain future outcomes, mainly the ultimate total settlement value of long-term policyholder liabilities.
The valuation of the insurance liabilities in relation to the individually underwritten annuity business requires the exercise of significant judgement in the setting of mortality, expense and credit risk assumptions, where a small change can have a significant impact on the reported balance.
The mortality assumptions of the Group are derived from the base tables set out in note 22 adjusted to reflect the Groups expected future mortality experience of the annuitants, based on the medical and lifestyle evidence collected during the underwriting process and the Groups assessment of how this experience will develop in the future.
Economic assumptions, such as investment return and associated discount rates, and operating assumptions including expenses, are other key inputs used to estimate these long-term liabilities.
The significant judgements and assumptions are input into complex calculations which are used to determine the total settlement value of long-term policyholder liabilities.
Our response: Our procedures in this area included, amongst others, testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the identification, measurement and management of the Groups calculation of the long-term policyholder liabilities and the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
We involved our own internal actuarial specialists to assist us in our challenge of the assumptions.
Procedures performed included those set out below: Evaluating the appropriateness of the base tables and mortality assumptions used in the valuation of the annuity liabilities by reference to company and industry data on historical mortality experience and mortality improvement rates: Assessing the credit risk assumptions when determining the liquidity premium applied to the discount rate and appropriateness of managements methodology and assumptions by reference to industry practice and our expectation derived from market experience: Assessing the annuity expense assumptions taking into consideration the Groups historical experience, industry data and the estimated impact of future and recently announced legislation: and Recalculating a sample of individual policyholder liabilities at the balance sheet date using our own models to assess the accuracy of managements calculation and appropriateness with reference to standard industry methods.
Other key audit procedures included assessing the Groups methodology for calculating the insurance liabilities against industry practice and their analysis of the movements in insurance liabilities during the year, including considering whether those movements are in line with the assumptions adopted by the Group, our understanding of developments in the business and our expectation derived from market experience.
We considered the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of insurance liabilities, in particular the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
70 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Reinsurance assets 3,616.3m and liabilities 3,464.0m Refer to page 51 Audit Committee Report, page 83 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes 22 and 25 to the financial statements.
The risk: Reinsurance assets represent 31.9% of the Groups total assets.
Reinsurance deposit liabilities represent 33.0% of the Groups total liabilities.
Both the reinsurance asset and deposit liability calculation method are set out in the reinsurance treaty and both balances are sensitive to movements in mortality assumptions, economic assumptions and credit quality of reinsurers.
The calculation of these balances is complex and involves significant judgement over uncertain future outcomes, mainly the ultimate total settlement value of long-term policyholder liabilities.
As part of the reinsurance arrangements, the Group has the option to recapture the reinsurance in accordance with the reinsurance treaty.
There is an increased risk of material error in the accounting treatment due to the complexities of the recapture process and non-recurring nature of the transaction.
Our response: Our procedures in this area included, amongst others, testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the identification, measurement and management of the Groups calculation of reinsurance assets and deposit liabilities and the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
We involved our own internal actuarial specialists to assist us in our challenge of the assumptions and our procedures included those below: Evaluating the appropriateness of the mortality assumptions used in the valuation with reference to the basis used for policyholder liabilities and the terms of the reinsurance treaty: Assessing the Groups methodology and calculation of reinsurers credit risk with reference to industry practice and historical default rates: Assessing the Groups calculation of the balances in respect of any recapture transactions during the period and obtaining counterparty confirmations for the transactions: Considering and comparing calculations prepared by the Group against the calculation basis set out in the reinsurance treaty and industry practice.
We obtained reinsurance confirmations from the reinsurers for these balances at the balance sheet date: Assessing assets recognised through differences in calculation bases between the gross liabilities and reinsurance balances for recoverability and appropriateness against the terms of the reinsurance contract and the margins in the gross liabilities: and We also consider the Groups analysis of the movements in reinsurance assets and deposit liabilities in relation to the movements in policyholder liabilities, our understanding of developments in the business and our expectation derived from market experience.
We considered the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of reinsurance balances, in particular the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
Loans secured by mortgages 2,749.4m Refer to page 51 Audit Committee Report, page 82 accounting policy and the disclosures in note 15 to the financial statements.
The risk: The Groups investment in loans secured by mortgages represents 24.2% of the Groups total assets.
There is significant judgement in respect of the valuation of the loans secured by mortgages, which represent 36.7% of total financial assets.
The mortgages are carried at fair value based on a mark to model valuation basis using economic assumptions including property price growth, price volatility, mortality and swap rates.
Unobservable inputs used in the models include voluntary redemption rates, mortality rates and maintenance expenses.
Our response: For the mortgage assets we used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in performing our audit procedures in this area, which included, amongst others: Critically assessing whether the valuation process is appropriately designed and captures relevant valuation inputs by testing the completeness and accuracy of the information extracted from policyholder systems: Testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of controls over the origination process and ownership of title deeds: and Assessing pricing model methodologies and assumptions used within the valuation process against industry practice and valuation guidelines.
We also assess the Groups disclosures in relation to the valuation of loans secured by mortgages, in particular the sensitivity of the valuations adopted to alternative outcomes.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 71 Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of Just Retirement Group plc only 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 6m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group net assets of which it represents 0.7%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Group Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with an individual value in excess of 300,000 in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold which we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it were a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation, and total Group assets.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors Statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going concern: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UKCorporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 43, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Ben Priestley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 17 September 2014 72 Just Retirement Group plc
