Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Strategic Report: the Directors Report: Report on the Group Financial Statements the Directors Remuneration Report: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for the year then ended: by the European Union the EU, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs European Union: and of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the directors are required to: select suitable applicable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: What we have audited state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Burberry Group plc, comprise: material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively: and the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014: prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: will continue in business.
the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys the Analysis of Net Cash as at 31 March 2014: and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding explanatory information.
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and are identified as audited.
The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides What an audit of financial statements involves the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 66 to 67 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
These statements were approved by the Board on 20 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Sir John Peace Carol Fairweather Overview of our audit approach Chairman Chief Financial Officer Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 20 million.
This represents approximately 5% of profit before taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.75 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
111 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured across two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 98 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and holding companies across the two channels to market.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Accordingly, we identified six reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics, providing 79% coverage over Group revenue and 91% coverage over profit before taxation.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to taxation, litigation, impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 84.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus China put option liability valuation The valuation of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the We considered and challenged the reasonableness of key assumptions Groups business in China is based on a number of assumptions, by comparing the key assumptions to benchmark ranges, performing the key ones being the future performance of the Groups business sensitivity analysis and confirming whether methods had been in China: the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple: and consistently applied.
the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account We tested the calculation of the liability to determine whether it was the risk free rate in China refer to note 19 of the accounts.
consistent with prior periods and with the terms of the put option.
We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement We also assessed the appropriateness of disclosures relating to the involved in determining these assumptions and the magnitude of the valuation.
Inventory valuation Judgement is required to assess the appropriate level of provisioning For both finished goods and raw materials, we tested the methodology for items which may be ultimately sold below cost.
for calculating the provisions, challenged the appropriateness and consistency of judgements and assumptions, and considered the The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to nature and suitability of historic data used in estimating the provisions.
changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level of judgement involved in estimating provisions refer to note 16 of the In doing so we understood the ageing profile of inventory, the process accounts.
for identifying specific problem inventory and historic loss rates.
Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures The directors are required to apply significant judgement when We held meetings with the Groups tax team and local management to determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax understand tax developments and related tax risks, any associated assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of technical tax issues, and the status of any current tax litigation.
jurisdictions refer to notes 9 and 14 of the accounts.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the financial We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and judgement statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, having read in estimating the amount of provision required, which is increased the latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax due to the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
authorities, and having obtained written responses from the Groups external advisors containing their views on material tax exposures.
112 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Overview of the scope of our audit Risk of fraud in revenue recognition The Group is structured across two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
The Group financial statements ISAs UK & Ireland presume that we consider the risk of fraud arising We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls are a consolidation of 98 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and holding companies across the two in revenue recognition.
Whilst revenue recognition and measurement over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised channels to market.
is not complex for the Group, revenue targets form part of the Groups in the financial statements.
We also tested journal entries posted to key performance measures which could create an incentive to record revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the revenue incorrectly.
We understood and challenged the appropriateness of revenue reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network We focused on this area given the magnitude of revenue transactions recognition policies.
firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of that occur.
involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate Risk of management override of internal controls audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and Accordingly, we identified six reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
either due to their size or their risk characteristics, providing 79% coverage over Group revenue and 91% coverage over profit We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements before taxation.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to taxation, litigation, relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We performed unpredictable audit procedures and tested key reconciliations and journal entries.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect Going concern of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 73, in relation to going concern.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
This is not a complete list Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
Their report In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 84. financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Other matters on which we are required to report by exception China put option liability valuation Adequacy of information and explanations received The valuation of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the We considered and challenged the reasonableness of key assumptions Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information Groups business in China is based on a number of assumptions, by comparing the key assumptions to benchmark ranges, performing and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the key ones being the future performance of the Groups business sensitivity analysis and confirming whether methods had been in China: the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple: and consistently applied.
Directors remuneration the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account We tested the calculation of the liability to determine whether it was Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration the risk free rate in China refer to note 19 of the accounts.
specified by law have not been made.
Corporate Governance Statement put option liability.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent Inventory valuation Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report Judgement is required to assess the appropriate level of provisioning For both finished goods and raw materials, we tested the methodology having performed our review.
for items which may be ultimately sold below cost.
On page 110 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level of judgement involved in estimating provisions refer to note 16 of the In doing so we understood the ageing profile of inventory, the process Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to accounts.
assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 84, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were The directors are required to apply significant judgement when We held meetings with the Groups tax team and local management to addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax understand tax developments and related tax risks, any associated the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of technical tax issues, and the status of any current tax litigation.
performing our audit: or jurisdictions refer to notes 9 and 14 of the accounts.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the financial We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and judgement statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, having read the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in estimating the amount of provision required, which is increased the latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
due to the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
113 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 110, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matters We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor, for and on behalf of  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London, 20 May 2014 114
