Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Report on the parent Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Burberry Group plc, comprise the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014: and the notes to the parent Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
162 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Report on the parent Company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Our opinion Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Burberry Group plc, comprise the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014: and the notes to the parent Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant Directors remuneration accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In applying the financial reporting Other information in the Annual Report framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: estimates.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited parent Company financial statements: or Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent Company acquired rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are in the course of performing our audit: or identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors This includes an assessment of: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 110, the directors are responsible whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
and adequately disclosed: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and for Auditors.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Companys members as a body In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these with the audited parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2014.
In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, 20 May 2014 163
