Independent auditors report to the members of The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 47 Opinion on financial statements Investments comprise 90% of the assets of the group.
In our opinion: There is a risk that the group does not have beneficial ownership of the holdings and that the investments are the financial statements give a true and fair view of the not correctly valued at fair value as at the reporting date.
state of the groups and the companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year We have confirmed the existence of title to third party then ended: custodian confirmation, reviewed the latest available assurance report addressing the relevant controls in the group financial statements have been properly place at the custodian and have confirmed the valuation prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the of the listed investments to a third party pricing provider.
European Union: Revenue comprises dividends and interest receivable the company financial statements have been properly on the portfolio of investments held by the investment prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the trust and fees receivable from the provision of fiduciary European Union and as applied in accordance with the services.
International Standards on Auditing UK and provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Ireland presume that a risk of material misstatement the financial statements have been prepared in due to fraud in relation to revenue recognition is present accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act in all entities.
2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, We completed a review of the groups revenue Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
recognition procedures to ensure that they are consistent with prior periods, with the accounting policies and What our opinion covers IAS18.
We reviewed and checked the calculation and We have audited the financial statements of The Law validity of the accrued and deferred income recognised Debenture Corporation p. l. c. for the year ended for dividends and interest receivable and fees receivable 31 December 2014 which comprise the group income from the provision of fiduciary services.
We also obtained statement, the group statement of comprehensive a breakdown of accrued and deferred income and income, the group and corporation statement of financial selected a sample to agree back to contracts to check position, the group and corporation statement of changes the balance was in line with expectations.
in equity, the group and corporation statements of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting As part of the ordinary course of the fiduciary services framework that has been applied in their preparation is business the group may incur legal costs.
These costs applicable law and International Financial Reporting will be accrued and charged to client accounts as a fee Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and a receivable recognised.
Where the group is not and, as regards the companys financial statements, as able to recover the costs from its client the group will applied in accordance with the provisions of the record impairment for these amounts.
The recording of Companies Act 2006. accruals and the impairment of trade receivable balances are accounting estimates derived from Our assessment of risks of material judgements by management and there is an inherent risk misstatements and our approach of management override.
Management apply judgement Underpinning our audit approach is our assessment of in both determining whether there is objective evidence those aspects of the groups transactions and balances of impairment of receivables balances and in estimating which are most likely to give rise to a material the carrying amount of accruals.
The group audit team have responsibility We reviewed the amounts accrued to understand the for the audit of all components included in the basis and whether they meet the criteria for recognition consolidated financial statements.
We identified the under IAS 37.
We also reviewed the impairments of following risks that have had the greatest impact on our receivable balances to understand their basis.
During audit strategy and scope: this process we reviewed supporting documentation www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 48 Independent auditors report continued relating to the amount provided, reviewed the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, consistency of the basis for impairment compared to could influence the economic decisions of reasonable prior years, reviewed unimpaired receivables to consider users that are taken on the basis of the financial completeness of impairments, considered the historical statements.
We also determine a level of performance accuracy of managements judgements relating to materiality which we use to determine the extent of impairment of receivables balances and discussed with testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the management their judgements and assumptions in probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and recording the impairments made, challenging and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the corroborating explanations where applicable.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set We determined final materiality for the financial out on pages 31 and 32. statements as a whole to be 13,340,000.
In determining this, we based our assessment on a percentage of gross Purpose of this report assets.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together This report is made solely to the companys members, as with our assessment of the groups control environment, a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the our judgement is that performance materiality for the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been financial statements should be 75% of materiality, namely undertaken so that we might state to the companys 10,005,000.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to members those matters we are required to state to them ensure that total detected and undetected audit in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the differences do not exceed our final materiality of fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 13,340,000 for the financial statements as a whole.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland also work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
allow the auditor to set a lower materiality for particular classes of transaction, balances or disclosures for which misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the Respective responsibilities of directors financial statements as a whole could reasonably be and auditor expected to influence the economic decisions of users As explained more fully in the statement of directors taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In this responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the context, we set a lower level of materiality to apply to preparation of the financial statements and for being those classes of transactions and balances which impact satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our on the costs and the net revenue returns of the fiduciary responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the services business.
We determined materiality for these financial statements in accordance with applicable law areas to be 496,000. and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for to the Committee all audit differences in excess of Auditors.
372,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative Scope of the audit of the financial grounds.
statements and our application Opinion on other matters prescribed by of materiality the Companies Act 2006 A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the FRCs website at In our opinion: www.
uk auditscopeukprivate the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and the Companies Act 2006: performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial the information given in the strategic report and the statements.
We define planning materiality as the The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 49 directors report for the financial year for which the we have not received all the information and financial statements are prepared is consistent with the explanations we require for our audit: or financial statements: and a corporate governance statement has not been the information given in the corporate governance prepared by the company.
statement set out on pages 28 and 29 of the annual Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting the directors statement, set out on page 27, in relation processes and about share capital structures is to going concern: and consistent with the financial statements.
the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the Matters on which we are required to report UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our by exception review.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the Daniel Taylor senior statutory auditor audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company London acquired in the course of performing our audit: or United Kingdom 26 February 2015 is otherwise misleading.
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales In particular, we are required to consider whether we with registered number OC305127.
have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
