Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR OPINION In our opinion: Lloyds Banking Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Lloyds Banking Group plcs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2014: the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Set out below is an overview of our audit approach, highlighting key aspects including materiality level, scope and areas of focus of our audit.
These are described in further detail later in this audit report.
Overall Group materiality We have determined overall Group materiality to be 268 million which represents 5 per cent of adjusted profit before tax.
Profit before tax was adjusted for a number of non-recurring items.
Scope We conducted a full scope audit across individually financially significant business reporting units.
Additional business reporting units were selected to increase the level of audit evidence for each account balance, on which a combination of controls and substantive tests of detail was undertaken.
Business reporting units that are not subject to specific audit procedures are still subject to audit work on entity level controls and group level analytical review procedures over their financial information.
Areas of focus The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: Credit risk and impairment of loans and advances Uncertain tax positions to customers Recognition of deferred tax assets Conduct risk and provisions Pension valuations and obligations Actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of insurance One-off transactions contracts Fair value adjustments applied to uncollateralised derivative financial instruments THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors and management made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors or management that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 77.
172 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Credit risk and impairment of loans and advances We understood and tested key controls and focused on: OUR OPINION to customers the identification of impairment events: Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 In our opinion: the governance controls over the impairment processes, including the continuous re-assessment by Significant Accounting Policies, page 199 Critical management that impairment models are still calibrated in a way which is appropriate for the impairment risks Lloyds Banking Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view Accounting Estimates and Judgements and in the Groups loan portfolios: of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent page 295 notes.
the transfer of data between underlying source systems and the impairment models that the Group operates: Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Impairment is a highly subjective area due to the level and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by of judgement applied by management in determining the review and approval process that management have in place for the outputs of the Groups impairment the European Union: provisions.
models, and the adjustments and overlays that are applied to modelled outputs.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied Our work covered impairment of loans and advances We found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and to customers within Retail, Consumer Finance and that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial In addition to testing the key controls, we have also performed the following procedures: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We focused on the identification of impairment events, which differs based upon the type of lending product Retail and Consumer Finance and customer.
Judgement is required to determine WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED We understood managements basis for determining whether a loan is impaired and assessed the reasonableness whether a loss has been incurred.
Lloyds Banking Group plcs financial statements comprise: using our understanding of the Groups lending portfolios and our broader industry knowledge.
For Retail and We also focused on the measurement of Consumer Finance exposures, impairment is calculated using models.
We therefore tested the completeness and the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2014: impairment, including the assessment of whether accuracy of data from underlying systems and data warehouses that is used in those models.
the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: historic experience is appropriate when assessing We understood and critically assessed the models used.
Where changes had been made in model parameters the Consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements for the year then ended: the likelihood of incurred losses in the portfolios and assumptions, we understood the reasons why changes had taken place and used our industry knowledge particularly given the improving economic conditions.
the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and and experience to evaluate the appropriateness of such changes.
We performed a sensitivity analysis on the key Judgement is applied to determine appropriate assumptions as well as using our own models to estimate the impairment provision for a sample of loans.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
parameters and assumptions used to calculate Certain disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial In evaluating the models and assumptions, we also considered whether all relevant risks were reflected in the impairment.
For example, the assumption of modelled provision, and where not, whether overlays to modelled calculations appropriately reflected those risks.
customers that will default, the valuation of collateral We challenged management to provide objective evidence to support the overlay adjustments made to the for secured lending and the future cash flows of The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the modelled provision.
Modelling assumptions and parameters, such as probability of default, are based on historic commercial loan customers.
European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. data.
We challenged whether historic experience was representative of current circumstances and of the losses Management also apply adjustments, or overlays, incurred in the portfolios.
This included consideration of the improving economic conditions.
We also considered where they believe the data driven parameters if there was evidence of incurred losses which were not being identified from the historic data.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH and calculations are not appropriate, either due to Based on the evidence obtained we found that the impairment model assumptions, data used within the models emerging trends or models not capturing the risks in Overview and overlays to modelled outputs were reasonable.
An example of this is an overlay for Set out below is an overview of our audit approach, highlighting key aspects including materiality level, scope and areas of focus of our audit.
These the current low interest rates which management apply are described in further detail later in this audit report.
Commercial Banking on top of the impairment model output.
These overlays We understood and evaluated the processes for identifying impairment events within the loan portfolios, as require significant judgement.
Overall Group materiality We have determined overall Group materiality to be 268 million which represents 5 per cent of adjusted profit well as the impairment assessment processes for loans within the business support unit and run-off portfolio.
We assessed critically the criteria for determining whether an impairment event had occurred and therefore Scope We conducted a full scope audit across individually financially significant business reporting units.
Additional whether there was a requirement to calculate an impairment provision.
We tested a sample of performing loans with characteristics that might imply an impairment event had occurred for example a customer experiencing business reporting units were selected to increase the level of audit evidence for each account balance, on financial difficulty or approaching a refinancing deadline to challenge whether all impairment events had been which a combination of controls and substantive tests of detail was undertaken.
Business reporting units that identified by management.
We also haphazardly selected an additional sample of performing loans to further are not subject to specific audit procedures are still subject to audit work on entity level controls and group challenge whether all impairment events had been identified by management.
We did not identify further level analytical review procedures over their financial information.
Areas of focus The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: For a sample of individually impaired loans we understood the latest developments at the borrower and the basis of Credit risk and impairment of loans and advances Uncertain tax positions measuring the impairment provisions and considered whether key judgments were appropriate given the borrowers circumstances.
We also re-performed managements impairment calculation.
In addition, we tested key inputs to to customers Recognition of deferred tax assets the impairment calculation including the expected future cash flows and valuation of collateral held, and challenged Conduct risk and provisions Pension valuations and obligations management as to whether valuations were up to date, consistent with the strategy being followed in respect of Actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of insurance the particular borrower and appropriate for the purpose.
We further challenged management on the value of the One-off transactions contracts provisions held by comparing the gains or losses crystallised when impaired loans have been sold.
This provided Fair value adjustments applied to uncollateralised evidence that provisions held were appropriate.
derivative financial instruments From the testing performed we concluded that specific impairment provisions had been made in respect of incurred losses in the Commercial Banking loan portfolios.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS For the collective unimpaired provision, which reflects losses incurred but not yet identified, we tested the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
completeness and accuracy of the underlying loan information used in the impairment models by agreeing We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked details to the Groups source systems as well as re-performing the calculation of the modelled provision.
For the key assumptions in the model, we challenged management who provide objective evidence that they at where the directors and management made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making were appropriate.
Further, we used our industry experience and knowledge to consider the appropriateness assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of the provision.
of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors or management that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
For overlays to the modelled output, we challenged management who provide objective evidence that the overlays were appropriate.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 173 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Conduct risk and provisions We understood and tested the key controls and managements processes for: Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 identifying conduct risk exposures and assessing whether provisions or disclosures were necessary: and Significant Accounting Policies, page 199 Critical the calculation and review of conduct provisions including governance processes and approvals of model Accounting Estimates and Judgements and assumptions and outputs.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively and therefore we determined Given the continued regulatory focus on the financial that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
services sector there is a significant risk that further claims or regulatory investigations will emerge that We met with Divisional and Group management to understand the emerging and potential issues that they had impact the financial statements.
We assessed independently emerging and potential areas where exposures might have arisen based upon our knowledge and experience of emerging industry issues and the regulatory environment.
We used this There is a risk across the Group that emerging conduct to challenge the completeness of the issues identified by management and whether a provision was required.
risk areas have not yet been identified or appropriately assessed by management for financial reporting We understood customer complaints received and assessed the trends.
We tested a sample of complaints purposes, including whether a provision is required or a to understand whether there were indicators of more systemic issues being present for which provisions or contingent liability disclosed.
disclosures may need to be made in the financial statements.
Where provisions or contingent liability disclosures We read the Groups correspondence with the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority are made, judgement is required in measuring the and discussed the output of any meetings held.
We also met with the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential liabilities.
Judgement is required in estimating future Regulation Authority on a bilateral basis, and on a trilateral basis with the Prudential Regulation Authority and the redress payments to be made to customers, regulatory Chair of the Group Audit Committee.
fines, and operational costs of processing complaints We read the minutes of key governance meetings including those of the Board, and of various management and reviewing past business.
committees, as well as attending Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee meetings.
We also understood the key activities of the Conduct and Compliance function.
The majority of our detailed audit work was on the significant conduct provisions in relation to past sales of Payment Protection Insurance PPI policies, interest rate hedging products to small and medium-sized businesses and insurance products in the German branch of Clerical Medical.
We also examined other areas of compensation payments made to customers.
For significant provisions made, we understood and challenged the provisioning methodologies and underlying assumptions used by management.
For example, we challenged the basis that management used for forecasting the number of PPI complaints that will be received in the future.
For those assumptions based on historic information, we challenged whether this was appropriate for future experience.
Where management made adjustments to historical experience, we challenged the basis for and appropriateness of such changes.
We also independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
Given the inherent uncertainty in the calculation of conduct provisions and their judgemental nature, we evaluated the disclosures made in the financial statements.
In particular, we focused on challenging management that the disclosures were sufficiently clear in highlighting the exposures that remain, significant uncertainties that exist in respect of the provisions and the sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the underlying assumptions.
No additional material conduct issues that would require either provision or disclosure in the financial statements were identified as a result of the audit work performed.
174 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of We understood and tested key controls and governance around the processes for analysing economic and insurance contracts liabilities and assets representing non-economic assumptions.
We found the key controls for the setting of assumptions, including the experience the value of in-force business analysis data, were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that we could Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
Significant Accounting Policies, page 199 Critical We assessed the actuarial assumptions, including the consideration and challenge of managements rationale for Accounting Estimates and Judgements and the judgements applied and any reliance placed on industry information.
Our assessment included reference to page 227 notes.
our independent benchmarking data which considers each of these principle areas.
For persistency, longevity and The valuation of the Groups insurance contracts is expenses we considered recent experience and the appropriateness of the judgements applied by management dependent on a number of subjective assumptions on how future experience will evolve.
For persistency, we also considered the appropriateness of managements about future experience.
assumptions about future improvements given the regulatory changes removing commission for certain business.
In particular, we used historical data on nil commission business and analysis comparing lapse rates by product Some of the economic and non-economic actuarial to initial commission paid.
For longevity and expenses we assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions by assumptions used in valuing insurance contracts are comparing them to experience and latest industry data.
judgemental, in particular persistency the retention of policies over time, longevity the expectation of For credit risk and illiquidity premium we assessed the appropriateness of the methodology and any how long an annuity policyholder will live and how that modifications made against our knowledge and experience of the regulatory requirements and of the industry.
might change over time, expenses future expenses We assessed the assumptions with reference to wider market practice and prevailing economic conditions.
incurred to maintain existing policies to maturity, credit We challenged whether the actual asset mix remained an appropriate proxy to a market consistent portfolio by risk and illiquidity premium adjustments made to the comparing the proportion of illiquid assets held to the most recent public information for other similar companies.
We performed testing to confirm that the assumptions approved were those applied.
Persistency can be impacted by changes to regulation Based on the results of our audit work we concluded that the data and assumptions used by management for products sold by the Group.
In recent times the were reasonable.
Groups products have been affected by regulatory changes including the Retail Distribution Review, Pensions Auto-Enrolment and more recently the Finance Act 2014.
We focused on whether management had made appropriate assumptions against this changing regulatory background.
The Groups accounting policy is that the discount rate applied to cash flows is consistent with that applied to such cash flows in the capital markets.
Management use the actual asset mix as a proxy for deriving a market consistent view of the illiquidity adjustment to the discount rate.
Small changes in each of these assumptions can result in material impacts to the valuation of insurance contract liabilities, the value of in-force assets and the related movements in the income statement.
Uncertain tax positions We examined the analysis performed by management which sets out the basis for their judgements in respect Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 of the material tax exposures identified, together with relevant supporting evidence such as correspondence Significant Accounting Policies, and page 271 notes.
with tax authorities and legal opinions obtained.
We used our understanding of the business and also read correspondence with tax authorities to challenge the completeness of identified exposures and the need The Group has a number of open tax matters, for which for provisions.
management is required to make certain judgements as to the likely outturn for the purposes of calculating We made our own assessment of the likelihood of the tax exposures occurring based on our knowledge of tax the Groups tax liabilities.
Such matters include an open legislation and applicable precedent.
In making our assessment we considered the range of interpretation of matter in relation to a claim for group relief of losses the applicable tax legislation in the relevant jurisdictions.
We also evaluated the calculation of the exposures and incurred in its former Irish banking subsidiary.
agreed these to the financial statements.
We assessed whether the extent of the disclosures made, in particular, in relation to contingent liabilities, was based on the relevant facts and circumstances.
Managements judgements in respect of the Groups positions on uncertain tax items are supportable in the context of the information currently available.
Recognition of deferred tax assets We understood and tested key controls over the production and approval of the forecast taxable profits used to Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 support the recognition of the deferred tax asset.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented and Significant Accounting Policies, and page 247 notes.
operated effectively, and therefore we were able to place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
The recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of tax We assessed whether the forecast profits were appropriate by challenging both the underlying and economic losses is permitted only to the extent that it is probable assumptions, focusing on those directly impacting the adjusted profit figures, for example interest rates, that future taxable profits will be available to utilise the consumer spending rates and Gross Domestic Product.
We used our independent benchmarking data to tax losses carried forward.
benchmark a number of the economic assumptions to external data sources where possible, and also assessed the accuracy of previous forecasts.
When considering the availability of future taxable profits, judgement is required when assessing We also tested managements basis for allocating forecast profits between legal entities by testing the allocation projections of future taxable income which are based methodology, challenging significant assumptions and using our experience of the Groups activities.
on approved business plans forecasts.
The Chancellors autumn statement in December 2014 proposes to restrict to 50 per cent the amount of banks The allocation of forecast profits is also judgemental profits than can be offset by carried forward tax losses for the purposes of calculating corporation tax liabilities.
when considering the utilisation of the deferred We obtained managements analysis of the impact this will have on the utilisation period and the disclosures they tax assets in the separate legal entities where the have made, deeming them to be reasonable.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 175 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Pension valuations and obligations We understood and tested key controls over the completeness and accuracy of data extracted and supplied to Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 the Groups actuary, which is used to calculate the pension scheme surplus or deficit.
We also tested the controls Significant Accounting Policies, page 199 Critical for approving the fair value of the scheme assets and the actuarial assumptions and valuations.
We found the key Accounting Estimates and Judgements and controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that we could place page 240 notes.
reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit We met with management and their actuary to understand the judgements made in determining key economic schemes which in total are significant in the context of assumptions used in the calculation of the liability.
We assessed the reasonableness of those assumptions by both the overall balance sheet and results of comparing to our own independently determined benchmarks and concluded that the assumptions used by the Group.
The valuations of the pension obligations are We tested the consensus and employee data used in calculating the obligation.
We also considered the calculated with reference to a number of actuarial treatment of curtailments, settlements, past service costs and measurements, and any other amendments made assumptions and inputs including discount rate, rate to obligations during the year.
We tested the fair value of scheme assets by independently calculating a fair value of inflation and mortality rates.
for a sample of the assets held.
The treatment of curtailments, settlements, past service Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the data and assumptions used by management in the actuarial costs and measurements and other amendments can valuations and the fair value of the scheme assets are within a range we consider to be reasonable.
significantly impact the balance sheet and results of We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements, including disclosures of the the Group, as demonstrated by the curtailment gain assumptions.
Small changes in assumptions can result in material impacts to the net pension liability or asset.
One-off transactions During the year, in response to control deficiencies identified in the prior year, management introduced a new key Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 control for one-off transactions.
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the control, Significant Accounting Policies, and page 321 notes.
and determined that we could rely on this control for the purposes of our audit.
One-off transactions were deemed to be an area We met regularly with management throughout the year to understand any proposed large or unusual of focus due to their nature and previous control transactions and to discuss the accounting and disclosure implications.
deficiencies in relation to such transactions.
The We read the analysis prepared by management for the accounting treatment for all significant one-off accounting for one-off transactions can often be transactions, and challenged the appropriateness of assumptions and whether all the relevant accounting judgemental and complex, and require transaction implications had been considered.
We read the relevant legal contracts and agreed the receipt or payment of specific controls to be designed and operate cash, where applicable.
No issues were noted with the accounting treatments adopted.
Given the judgemental nature of the accounting for certain one-off transactions, we assessed the disclosures Significant one-off transactions that we focused on made in the financial statements to check they complied with the relevant accounting standards and other this year that had a material impact on the financial pronouncements on disclosures.
We particularly focused on challenging management that the disclosures were statements included the share sales of TSB, including complete and sufficiently clear in highlighting the nature, accounting treatment and financial statement impact its continuing consolidation and the exchange of of the one-off transactions.
Enhanced Capital Notes for Additional Tier 1 securities.
Fair value adjustments applied to uncollateralised We understood and tested the key controls over derivative valuations, which included the derivative valuation derivative financial instruments adjustments.
In particular, we tested: Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report, page 188 the key governance controls management had over the derivative valuation adjustments: Significant Accounting Policies, and page 285 the controls over the completeness and accuracy of data inputs to the valuation models: and notes.
the review of the derivative valuation adjustments calculated by the valuation models.
In order to comply with the IFRS definition of fair value, the Group continues to apply fair value adjustments We found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined to uncollateralised derivative positions, such as credit that we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
and debit valuation adjustments CVA and DVA and We assessed the models used by management to calculate the fair value adjustments.
As there have been no funding valuation adjustments FVA.
significant changes to the models over the year, we challenged management to demonstrate to us that the These are highly judgemental and complex models and the underlying methodologies remain appropriate.
calculations dependent on market data, and models For the data inputs used in the models, such as the creditworthiness of the Groups counterparties, we challenged developed by management.
For CVA and DVA, the management to demonstrate their appropriateness.
We also performed procedures to obtain evidence to adjustments are sensitive to factors such as the value support the inputs used in the model.
of the uncollateralised derivative financial instruments, their expected future market volatility and credit We assessed the methodology for calculating FVA and compared it to our knowledge of current industry risks.
For FVA, the methodology for calculating practices.
The methodology, which is consistent with that used in the previous year, is acceptable.
There is, the adjustments continues to evolve across the however, no consensual industry practice currently for calculating FVA.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements for valuation adjustments and concluded they are sufficient.
176 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into five segments being Retail, Commercial Banking, Insurance, Consumer Finance and TSB.
Each of the segments comprises a number of business reporting units.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the business reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed over the business reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction component auditors.
The vast majority of our audit work is undertaken by PwC UK component auditors.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those business reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This included regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit, the issuance of instructions, a review of the results of their work on the areas of focus and formal clearance procedures.
For the Groups individually financially significant reporting units a full scope audit was performed over their complete financial information.
Additional business reporting units were selected to increase the level of audit evidence on each account balance, on which a combination of controls and substantive tests of detail were undertaken.
The level of audit work was determined by our risk assessment for each account balance.
Business reporting units that are not subject to specific audit procedures are still subject to audit work on entity level controls and Group level analytical review procedures over their financial information.
The business reporting units within our audit scope contributed 87 per cent of Group total assets.
The scope of our audit of Income Statement account balances was based on our risk assessment and focussed on the larger balances.
The range of audit scope on Income Statement account balances was between 55 per cent and 97 per cent.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 268 million.
How we determined it 5 per cent of adjusted profit before tax.
Our starting point was 5 per cent of profit before tax, a generally accepted auditing practice.
However, profit before tax was adjusted to remove the disproportionate effect of non-recurring items, such as the costs Rationale for benchmark applied associated with the disposal of TSB, conduct and litigation expenses and liability management losses.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 104, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
In drawing this conclusion the directors have considered: the regulatory capital position of the Group which is critical to the market maintaining confidence in the Groups ability to absorb losses that it may occur in a market stress: and the funding and liquidity position of the Group to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including in a market stress.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In drawing our conclusion, we critically assessed the going concern assessment undertaken by management and approved by the Board of Directors.
As part of our assessment we have: critically assessed and challenged the appropriateness of the stress scenarios used and their impact on the Groups capital and liquidity position: understood and challenged key economic and other assumptions used in both the capital and liquidity plan and the Groups five year operating plan: and substantiated the Groups unencumbered collateral position and potential to access central bank liquidity facilities.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 177 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on pages 62 to 72 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 104, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report arising from Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole this responsibility.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 76, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report arising from describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
178 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 106, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the Lloyds Banking Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 179
