FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 Independent auditors report to the membersof Man Group plc Opinion on financial statements of ManGroupplc framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial In our opinion: statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally at 31December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year Accepted Accounting Practice.
thenended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Going concern accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: statement contained on page 77 that the Group is a going concern.
the Parent Companys financial statements have been properly Weconfirm that: prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards isappropriate: and the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 32 for the asagoing concern.
Group and 1 to 7 for the Parent Company.
The financial reporting Our assessment of risks ofmaterial misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition accounting In the current year the group acquired Numeric and Pine Grove.
We performed a detailed review of the purchase agreements to assess Numericwas aquired for approximately $238m in cash plus two earn-out whether all elements of the consideration had been accounted for agreements, for a total consideration currently valued at $344m.
Pine appropriately and recalculated the various elements.
Grove was acquired for approximately $6 million in cash plus a deferred amount, for a total consideration currently valued at $17m.
We used internal valuation specialists to challenge managements assumptions relating to the growth and performance factors used to The accounting treatment in respect of the various elements of the calculate the fair value of the contingent consideration and the valuation consideration paid requires the consideration of multiple factors and is of the intangible assets through comparison with historic performance therefore judgmental in nature particularly in relation to the allocation and those applied by industry comparators.
ofthe various elements between consideration and remuneration.
The valuation of the contingent consideration of $117m and the allocation of consideration to identifiable intangible assets including the allocation between goodwill and intangible assets: $137m and $198m respectively are both dependent on estimates concerning the estimated future cash flows, growth rates based upon managements view of future business prospects and the associated discount rates.
See Note 12 to the financial statements which gives further detail in relation to the acquisitions.
Goodwill impairment The Groups assessment of whether there is an impairment of goodwill We used internal valuation specialists to challenge the key assumptions within each of the three identified cash generating units or investment including the estimated future cash flows, growth rates and the discount engines is a judgemental process.
This requires estimates concerning rates applied to the separate cash generating units by comparing these theestimated future cash flows, growth rates based upon managements against industry benchmarks on similar assets, comparison against the view of future business prospects and the associated discount rates.
prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end, our understanding of the future prospects of the business and the accuracy of historical forecasts.
As at 31 December 2014 total goodwill on the balance sheet amounted to $936m 2013: $808m which equates to 28% 2013: 25% of total assets.
We tested the principles and integrity of the goodwill model and recalculated managements reconciliation of the valuation of the See Note 12 to the financial statements which gives further detail in relation CashGenerating Units to the market value of the Group.
We performed an independent sensitivity analysis to assess the risk ofimpairment to changes in assumptions and cash-flow forecasts.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70 Independent auditors report to the members continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Taxation The Group has a number of open tax matters against which provisions We have examined the analysis undertaken by management in have been made across multiple jurisdictions, the movement in which can determining the level of tax provisions held based on available supporting significantly impact the group tax charge.
evidence and in the light of our experience and the changing tax environment, raising challenges as appropriate.
The acquisition of Numeric has resulted in a need to reassess the recognition of deferred tax in respect of previously unrecognised deferred In respect of deferred tax we have assessed the appropriateness of tax assets in the Groups US operations.
managements assumptions and forecasts of the existence of future taxable profits and their consistency with the assumptions underlying See Note 9 to the financial statements which gives further detail in relation thevaluation model as required to support the recognition of deferred to taxation.
Investments in funds The Group holds investments in a number of funds which it manages.
We independently assessed whether a sample of funds held at year end The accounting for the investments requires extensive judgement in should be consolidated.
This included 100% testing of the funds included determining whether control exists and hence whether investments are in the listing maintained in London of those funds considered to be most held on the balance sheet at fair value within investments or consolidated.
at risk of potential error: the Watchlist.
Further, this is the first year that the Group has adopted IFRS 12 Disclosure We assessed each fund by considering the size of the holding as well as of Interests in Other Entities which requires additional information to be the contractual arrangements.
In particular we focused on investments disclosed in respect of funds managed by the Group but not consolidated.
in structured products where control is not necessarily dictated by percentage ownership of equity shares.
See Note 15 to the financial statements which gives further detail in relation to Investments in Funds.
We reviewed the disclosures required under IFRS 12 for compliance with the standard and performed specific procedures on the additional tables included in Note 15 by agreeing a sample of balances to third party statements and fund financial statements.
Fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition There is an inherent risk of fraud associated with revenue, specifically For year end accrued revenue we performed detailed substantive testing accrued revenue which is driven from estimates and hence is open by obtaining, where applicable, third party service organisations fee files to manipulation.
Because of this there is a risk that revenue is not post year end and agreeing that the amount was accurately estimated.
recognised in line with the accounting policy explained in Note 3 to Where the calculation is not performed by a third party, managements thefinancial statements.
calculations were obtained and it was agreed that the amount had been accurately estimated.
In addition, net revenues derived from new, amended or terminated agreements with clients or intermediaries require effective communication Further, for a sample of new, amended or terminated agreements, between multiple parties and for systems to be updated promptly we performed a review of key controls in these three identified areas andaccurately.
and agreed the fee base and rate to supporting documentation and recalculated the fee.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the New risks identified in the current year which were not included in significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed theprior year audit report include acquisition accounting, taxation and on page 39. investments in funds.
These risks pertain to transactions during the year ended 31 December 2014, and or to changes in accounting standards Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in implemented during the year ended 31 December 2014. thecontext of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion In the prior year, the previous auditors also identified management on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the override of controls as a risk in their audit report.
We have also identified risksdescribed above, and we do not express an opinion on these this risk as part of our audit strategy, however, we do not consider it individual matters.
to have had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team and hence it does not need to be discussed in our audit report.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 Our application of materiality At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in oraudit of specified account balances.
evaluating the results of our work.
The Group audit team has designed a programme of planned visits We determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the to be $19.5m 2013: $8.3m was used by the previous auditors.
As audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was performance fees are variable and can fluctuate significantly year on year, focused at least once a year, with selected visits to other locations where we have taken an average of the current year and prior year adjusted specified account balances were selected as part of the scoping on a profit before tax in order to create a more stable basis and applied risk based approach.
During the current year visits were made by the 5%.
The adjusted profit before tax number is explained in Note 2 to the Senior Statutory Auditor to the United States following the acquisitions financial statements, and the calculated materiality is below 1% of equity.
of Numeric and Pine Grove, Switzerland as a principal business unit, Adjusted pre-tax profit is a relevant benchmark as it is a key figure used Australia as a principal business unit and Hong Kong as the central by analysts in assessing the performance of the business.
finance hub for the Asia business.
We included the audit teams for our significant components in our team briefing, discussed their risk In addition we have determined that it is appropriate to use a lower assessment, and reviewed the documentation of the findings from materiality for management fees as they are also a key benchmark used theirwork.
by analysts in assessing the performance of the Group and are the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 core driver for dividend payments as per the dividend policy.
Hence it In our opinion: is considered likely that an error lower than $19.5m could influence the economic decisions of the users of the accounts.
For this reason we the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been haveset materiality for management fees at $13.4m which equates to properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and less than 2% of total management fees earned during the year.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to consistent with the financial statements.
the Committee all unrecorded audit differences in excess of $400,000 2013: the previous auditors also reported on all matters above Matters on which we are required to report by exception $400,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when inouropinion: assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require An overview of the scope of our audit for our audit: or Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that from branches not visited by us: or assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the work at nine geographical locations.
Six of these locations included accounting records and returns.
entities which were subject to a full audit 17 subsidiaries in total across the UK, Switzerland, Australia, Ireland, Cayman Islands and Guernsey, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
whilst the remaining three locations United States, Jersey and Japan and the UK included 24 subsidiaries which were subject to an audit of Directors remuneration specified account balances, where the extent of our testing was based Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
Numeric for made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited example in the USA was selected for an audit of specified account is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have balances in light of it being a new acquisition in the year.
nothing to report arising from these matters.
These nine locations represent the principal business units and account Corporate Governance Statement for 98% of the Groups total assets, 97% of the Groups revenue and Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of 96% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 41 Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
subsidiaries was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which in all instances were lower than Group materiality and range from $250,000 to $19m.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 Independent auditors report to the members continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the reportis: financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys statements: or circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
our audit: or In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the otherwise misleading.
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual the implications for our report.
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Auditand Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such Mark FitzPatrick Senior statutory auditor inconsistencies or misleading statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor London As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, 25 February 2015 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, forthis report, or for the opinions we have formed.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
