96 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of bwin.
party digital entertainment plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups In preparing the financial statements, the and the Companys affairs as at Directors made a number of subjective 31 December 2014 and of the Groups judgements and significant accounting loss for the year then ended: estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future The Group and Companys financial events that are, by their nature, inherently statements have been properly uncertain see note 1 to the consolidated prepared in accordance with financial statements.
We primarily International Financial Reporting focussed our work in these areas by Standards IFRSs as adopted by the assessing the Directors judgements European Union: and against available evidence, including The financial statements have been the risk of management override and properly prepared in accordance with bias, forming our own judgements the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated and evaluating the disclosures in the Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar financial statements.
Companies Accounts Act 1999 and The risks of material misstatement that the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 had the greatest effect on our Group audit as amended.
in the current year are noted below.
This is We have audited the financial statements not a complete list of all risks identified by of bwin.
party digital entertainment plc for our audit.
Our audit procedures relating the year ended 31 December 2014 which to these matters were designed in the comprise the Consolidated statement of context of our audit of the financial comprehensive income, the Consolidated statements as a whole, and not to express and Company statement of financial an opinion on individual accounts or position, the Consolidated and Company disclosures and we do not express an statements of changes in equity, the opinion on these individual matters.
Consolidated and Company statements We discussed these areas of focus with of cashflows and the related notes.
Their report The financial reporting framework that on those matters that they considered has been applied in their preparation is to be significant issues in relation to the applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the financial statements is set out on pages European Union.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 97 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We documented and tested the operating effectiveness of the key IT and manual Revenue recognition controls in the revenue cycle including application and access controls over the The main risk is the completeness, existence and Groups main gaming systems.
This included conducting test bets, review of change accuracy of net gaming revenue derived from the management controls, substantive and controls testing over the reconciliations Groups gaming system.
and interfaces between the main gaming systems and the nominal ledger.
We also undertook analytical and other substantive testing, including IT interrogation work.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted by the Group comply with IFRS adopted by the EU and industry standards.
In respect of additions to capitalised development costs, we tested a sample of Acquisition related and internally projects undertaken in the year against invoices from external suppliers and internal generated additions to the carrying payroll costs and assumptions, and challenged the assessment by management for value of goodwill and other intangible that sample as to whether the project spend met all the recognition criteria set out in assets IAS 38.
The risk is a material misstatement in the carrying Working with our internal valuations team we challenged managements key value of these assets, their initial recognition and assumptions, including applicable discount rates, growth rates and the impact of the computation and recording of any impairment potential regulatory changes, used in the cashflow models to assess: together with incomplete disclosures of these areas.
the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles: and The annual impairment test and recognition the computation of initial recognition criterion.
criterion are complex processes requiring significant We assessed the budgets used in the Groups models and the accuracy of prior year management judgement and based on assumptions forecasts having regard to the current year results.
We performed sensitivity analyses about future profitability and cashflows.
on these models, particularly where changes in key assumptions could indicate a material movement.
In addition to the above we also reviewed disclosures to the financial statements to conclude that they were complete and appropriately balanced.
We considered how the Group monitors legal and regulatory developments and their Impact of legal and regulatory matters assessment of the potential impact on the business and the appropriate internal and on provisioning and disclosure external advice taken in respect of these developments.
Given the continuing developing nature of the We reviewed the litigation and regulatory report provided by Groups external legal regulatory conditions and legal environment of the counsel, including legal confirmations received from other legal advisors engaged online gaming sector in a number of jurisdictions by the Group.
We discussed each of the key cases noted in the report as well as any which the group operates, and the requirement for known instances of breaches in regulatory and licence compliance with both the management judgement thereon, there is a risk Groups external legal counsel and the internal compliance department to assess the that material legal or regulatory matters are not Group s determination of the requirement for a provision or disclosure.
disclosed or appropriate provisions made.
Working with our gaming sector taxation team we reviewed the strategy and Direct and indirect taxes processes applied by the Group in managing its tax risks and compilation of period The provisioning and disclosure of these taxes have end charges and provisions in the countries where it operates or where entities been recorded as a risk due to the complexity and are registered.
international nature of the Group structure including We reviewed in conjunction with our gaming sector taxation and component audit the number of jurisdictions, particularly in Europe in teams, key management estimates and judgements having regard to any external which the Group operates or has physical presence.
We challenged the Groups assessment of those provisions and the The rules and practices governing the taxation related disclosures.
of e-commerce activity including indirect taxes continue to evolve, requiring application of management estimates and judgement with regards to the assessment and interpretation of national and international tax laws as it impacts provisioning and disclosure within the financial statements.
98 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The Audit & Risk Committees An overview of the scope of our Opinion on other matters prescribed consideration of these risks is set out on Group audit by legal and regulatory requirements pages 72 to 76.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining In our opinion: an understanding of the Group and its Our application of materiality the information given in the Directors environment, including Group-wide We apply the concept of materiality both Report for the year ended 31 December controls, and assessing the risks of in planning and performing our audit, and 2014 for which the financial statements material misstatement at the Group level.
in evaluating the effect of misstatements are prepared is consistent with the The majority of the accounting for the on our audit and on the financial financial statements: and Group is centrally managed from Gibraltar.
For planning, we consider In addition there are component auditors The part of the Remuneration Report materiality to be the magnitude by which covering the Groups operations in Austria, described as having been audited has misstatements, including omissions, France, India, Israel, Italy, Sweden and been properly prepared in accordance could influence the economic decisions the UK.
At the planning stage of the audit with Section 421 of the UK Companies of reasonable users that are taken on the we obtained the consolidated results Act 2006. basis of the financial statements.
In order broken down by subsidiary location.
to reduce to an appropriately low level Matters on which we are required to As part of our requirements under ISA the probability that any misstatements report by exception 600 Special Considerations Audit of exceed materiality, we use a lower Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are Group Financial Statements including materiality level, performance materiality, required to report to you if, in our opinion, the work of component auditors we to determine the extent of testing needed.
information in the annual report is: request that component auditors perform Importantly, misstatements below these audits to a component materiality set materially inconsistent with the levels will not necessarily be evaluated by us.
For other locations that we do information in the audited financial as immaterial as we also take account of not consider significant we request statements: or the nature of identified misstatements, they perform procedures specified by and the particular circumstances of their apparently materially incorrect based us including reviews.
The materiality occurrence, when evaluating their effect on, or materially inconsistent with, our for Group reporting for components on the financial statements as a whole.
knowledge of the Company acquired in performing audits or reviews was 2.5m the course of performing our audit: or We determined materiality for the and 1.25m respectively.
financial statements as a whole to be is otherwise misleading.
At the parent entity level we also tested 5.1M.
In determining this, we based our the consolidation process and carried In particular, we are required to consider assessment on a level of 5% of Clean out analytical procedures to confirm our whether we have identified any EBITDA.
We agreed with the Audit & conclusion that there are no significant inconsistencies between our knowledge Risk Committee that we would report risks of material misstatement of the acquired during the audit and the to the Committee all audit differences aggregated financial information of the Directors statement that they consider individually in excess of 100K.
We also remaining components not subject to the Annual Report is fair, balanced agreed to report differences below these audit, reviews or reviews with selected and understandable and whether the thresholds that, in our view, warranted audit procedures on certain balances.
annual report appropriately discloses reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also those matters that we communicated report on disclosure matters that we Based on the above scope we were able to to the Audit & Risk Committee which we identified when assessing the overall conclude whether sufficient appropriate consider should have been disclosed.
presentation of the financial statements.
audit evidence had been obtained as a basis of our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 99 Under Gibraltar legal and regulatory We report to you our opinion as to The purpose of this report and requirements we are required to report to whether the financial statements give restrictions on its use by persons other you if, in our opinion: a true and fair view and whether the than the members of the Company, as financial statements have been properly abody the Company has not kept proper prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Our report is made solely to the accounting records: Companies Consolidated Accounts Act Companys members, as a body, in if we have not received all the 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts accordance with our engagement letters.
information and explanations we Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act Our audit work has been undertaken so require for our audit: or 1930 as amended, and the part of the that we might state to the Companys Remuneration Report to be audited has members those matters that we are if information specified by law been properly prepared in accordance required to state to them in an auditors regarding Directors remuneration and with Section 421 of the UK Companies report and for no other purpose.
To the other transactions is not disclosed.
We also report to you whether fullest extent permitted by law, we do Under the Listing Rules we are required in our opinion, the information disclosed not accept or assume responsibility to to review: in the Directors Report is consistent with anyone other than the Company and the financial statements, if the Company the Companys members as a body, for the Directors statement, set out on has not kept proper accounting records, if our audit work, for this report, or for the page 95, in relation to going concern: we have not received all the information opinions we have formed.
and and explanations we require for our audit, BDO LLP the part of the corporate governance or if information specified by the Listing Chartered Accountants statement on page 62 relating to Rules and Gibraltar legislation regarding 55 Baker Street the Companys compliance with Directors remuneration and other London W1U 7EU the provisions of the UK Corporate transactions is not disclosed.
United Kingdom Governance Code specified for Scope of the audit of the financial 11 March 2015 our review.
statements performed in accordance Desiree McHard Statutory Auditor We have nothing to report in respect of with ISAs UK and Ireland For and on behalf of these matters.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the BDO Limited Respective responsibilities of Directors financial statements sufficient to give Registered Auditors and auditors reasonable assurance that the financial Regal House As explained more fully in the Statement statements are free from material PO Box 1200 of Directors Responsibilities on page misstatement, whether caused by fraud Gibraltar 62, the Directors are responsible for or error.
This includes an assessment preparation of the financial statements 11 March 2015 of: whether the accounting policies are and for being satisfied that they give a appropriate to the Groups circumstances true and fair view.
Our responsibility is and have been consistently applied and to audit and express an opinion on the BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership adequately disclosed: the reasonableness financial statements and in accordance registered in England and Wales with of significant accounting estimates with applicable law and International registered number OC305127.
made by the Directors: and the overall Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
BDO Limited, a Gibraltar limited company, Those standards require us to comply with In addition, we read all the financial and is registered in Gibraltar with company the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs non-financial information in the annual number 52200.
report to identify material inconsistencies bwin.
party digital entertainment plc within the audited financial statements has complied with the requirements of and to identify any information that is rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules of apparently materially incorrect based the UK Financial Conduct Authority and on, or materially inconsistent with, the in accordance with Section 421 of the knowledge acquired by us in the course of UK Companies Act 2006 in preparing its performing the audit.
If we become aware Annual Report, as if it was incorporated in of any apparent material misstatements the United Kingdom.
As auditors, we have or inconsistencies we consider the agreed that our responsibilities in relation implications for our report.
to the Annual Report will be those as set out below.
