JPM Mercantile pp37 43 JPM Mercantile pp37 44 01 04 2014 12:34 Page 37 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Report on the financial statements the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our opinion In addition, we read all the financial and In our opinion the financial statements, defined non-financial information in the Annual Report & below: Accounts the Annual Report to identify material give a true and fair view of the state of the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements Companys affairs as at 31st January 2014 and of and to identify any information that is apparently its net return and cash flows for the year then materially incorrect based on, or materially ended: inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in have been properly prepared in accordance with the course of performing the audit.
If we become United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting aware of any apparent material misstatements or Practice: and inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach This opinion is to be read in the context of what we Materiality say in the remainder of this report.
We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent What we have audited of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of The financial statements, which are prepared by The misstatements, both individually and on the financial Mercantile Investment Trust plc the Company, statements as a whole.
comprise: Based on our professional judgement, we the income statement for the year 31st January determined an overall materiality for the financial 2014 ended: statements as a whole of 16.8 million which is the reconciliation of movements in shareholders approximately 1% of Net Assets.
funds and the cash flow statement for the year then ended: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our the balance sheet as at 31st January 2014: and audit above 840,000 as well as misstatements the notes to the financial statements, which below that amount that, in our view, warranted include a summary of significant accounting reporting for qualitative reasons.
policies and other explanatory information.
Overview of the scope of our audit The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law The Company is a standalone Investment Trust and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Company managed by an independent investment Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited the Investment Manager.
What an audit of financial statements involves The financial statements, which remain the We conducted our audit in accordance with responsibility of the Directors, are prepared on their International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland behalf by the Investment Manager.
The Investment ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the delegated the provision of certain administrative financial statements sufficient to give reasonable functions to JPMorgan Chase & Co, Investor Services assurance that the financial statements are free from the Company Administrator.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or In establishing the overall approach to our audit we error.
This includes an assessment of: assessed the risks of material misstatement, taking whether the accounting policies are appropriate into account the nature, likelihood and potential to the Companys circumstances and have been magnitude of any misstatement.
As part of our risk consistently applied and adequately disclosed: assessment, we considered the Companys interaction with the Investment Manager and the reasonableness of significant accounting Company Administrator, and we assessed the control estimates made by the Directors: and JPM Mercantile pp37 43 JPM Mercantile pp37 44 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 38 38 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report continued How the scope of our audit environment in place at both organisations, to the Area of focus addressed the area of focus extent relevant to our audit of the Company.
Income recognition We tested a sample of dividend receipts to Following this assessment, we applied professional independent third party sources.
judgement to determine the extent of testing We focused on this required over each balance in the financial area because We tested the completeness of income statements.
incomplete or receipts for a sample of investment inaccurate income holdings.
Areas of particular audit focus could have a We tested special dividend receipts as to In preparing the financial statements, the Directors material impact on their allocation between income and made a number of subjective judgements, for the Companys net capital.
example in respect of significant accounting asset value and estimates that involved making assumptions and dividend cover.
considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these Risk of We tested journal entries to determine areas by assessing the Directors judgements against management whether adjustments were supported by available evidence, forming our own judgements, and override of internal evidence and were appropriately evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, ISAs UK & Ireland We also built an element of using sampling and other auditing techniques, to require that we unpredictability into our detailed testing.
the extent we considered necessary to provide a consider reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We management obtained audit evidence through testing the override controls.
effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Going Concern We considered the following areas to be those that Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the required particular focus in the current year.
This is Directors statement, set out on page 25, in relation not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus to going concern.
We have nothing to report having identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors Committee.
Their report on those matters that they have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements using the going concern basis of financial statements is set out on page 29. accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that How the scope of our audit the Company has adequate resources to remain in Area of focus addressed the area of focus operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial Valuation and The investment portfolio principally statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have existence of comprises listed equity investments concluded that the Directors use of the going investments together with two unquoted investments.
We focused on We tested the valuation of 100% of the However, because not all future events or conditions this area because listed investment portfolio by agreeing the can be predicted, these statements are not a investments valuation of investments to independent guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue represent the third party sources.
principal element We tested the existence of the investment of the financial portfolio by obtaining a custodian Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies statements confirmation independently and agreeing Act 2006 100% of the Companys holdings.
In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and JPM Mercantile pp37 43 JPM Mercantile pp37 44 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 39 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the section of the Annual Report describing the to be audited has been properly prepared in work of the Audit Committee does not accordance with the Companies Act 2006. appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other matters on which we are required to report by We have no exceptions to report arising from this exception responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Other information in the Annual Report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report report to you if, in our opinion: to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual we have not received all the information and Report is: explanations we require for our audit: or materially inconsistent with the information in the adequate accounting records have not been kept, audited financial statements: or or returns adequate for our audit have not been apparently materially incorrect based on, or received from branches not visited by us: or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the the financial statements and the part of the Company acquired in the course of performing Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are our audit: or not in agreement with the accounting records and is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Directors remuneration Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Responsibilities set out on page 36, the Directors are Directors remuneration specified by law have not responsible for the preparation of the financial been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising statements and for being satisfied that they give a from this responsibility.
Corporate Governance Statement Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating standards require us to comply with the Auditing to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as On page 36 of the Annual Report, as required by the a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume fair, balanced and understandable and provides the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other information necessary for members to assess the person to whom this report is shown or into whose Companys performance, business model and hands it may come save where expressly agreed by strategy.
On page 29, as required by C. 3.8 of the our prior consent in writing.
Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you for and on behalf of  LLP if, in our opinion: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, the statement given by the Directors is materially London inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company 2nd April 2014 acquired in the course of performing our audit: or
