The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 The Merchants Trust PLC Independent Auditors Report 46 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Merchants Trust PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, The Merchants Trust PLCs financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 January 2015 and of its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The Merchants Trust PLCs financial statements comprise: the Balance Sheet as at 31 January 2015: the Income Statement for the year then ended: the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year then ended: the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 5.6 million which represents 1% of net assets.
The company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Allianz Global Materiality Investors GmbH the Manager to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements at The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited the Administrator to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
Valuation and existence of investments.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on the next page.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
47 Westminster The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Merchants Trust PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Income We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for compliance with Refer to page 42 Audit Committee Report, page accounting standards and the AIC SORP and performed testing to check that 56 Statement of Accounting Policies and page income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
We found that the accounting policies implemented were in accordance with We focused on the accuracy and completeness of accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and that income has been accounted for dividend income recognition and its presentation in accordance with the stated accounting policy.
in the Income Statement as set out in the We understood and assessed the design and implementation of key controls requirements of The Association of Investment surrounding income recognition.
We then tested those key controls, including Companies Statement of Recommended Practice those related to income and corporate action processing, using inspection to the AIC SORP.
obtain evidence that the controls had operated effectively throughout the year.
This is because incomplete or inaccurate income In addition, we tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from a could have a material impact on the companys sample of investments to independent third party sources.
No misstatements net asset value and dividend cover.
were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Valuation and existence of investments We tested the valuation of the listed investments by agreeing the prices used Refer to page 42 Audit Committee Report, page in the valuation to independent third party sources.
No misstatements were 56 Statement of Accounting Policies and page identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with 62 notes.
The investment portfolio at the year-end We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings for principally comprised listed investments of investments to an independent custodian confirmation from HSBC Bank plc.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because investments represent the principal element of the net asset value as disclosed on the Balance Sheet in the financial statements.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments within the company, the involvement of the Manager and Administrator, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
The companys accounting is delegated to the Administrator who maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Manager and the directors.
As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at both the Manager and the Administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and accounting structure in place at both organisations involved obtaining and reading the relevant control reports issued by the independent auditor of the Manager and the Administrator in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
We then identified those key controls at the Administrator on which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
We also assessed the gap period of four months between the period covered by the controls report and the year-end of the company.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements, including whether we needed to perform additional testing in respect of those key controls to support our work.
We determined that additional testing of controls in place at the Administrator was required and performed such testing of controls within the gap period, as we deemed appropriate, to provide a sufficient level of evidence over the operating effectiveness of these controls throughout the period.
48 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Merchants Trust PLC continued Materiality Other required reporting The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Consistency of other information materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
Companies Act 2006 opinions These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Overall materiality 5.6 million 2013: 5.3 million Information in the Annual Report is: We have no How we determined it 1% of net assets.
materially inconsistent with the exceptions to Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, information in the audited financial report arising benchmark applied as it is a generally accepted statements: or from this auditing practice for investment apparently materially incorrect based responsibility.
on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the course of performing our audit: or them misstatements identified during our audit above 281,000 otherwise misleading.
2013: 265,000 as well as misstatements below that amount The statement given by the directors on We have no that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
page 40, in accordance with provision exceptions to C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance report arising Going concern Code the Code, that they consider from this Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the Annual Report taken as a whole to responsibility.
statement, set out on page 32, in relation to going concern.
We be fair, balanced and understandable have nothing to report having performed our review.
and provides the information necessary As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded for members to assess the companys that it is appropriate to prepare the companys financial performance, business model and statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The strategy is materially inconsistent with our going concern basis presumes that the company has adequate knowledge of the company acquired in the resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend course of performing our audit.
it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial The section of the Annual Report on page We have no statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded 42, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the exceptions to that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Code, describing the work of the Audit report arising However, because not all future events or conditions can be Committee does not appropriately address from this predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the matters communicated by us to the Audit responsibility.
companys ability to continue as a going concern.
49 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Merchants Trust PLC continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and explanations received only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other in our opinion: purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume we have not received all the information and explanations we responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to require for our audit: or whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or What an audit of financial statements involves the financial statements and the part of the Directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the accounting records and returns.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Directors remuneration companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Directors Remuneration Report - Companies Act 2006 opinion and adequately disclosed: In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the by the directors: and Companies Act 2006. the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting We test and examine information, using sampling and other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, arising from this responsibility.
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Corporate governance statement in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the audited financial statements and to identify any information the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 40, the directors are responsible Jeremy Jensen for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Senior Statutory Auditor satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 13 April 2015 UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
50 London skyline as seen from Greenwich
