Independent auditors report to the members of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodi ed For larger enterprise solutions contracts entered into during the We have audited the financial statements of Cable & Wireless year, we read the contracts and discussed key terms with the Group Communications Plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out and with country sales directors to critically assess the identi cation on pages 88 to 160 excluding pages 89 and 93.
In our opinion: of separable components.
For business, government and retail customers, to assess the relative fair value of each separable The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the component within a price plan, we tested the controls over the Groups and of the Parent Companys aff airs as at 31 March 2014 Groups estimate of standalone value.
This included comparing the and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: standalone fair values to published information on the standalone The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in price for each component.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: Valuation of trade receivables and accrued income Net trade receivables US$199 million and accrued income The Parent Company financial statements have been properly US$102 million see note 3.1, 5.1.
4 for accounting policy and notes prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and 5.2.
3 for critical accounting estimates and judgements.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Risk Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Group has signi cant trade receivables and accrued income with customers in Panama and the Caribbean.
Given the age pro le and high debt levels in these regions and the level 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement of judgement required in determining the provision levels on these In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the balances this is considered a signi cant risk.
risks of material misstatement that had the greatest eff ect on our audit are set out below.
Our response The Audit Committees consideration of these signi cant risks is set Our audit procedures included among others: out in the Audit Committee report on pages 48 to 53.
For a sample of new contractual arrangements including arrangements with dealers entered into during the year we Revenue recognition assessed whether credit checks as required by the Groups policies Revenue US$1,873 million see note 2.1, note 5.1.
14 for accounting had been performed: policy and note 5.2.
Testing of controls over the Groups collection procedures, and the Risk Groups assessment of the provision required at every period end: The Groups revenue consists primarily of mobile, broadband, TV, xed We have critically assessed the Groups provision levels by line and enterprise contracts.
considering the historical cash collection trends and the local Revenue from mobile, broadband and xed line products is considered economic environment, based on external GDP data, in each of the a signi cant risk due to both the bundling of these services and the regions: and complexity of the Groups systems and processes used to record We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures revenue.
about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
For business and government customers the Group provides enterprise solutions.
Revenue from enterprise solutions is considered Impairment of intangibles, PPE and investments in joint ventures to be a risk as the contracts can be complex and include multiple Intangibles US$526 million, PPE US$1,418 million and deliverables.
investments in joint ventures US$188 million see note 3.4, note 5.1.
5 for accounting policy and note 5.2.
1 for critical accounting Given the requirement to unbundle multiple elements within complex estimates and judgements.
contractual arrangements signi cant judgement is required in determining the appropriate measurement and timing of revenue.
Risk There is a risk of impairment of the Groups intangible and PPE assets Our response particularly in the Caribbean region in light of recent impairments Our audit procedures over revenue included, among others: in that region, together with continued technological change, Performing an analysis of revenue and deferred revenue based on challenging economic conditions and changing competitive and our industry knowledge, forming an expectation of revenue based regulatory landscapes.
on key performance indicators taking into consideration This year our work also focused on the Groups joint venture in Trinidad disconnections, installations, changes in rates and trends in deferred and Tobago, given its recent trading performance.
income days: Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in determining and Testing of controls, assisted by our IT specialists including those forecasting the future cash ows on which the value in use model is over: set-up of customer accounts: pricing data: segregation of based, and the factors above, this is considered to be one of the key duties: and the linkage to usage data that drives revenue judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
Compensating manual controls were tested for certain legacy system issues in the Caribbean region: and Annual report 2013 14 151 Independent auditors report continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued We challenged the appropriateness of the estimates used by the Group to measure the restructuring provision made.
We compared Our response the inputs in the provision model against, among others, contracted Our audit procedures included among others: salaries, contracted redundancy packages, payout levels in other Testing the principles and integrity of the models used.
We recent redundancy programmes, headcount numbers, lease compared the inputs to externally and internally derived data agreements and estimates of property related provisions: and and critically assessed the key assumptions such as market We considered the appropriateness of the disclosure of such costs performance, subscription levels, call rates and discount rates and as exceptional and that they were in accordance with the Groups the impact of competition in light of our knowledge of the client stated policy criteria.
We have also considered the adequacy of the and experience of the telecom industry in each of the markets the Groups disclosures about the restructuring provisions and the Group operates in.
We assessed the overall reasonableness of the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
assumptions and inputs used by the Group by comparing the sum of the discounted cash ows to the Groups market capitalisation For the post balance sheet agreement to sell the Groups interest adjusted for debt: and in Monaco Telecom: We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures and To assess the Groups assertion that there was not suffi cient assessed whether disclosures for goodwill about the sensitivity certainty around the sale we critically assessed all aspects of the of the outcome of the assessment to changes in key assumptions sale process.
This included consideration of the historical actions properly re ected the risks inherent in the key assumptions and of the regulator in relation to past attempts by the Group to sell the requirements of accounting standards.
this business: and We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures Business transformation about their decision not to classify the business as held for sale at Business transformation see notes 2.3.
15 for accounting policies and note 5.2.
4 for critical accounting estimates and judgements and note 5.9 for events aft er the reporting period.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Risk The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was In 2014, the asset disposals Macau and Islands led to the Group set at US$10 million.
This has been determined with reference to a undertaking a business transformation programme that has given rise benchmark of Group pro t before taxation for continuing operations, to signi cant restructuring and redundancy costs of US$174 million in and before the signi cant exceptional items as disclosed in the the continuing Group.
These costs have been classi ed as exceptional Consolidated income statement.
This benchmark is also struck before costs in the Groups Consolidated income statement.
the signi cant gain from disposal of discontinued operations which is The Groups transformation programme is considered to be a presented in the Consolidated income statement below pro t aft er signi cant risk due to the level of judgement required to be applied tax.
Materiality represents 5.1% of Group pro t before tax for in establishing the restructuring provisions.
continuing operations adjusted for exceptional costs and 1% of Group pro t for the year including all exceptional items, the discontinued gain The Group committed to market and seek a buyer for their Monaco and tax.
The items not included in the benchmark were all subject to Telecom business.
This sale was not completed as at 31 March 2014 audit procedures, including that the exceptional costs were covered as and was subject to regulatory approval.
The Group determined that a speci c risk area as discussed as part of the Business transformation the uncertainty surrounding the sale process, together with the fact risk above.
that regulatory approval was a substantive hurdle, prevented classi cation of the business as held for sale and a discontinued We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected operation at 31 March 2014. and uncorrected misstatements we identi ed through our audit with a value in excess of US$0.5 million, in addition to other audit Classi cation of this business as held for sale and a discontinued misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted operation would lead to signi cant diff erences in the presentation reporting on qualitative grounds.
of the Groups results for the year and its gross assets and liabilities.
As a result, this is one of the key judgement areas of our audit.
Our Group audit scope focused on the key operating locations Panama, Monaco and the five principal operating locations within the Our response Caribbean, together with the Groups joint venture in Trinidad and For restructuring provisions our audit procedures included, Tobago, which were all subject to a full scope audit for the year ended among others: 31 March 2014.
In addition, speci ed audit procedures were performed on the Group functions.
These locations represent the We assessed each of the restructuring plans in progress as at balance principal business units of the Group and account for 97% of the sheet date by corroborating the Groups plans to their publicly Groups total assets, 89% of the Groups revenue and 93% of the total available statements, such as press releases and communications pro ts and losses that made up the Groups pro t before tax from with trade unions.
We critically challenged whether the provisions continuing operations.
We also performed review procedures over the met the recognition criteria of accounting standards, including Groups discontinued operations.
assessing whether an expectation was created among the aff ected employees to support the timing of recognition of provision: 152 Cable & Wireless Communications The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key We have not received all the information and explanations we reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality require for our audit.
levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: levels were set individually for each component and ranged from US$4 million to US$6.5 million.
The Group audit team performed the The Directors statement, set out on page 46, in relation to going audit of the Group functions in the UK in accordance with Group concern: and materiality US$10 million.
The part of the corporate governance statement on pages 38 to 46 Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the locations.
These instructions covered the signi cant audit areas that 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review.
should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group Scope of report and responsibilities audit team visited six out of the eight full scope locations.
Telephone As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set meetings and video conferences were also held with the auditors at out on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of all locations throughout the audit.
the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act uk auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the Companys 2006 is unmodi ed members as a body and subject to important explanations and In our opinion: disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 2006: and understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
The information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor is consistent with the financial statements.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which London E14 5GL we are required to report by exception 20 May 2014 Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identi ed other information in the Annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identi ed material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or Annual report 2013 14 153
