Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Monks Investment Trust PLC Overview of our audit approach Report on the financial statements Our opinion Materiality In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and as at 30 April 2014 and of its net return and cash flows for the on the financial statements as a whole.
year then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined an overall have been properly prepared in accordance with United materiality for the financial statements as a whole of 9,729,000 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and which is approximately 1% of Net Assets.
We based our have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of materiality on Net Assets because we believe this to be the most the Companies Act 2006. appropriate measure of the Companys performance.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to remainder of this report.
them misstatements identified during our audit above 5% of overall materiality as well as misstatements below that amount What we have audited that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The financial statements, which are prepared by The Monks Investment Trust PLC the Company, comprise: Overview of the scope of our audit The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and the Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2014: employs Baillie Gifford & Co the Investment Managers to the Income Statement for the year then ended: manage its assets.
the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds and The financial statements, which remain the responsibility of the the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Directors, are prepared on their behalf by the Investment the Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Managers.
Funds Debt : and In establishing the overall approach to our audit we assessed the the notes to the financial statements, which include a risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, summary of significant accounting policies and other likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
of our risk assessment, we considered the Companys interaction with the Investment Managers, and we assessed the control The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their environment in place at the organisation, to the extent relevant to preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom our audit of the Company.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the What an audit of financial statements involves financial statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Areas of particular audit focus An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered assurance that the financial statements are free from material necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of assessment of: controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the We considered the following areas to be those that required Companys circumstances and have been consistently particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all applied and adequately disclosed: risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to by the Directors: and the financial statements is set out on page 22. the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 29 Independent Auditors Report Opinions on other matters prescribed by the How the scope of our audit addressed Companies Act 2006 Area of focus the area of focus In our opinion: Valuation and The investment portfolio is comprised of the information given in the Strategic Report and the existence of listed and unquoted investments.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial investments We tested the valuation of the investment statements are prepared is consistent with the financial We focused on this portfolio at 30 April 2014 by agreeing the statements: and area because valuation to independent third party sources.
investments represent We assessed the appropriateness of the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the principal element Directors judgements and assumptions has been properly prepared in accordance with the of the financial over the valuation of unquoted securities Companies Act 2006. statements.
by comparing the recorded valuations to independent valuation sources and, we Other matters on which we are required to report challenged adjustments made to the by exception independent valuations by the Investment Adequacy of accounting records and information and Managers to determine whether there was explanations received evidence to support adjustments made.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you We read Board meeting minutes and fair if, in our opinion: value pricing committee minutes to understand the Directors and investment we have not received all the information and explanations we Managers discussions and conclusions require for our audit: or over the valuations of investments and this adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns provided evidence that the Directors and adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Investment Managers were involved in not visited by us: or determining the valuations presented in the financial statements.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors We tested the existence of the investment Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with portfolio at 30 April 2014 by agreeing the the accounting records and returns.
holdings to an independent custodian We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Risk of management We tested manual journal entries to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you override of internal determine whether adjustments were if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration controls supported and appropriately authorised.
specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to ISAs UK & Ireland We examined significant accounting report arising from this responsibility.
require that we estimates and judgements relevant to the consider management financial statements for evidence of bias by Corporate Governance Statement override of controls.
the Directors that may represent a risk of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the material misstatement due to fraud.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys We also built in an element of compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance unpredictability into our detailed testing by Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed testing immaterial or unusual items.
Going Concern On page 28 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual statement, set out on page 22, in relation to going concern.
We Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable have nothing to report having performed our review.
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded page 22, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least opinion: one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent going concern basis is appropriate.
with our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
30 Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 28, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Catrin Thomas Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 17 June 2014 The Monks Investment Trust PLC 31
