Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Our audit opinion on the financial statements Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In our opinion: The scope of the audit of the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and of its net return for the year then ended: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the financial statements have been properly prepared in reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Accounting Practice: and error.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This includes an assessment of: Our audit opinion on matters prescribed by the whether the accounting policies applied are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently Companies Act 2006 applied and adequately disclosed: In our opinion: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the overall presentation of the financial statements.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial the information given in the Strategic Report and the information in the Annual Report and financial statements to Directors Report for the financial year for which the identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial financial statements are prepared is consistent with the statements and to identify any information that is financial statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on or materially inconsistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course What we have audited of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent We have audited the financial statements of Murray material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the International Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December implications for our report.
2014 which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Our assessment of the risk of material Funds, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to misstatement and our audit response 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied The risks included in the table below represent those material in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable risks of misstatement that have had the greatest impact on law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United our audit strategy and approach for the year ended 31 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
December 2014 including the allocation of resources and the directing of efforts of the engagement team.
The table This report is made solely to the companys members, as a also includes our audit response to each of these risks: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Risk identified Our response that we might state to the companys members those The valuation of the assets We agreed the year end matters we are required to state to them in an auditors held in the investment prices of the investments report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent portfolio is incorrect and to an independent source.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility proper legal title to these We agreed the number of to anyone other than the company and the companys assets is not held by the shares held in each members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for company.
security to a confirmation the opinions we have formed.
of legal title received from both the companys Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor custodian and its As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors depositary.
Responsibilities set out on page 39, the Directors are The management and We used the terms responsible for the preparation of the financial statements performance fees payable by contained in the and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the company for investment investment management Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the management services are not agreement to recalculate financial statements in accordance with applicable law, calculated in accordance the management and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those 40 Murray International Trust PLC with the methodology performance fees for the We applied the concept of materiality in planning and prescribed in the investment year.
performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of identified management agreement.
We agreed the inputs for misstatements on our audit and of uncorrected the calculations to source misstatements on the financial statements, and in forming data and agreed the our audit opinion.
When establishing our overall audit payments to bank strategy, we determined the magnitude of omissions or statements.
uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material to the financial statements as a whole.
This provided a basis for determining the nature of our risk Our application of materiality assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of We have defined the concept of materiality and planning material misstatement and determining the nature, timing materiality below.
and extent of further audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the company to be 12.4 Matters on which we are required to report by million, which is one per cent of total equity 2013: 12.3 exception million based on one per cent of total equity.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of We are required by the International Standards on Auditing total equity as we consider it to be the most important UK and Ireland, the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing financial metric on which shareholders would judge the Rules to report to you by exception if certain matters are performance of the company.
identified during the course of our audit.
These matters are listed below and we have nothing to report in respect of any We determined performance materiality for the company to of these matters.
be 75% of materiality, or 9.3 million 2013: 9.2 million.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to In addition, we agreed with the Audit Committee that we you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: would report any audit differences in excess of 620,000 2013: 615,000, as well as any differences below that materially inconsistent with the information in the audited threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on financial statements: or qualitative grounds.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired In accordance with the scope of our audit, we define in the course of performing our audit: or materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement otherwise misleading.
that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to In particular, we are required to consider whether we have influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge statements.
acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and We apply the concept of materiality for the purposes of understandable and whether the annual report appropriately obtaining sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit that the financial statements are free from material Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
For this reason, we also define a separate performance materiality threshold which reflects our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to tolerance for misstatement in an individual account balance you if, in our opinion: and is set as a proportion of our overall materiality.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Our objective in setting the performance materiality adequate for our audit have not been received from threshold is to identify the amount of testing required in branches not visited by us: or respect of each balance to reduce to an appropriately low the financial statements and the part of the Directors level the probability that the aggregate of any uncorrected Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement and undetected misstatements in the financial statements as with the accounting records and returns: or a whole exceeds our materiality level.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements and potential we have not received all the information and explanations audit differences against both the quantitative measures of we require for our audit.
materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Murray International Trust PLC 41 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Andrew McIntyre Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 9 March 2015 42 Murray International Trust PLC
