Independent auditors report to the members of Cairn Energy PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Cairn Energy PLCs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups loss and the groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Cairn Energy PLCs financial statements comprise: the Group Balance Sheet and the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach The context for our audit is set by Cairn Energy PLCs Cairn major activities in 2014, together with the significant fall in world oil prices in Quarter 4.
In the year, Cairn has progressed to development stage their interest in the Catcher North Sea field: raised finance for this and the other development project, Kraken: and completed a 4 well exploration drilling programme offshore North West Africa, which resulted in oil discoveries on 2 wells offshore Senegal.
Away from core operations, Cairns main focus has been dealing with enquiries from the Indian Tax Authorities relating to a group reconstruction undertaken prior to the IPO of Cairn India in 2007, which has also resulted in a restriction on the ability to sell the remaining 10% holding in Cairn India.
Overview Materiality Overall group materiality was $30.2m which represents 1% of group total assets.
Group audit scoping was performed based on total assets held within each of the 63 individual components in the group and addressed over 94% of group total assets.
Audit scope Impairment of exploration development assets and goodwill.
Impact of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited on tax provisions.
Areas of focus Going concern.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: $30.2m 2013: $36.0m.
Overall group materiality How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that total assets is an appropriate measure for an exploration and development oil and gas group that does not currently have producing assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.5m 2013: $1.8m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
For operating purposes, the group is structured around 3 key segments: Atlantic Margin North Atlantic & North West Africa, the Mediterranean and North West Europe.
During 2014, North West Europe has seen the most significant development activity, with the main exploration activity being undertaken in North West Africa.
98 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information For accounting purposes, the group is structured into 63 reporting units or components.
Our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identified 10 components which required an audit of their complete financial information.
A further 7 components were subject to specified procedures at a financial statement line item FSLI level to obtain sufficient coverage.
The majority of the finance function is in Edinburgh, other than North West Europe which is primarily accounted for in Norway.
Our PwC Norway audit team performed the audit work on the North West Europe components and all other audit work was performed by our UK audit team.
The UK team attended audit planning and clearance meetings in Norway, as well as being directly involved in the scoping and review of the work performed by PwC Norway.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of impairment of exploration development assets and goodwill Exploration assets of $417.0m relate to costs incurred where there is expected We tested managements impairment review of goodwill, capitalised exploration future activity but no approved development plan.
Development assets of and capitalised development costs.
$467.8m reflect spend to date on Catcher and Kraken.
Both of these asset categories only require an impairment review if an impairment trigger We reviewed managements assessment of impairment triggers and did not is identified.
identify any further triggers which had not been considered by management.
The goodwill balance of $145.1m arose on the acquisitions of Agora and Nautical Specific work that we performed over the impairment review included: in 2012.
As required by IAS 36, an annual impairment review is performed on comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review model to this balance.
approved budgets and business plans and other evidence of future intentions for individual exploration properties, which we found to be consistent: Due to the nature of Cairns industry, indicators of impairment include: comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and unsuccessful exploration such as experienced in Foum Draa, Juby Maritime operating expenditure forecasts to group approved values or operator and Skarfjell during the year: estimates, which we found to be consistent: the recent significant decrease seen in global oil prices: benchmarking of key assumptions including commodity price and discount changes to exploration plans: rate and inflation against our own internal data which we found to be in line: changes to reserves estimates: and performing sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the model in order to consolidated net assets being more than $1.5bn greater than the market assess the potential impact of a range of possible outcomes.
For Catcher and capitalisation of the group.
Kraken, we determined that the calculation was most sensitive to assumptions relating to the oil price.
We calculated the degree to which the long-term oil When an impairment review is triggered, within the impairment review calculations price assumption would need to reduce further before an impairment arises there are significant judgements in relation to assumptions such as: on these assets and considered the likelihood of this arising in isolation from long-term oil price : other changes in assumptions: and reserve estimates: challenged management on the inclusion of all appropriate assets and production profiles: liabilities in the cash-generating units and in particular given that the cost profiles and escalation applied: and recoverable amount is determined based on a fair value less costs of disposal, discount rates.
the inclusion or exclusion of certain tax related balances and agreed that all relevant balances had been included.
We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the judgements and assumptions management are required to make in determining None of the items noted above resulted in a change to the impairment charge whether there are any impairment triggers or impairments.
recorded by management Refer to Notes 2.1, 2.2 and 2.4 to the financial statements.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 Independent auditors report to the members of Cairn Energy PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited We focused on this area because on 22 January 2014 the Group received In assessing the potential impact of the request for information by the Indian tax a request for information from the Indian tax authorities in respect of authorities we: amendments introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which seek to tax read the correspondence received by the Group from the Indian tax authorities: prior year transactions under legislation applied retrospectively.
At the same understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis time the Group received an order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India.
for any claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedent: discussed with management the advice and action they had taken with Although there have been developments over the course of 2014, no conclusion regards to the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents: has been reached by the Indian tax authorities in relation to this enquiry and discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the groups legal therefore management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of advisers: and an obligation arising and whether there is a need to recognise a provision sought advice from our own tax experts.
We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was Refer to Note 6.2 to the financial statements.
reasonable based on the work we performed, in particular: managements view that no provision for tax should be made at this time: the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report: and the impact of the restriction on sale of Cairn India shares on the future funding requirements for the Group.
We also considered whether this ongoing enquiry would have any impact on the carrying value of the investment in Cairn India Limited of $702.6m.
We noted that while the group are restricted from selling the investment, this is a restriction directly on them and not all market participants, and therefore it does not affect the fair value of the underlying investment, which is the basis on which it is carried in the consolidated balance sheet.
Going concern We focused on this area as the Group is in the exploration and development phase In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption used in and is therefore reliant on having sufficient funding to progress their asset portfolio.
preparing the financial statements, we: reviewed the cash flow requirements of the Group over the next 18 months As the group currently has no significant cash-generating assets in operation, based on budgets and forecasts: there is a finite cash resource to fund ongoing activities and therefore we have understood what forecast expenditure is committed and what could be focused on whether there are sufficient cash resources in place to allow the considered discretionary: group to continue as a going concern.
considered the liquidity of existing assets on the balance sheet, including the Cairn India investment: In addition, the restriction on selling the remaining Cairn India shares noted reviewed the terms associated with the debt agreement and the amount of above means the Group is currently unable to access the value in this investment the facility available for drawdown: and to fund operations.
considered potential downside upside scenarios and the resultant impact on available funds During 2014, the group negotiated a debt facility to partially fund the development of Catcher and Kraken, and are required to meet a liquidity test to Our conclusion on going concern is below.
allow them to drawdown this facility.
Cairn are also planning to drill exploration and appraisal wells in North West Europe and North West Africa over the next 12-18 months which will be funded from existing cash resources.
Other tax judgements We focused on this area because Cairn operates in a complex tax environment Our assessment of the tax judgements was made on the basis of: comprising a number of jurisdictions with specific tax rules relating to oil and gas our tax knowledge from similar circumstances and past experience: activities.
The rules which have the most significant impact on the results are in our understanding of the Group and the relevant transactions: relation to North Sea field allowances and UK reinvestment relief.
As a result, reviewing correspondence with tax authorities and or evidence from similar management have to make significant judgements regarding current and precedent: and deferred tax positions.
Refer to Note 4.6 to the financial statements.
Specifically, in relation to corporate and deferred tax positions we: considered the information available in relation to the Groups open tax positions and assessed the associated level of provisioning.
We found that management had appropriately included the relevant information and calculated the provision accordingly: assessed managements consideration of the impact of the Groups future plans and current legislation specifically related to oil and gas on the recognition of deferred tax and found it to be reasonable.
In particular, we assessed the treatment of field allowances relating to Catcher and Kraken awarded at the time of Field Development Plan approval and found it to be in line with industry practice: and we assessed the basis on which deferred tax assets recognised are expected to be recovered and agreed with managements assessment.
100 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend they will do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance statement set out on pages 63 to 72 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 72, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 73, as required by provision C. 3.8 of We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 Independent auditors report to the members of Cairn Energy PLC continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Michael Timar Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 9 March 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
102 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Contents 104 Group Income Statement 104 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 105 Group Balance Sheet 106 Group Statement of Cash Flows 107 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 108 Section 1 Basis of Preparation 108 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 110 Section 2 Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill 111 2.1 Intangible Exploration Appraisal Assets 113 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment Development Producing Assets 114 2.3 Capital Commitments 114 2.4 Intangible Assets Goodwill 115 2.5 Sensitivity Analysis 116 Section 3 Financial Assets and Working Capital 116 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets 117 3.2 Net Funds 118 3.3 Income Tax Assets 118 3.4 Other Receivables 118 3.5 Trade and Other Payables 119 3.6 Financial Instruments 120 Section 4 Results for the Year 120 4.1 Segmental Analysis 122 4.2 Pre-award Costs 122 4.3 Net Operating Expenses 123 4.4 Finance Income 123 4.5 Finance Costs 123 4.6 Taxation on Loss 126 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share 127 Section 5 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 127 5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves 128 5.2 Capital Management 128 5.3 Staff Costs 129 5.4 Share-based Payments 130 5.5 Directors Emoluments and Remuneration of Key Management Personnel 130 5.6 Guarantees 131 Section 6 Post Balance Sheet Events 131 6.1 Sale of 10% Working Interest in Catcher 132 Company Balance Sheet 133 Company Statement of Cash Flows 134 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 135 Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 135 7.1 Basis of Preparation 135 7.2 Net funds 135 7.3 Other Receivables 135 7.4 Trade and Other Payables 136 7.5 Financial Instruments 136 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries 137 7.7 Capital Management 137 7.8 Related Party Transactions 138 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements 138 Appendix 1 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings 139 Appendix 2 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies 141 Appendix 3 Share-based Payments 142 Appendix 4 Auditors Remuneration Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103
