C1 Independent auditors report to the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Opinion on financial statements of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Movements in Equity and the related notes 1 to 62.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement in section A4 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 90 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 90 16 12 2014 10:43 C Independent auditors report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment provisioning for financial assets The assessment of the Groups calculation of provisions for We confirmed that impairment models are working as intended.
impairment losses against purchased and originated loans and We challenged the appropriateness of managements key receivables is complex and requires management to make assumptions used in the impairment calculations for loans significant judgements regarding the identification of impaired and receivables.
This involved assessing key assumptions accounts, expectations of future cash flows arising from for appropriateness in the context of external data and prior customers and the realisation of any security held.
Sensitivity analysis was also performed in relation to the key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias.
We used internal IT specialists to test key controls over the loan administration systems and the manner in which data is extracted from these systems into the models used to determine impairment.
revenue recognition Revenue recognition and specifically the application of the We confirmed that the revenue recognition models are working requirement in IAS 39 - Financial Instruments to recognise as intended.
We challenged managements assumptions in income on purchased and originated loans using an effective respect of cash flow estimates, focusing on the timing and interest rate method is a complex area, requiring management to level of early redemptions and assessed whether the revenue make significant judgements relating to the expected life of each recognition policies adopted were in compliance with IFRS.
This loan and the related cash flows which could significantly impact involved assessing key assumptions for appropriateness in the the level of income recognised in any given period.
context of external data and prior experience.
We used internal IT specialists to test key controls over the loan administration systems and the manner in which data is extracted from these systems into the models used to determine revenue recognition.
Retirement benefit obligation valuation Determining the key assumptions used to calculate the present We evaluated the appropriateness of the principal actuarial value of the retirement benefit obligation requires significant assumptions used in the calculation of the retirement benefit management judgement in relation to inflation rates, discount obligation, as set out in note 53 using market data from our rates and mortality rates.
in-house actuarial specialists detailing the range of assumptions used as at 30 September 2014.
We also performed sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out in section B2.1.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 91 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 91 16 12 2014 10:43 C Independent auditors report Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.2 million 2013: 7.9 million, which is 7.5% 2013: 7.5% of pre-tax profit and represents 1.0% 2013: 0.9% of equity.
Individual components of the Group are audited to a lower level of materiality, none of which exceeded 50% of Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 184,000 2013: 156,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the principal trading subsidiaries within the Groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the Groups profit before tax and net assets.
All entities are managed, controlled and audited from the head office.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work over the principal trading subsidiaries comprised statutory audits which were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, lower than that for the Group as described above.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 92 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 92 16 12 2014 10:43 C Independent auditors report Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, in section B5, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
PETER BIRCH Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 25 November 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 93 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 93 16 12 2014 10:43 C Independent auditors report GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
