FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the shareholders of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Opinion on financial statements of Perpetual Income & Growth Investment Trust plc In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law, United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors Report on page 20 that the Company is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Valuation of investments We documented and assessed the design and implementation of controls in place to value investment The investment portfolio at 1 billion is portfolio.
the most quantitatively significant amount in the balance sheet and is the We agreed the valuation of 100% of the listed investment main driver of the Companys portfolio to independent pricing sources: performance and net asset value.
In order to confirm investments are actively traded, we There is a risk investments within the verified trading activity and volume of listed investments portfolio may not be actively traded or held around year end.
that prices quoted may not be reflective We assessed prices for unquoted investments, as of fair value.
determined by the pricing committee, for reasonableness and agreed the basis to third party documentation.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the shareholders of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc continued RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Ownership of investments We documented and assessed the design and implementation of controls over ownership of investments The investment portfolio at 1 billion is to confirm that there were no issues with controls in place the most quantitatively significant over safekeeping of assets with the custodian.
amount in the balance sheet and is the main driver of the Companys We tested the ownership of investments by verifying performance and net asset value.
100% of the portfolio to an independent confirmation from the custodian.
There is a risk that the assets recorded may not represent the property of the We reviewed a report prepared on the design and Company.
operation of controls at the custodian to confirm that there were no issues with the controls in place over safekeeping of assets at the custodian had been identified.
Calculation of performance fee We documented and assessed the design and implementation of controls over the calculation of The performance fee is accrued when performance fees.
the performance of the Company exceeds a targeted performance of FTSE We checked the performance fee calculation to obtain All-Share Index on a high-water mark assurance that the performance fee in the current year is basis.
There is a risk that the in agreement with the Investment Management computation of the performance fee Agreement.
Revenue recognition due to fraud We documented and assessed the design and implementation of controls over revenue recognition and Dividend income from equity managements monitoring of accuracy and completeness investments are accounted for on an of revenue.
Interest income from fixed investments is recognised on an For a sample of investments, we obtained ex-dividend effective yield basis.
There is a risk that dates and rates for dividends declared during the year and revenue recognised in the financial agreed the amounts to the dividend entitlements earned statements may be misstated or not and the general ledger.
recognised in the correct period.
We agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank statements.
We performed cut-off testing around the balance sheet date by agreeing the ex-dividend dates and rates of a sample of accrued dividends to independent data and checked for subsequent receipts.
We obtained the corporate action listing for the year, and for a sample of such actions, reviewed management assessment and underlying information according to the corporate action notification.
We reviewed the treatment of the recognition criteria for any special dividends or other income received in the year.
The Audit Committee consideration of these risks is set out on pages 28 and 29.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
36 FINANCIAL We determined materiality for the Company to be 8,960,000, which has been determined using 1% of Shareholders funds.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 179,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Company and its environment, including controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement for the Company was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As the accounting is performed by service organisations, we obtained an understanding of how the Company uses service organisations in its operations and evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls at the Company that relate to the services provided by service organisations.
We reviewed the latest reports on internal controls from the service organisations and contacted them directly to obtain specific information we needed to conduct our audit.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the shareholders of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc continued report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stuart McLaren Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 4 June 2014 Electronic Publication The annual financial report is published on www.
co. uk investmenttrusts which is the Managers website.
The work carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
