INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC We have audited the financial statements of Personal Assets Trust PLC for the year ended 30 April 2014 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group and Company Changes in Equity, the Group and Company Statement of Cash Flow and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 25, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Companys annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2014 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
26 Personal Assets Trust PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We have identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team: the valuation of the Groups investments.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements, if any, on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in forming our audit opinion in the Auditors Report.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined materiality for the group to be 5.73 million which is 1% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the group should be 50% of materiality, namely 2.86 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in the financial statements did not exceed our materiality level.
We have agreed to report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of 287k, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our response to the risk identified above was as follows: we agreed 100% of year end prices for quoted investments to an independent source.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF, IN OUR OPINION: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
UNDER THE LISTING RULES WE ARE REQUIRED TO REVIEW: the Directors statement, set out on page 24 in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Susan Dawe Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Edinburgh 5 June 2014 28 Personal Assets Trust PLC
