4 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 2014 What an audit of financial statements involves Report on the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Our opinion Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys amounts and disclosures in the financial statements affairs as at 30 April 2014 and of its profit and cash sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial flows for the year then ended: statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the as adopted by the European Union: and Companys circumstances and have been consistently have been prepared in accordance with the applied and adequately disclosed: requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
What we have audited In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material The financial statements, which are prepared by inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, comprise: to identify any information that is apparently materially Balance sheet as at 30 April 2014: incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing statement of comprehensive income for the year the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material then ended: misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the the statement of cash flows for the year then ended: implications for our report.
the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and Overview of our audit approach the notes to the financial statements, which include a Materiality summary of significant accounting policies and other We set certain thresholds for materiality.
helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of The financial reporting framework that has been misstatements, both individually and on the financial applied in their preparation is applicable law and statements as a whole.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined In applying the financial reporting framework, the materiality for the financial statements as a whole to Directors have made a number of subjective judgements, be 2.28m.
This represents approximately 5% of profit for example in respect of significant accounting before tax.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting 150,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Overview of the scope of the audit financial statements and are identified as audited.
In establishing the overall approach to the audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the engagement team.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 70 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 Areas of particular audit focus In our audit, we tested and examined information, using In preparing the financial statements, the Directors sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we made a number of subjective judgements, for example considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us in respect of significant accounting estimates that to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through involved making assumptions and considering future testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily procedures or a combination of both.
focused our work in these areas by assessing the We considered the following areas to be those that Directors judgements against available evidence, required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a forming our own judgements, and evaluating the complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our disclosures in the financial statements.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 63.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and existence of investments The investment portfolio is comprised of listed debt and equity investments and a small number of unlisted.
We tested the valuation of the investment We focused on this area because portfolio as follows: investments represent the principal element of the financial statements for listed debt and equities we agreed the valuation to independent third party sources: and for unlisted debt and equities, we review the support prepared by the investment manager over the unquoted investments to assess whether the investments have been included at fair value.
We tested the existence of investments held within the investment portfolio to an independent custodian confirmation.
Risk of management We tested a sample of journal entries to determine whether adjustments override of internal controls were supported by evidence and appropriately authorised.
ISAs UK and Ireland require that We have built an element of unpredictability into our detailed testing.
we consider management override of controls.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on pages 68 and 69, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 71 4 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 2014 continued Corporate governance statement Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companyies Act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to In our opinion: the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK the information given in the Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing Directors Report for the financial year for which the to report having performed our review.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with On page 63 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code the financial statements: and Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and be audited has been properly prepared in accordance understandable and provides the information necessary with the Companies Act 2006. for members to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On page 63, as required by Adequacy of accounting records and information C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the and explanations received significant issues that it considered in relation to the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report financial statements, and how they were addressed.
to you if, in our opinion: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or the statement given by the Directors is materially adequate accounting records have not been kept, or inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company returns adequate for our audit have not been received acquired in the course of performing our audit: or from branches not visited by us: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the financial statements and the part of the Directors the Audit Committee does not appropriately address Remuneration Report to be audited are not in matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other information in the Annual Report We have no exceptions to report arising from Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to this responsibility.
you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Directors remuneration materially inconsistent with the information in the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report audited financial statements: or to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 72 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Allan McGrath Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 17 July 2014 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 73
