Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 187 Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: of Provident Financial plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated and parent company statement of cash flows, the consolidated and parent company statement of changes in shareholders equity, the statement of accounting policies, the financial and capital risk management section and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors report on page 108 that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of material misstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Provident Financial plc 188 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment losses against loans We tested the key controls relating to the identification and recording of impairment losses and the and receivables Consumer Credit Division, mechanical accuracy of the models used to calculate impairment.
This included using our in-house Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn IT specialists to test the data flows from source systems to the models in order to determine whether the data used to calculate impairment provisions was complete and accurate.
For each of the models, The assessment of the groups calculation of we have understood the complexities and key judgements and have tailored our work to address impairment losses against loans and receivables these accordingly.
is complex and requires management to make significant judgements regarding the level and timing We challenged the appropriateness of the key assumptions used in the impairment models, of future cash flows to be received from customers.
including specifically the identification of impaired accounts and the estimation of future cash Further detail in respect of these assumptions is flows.
This involved analysis of the groups historical cash collection experience and challenging set out in the critical judgements and uncertainties the appropriateness of those key assumptions in the context of internal and external factors section of the accounting policies note on page 140. affecting the business, including operational changes in the Consumer Credit Division and current macroeconomic trends.
We tested the key controls relating to the recording of revenue which focused on the flow of data Revenue recognition Consumer Credit Division, from source systems into the revenue models and automated IT controls, with support from our Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn in-house IT specialists, to determine whether the data used was complete and accurate.
We also Revenue recognition and specifically the application tested the mechanical accuracy of the models which are used to determine revenue and the related of the requirement in IAS 39 to recognise income on controls.
For each of the models, we have understood the complexities and key judgements and have loans using an effective interest rate EIR method tailored our work to address these accordingly.
It requires management to make significant judgements relating to the expected We challenged the assumptions used in the recognition of revenue, including the impact of early life of each loan and the timing of cash flows with redemptions by assessing whether the revenue recognition policies adopted were in compliance with the accounting entries generated through the use IFRS.
We considered the assumptions in respect of future behavioural cash flows by reference to the of complex spreadsheet models.
Further detail groups historical experience and macroeconomic factors including inflation rates, benefit changes in respect of these assumptions is set out in the and utility prices.
critical judgements and uncertainties section of the accounting policies note on page 140.
Defined benefit pension scheme asset We used our in-house actuarial specialists to assist us in evaluating the appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the retirement benefit obligation, as set out Determining the key assumptions used to calculate in note 19.
This involved benchmarking managements assumptions against those used by a range the present value of the 56.0m retirement of organisations as at 31 December 2014 and considering the consistency of those judgements benefit obligation requires significant management compared to prior year.
judgement in relation to inflation rates, discount rates and mortality rates.
Provision for taxation liabilities Utilising the experience of our in-house taxation specialists, we evaluated the completeness of the groups taxation liabilities, including the appropriateness of the key assumptions relating to the likely The group is required to exercise judgement in quantum of any liabilities and the probability of them occurring in order to assess whether the level the assessment of the key assumptions used of provision is appropriate.
We also reviewed correspondence with tax authorities to determine to determine the taxation liabilities, including the whether the liabilities considered by management were complete.
probability of liabilities arising and the quantum of any such liabilities.
Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 189 Independent auditors report continued Moneybarn fair value adjustments In August 2014, the group acquired the entire share We performed a detailed review of the acquisition accounting against the requirements of IAS 38 capital of Duncton Group Limited for 120m, as set and IFRS 13, which involved an independent challenge of managements identification of intangibles out in note 10.
On acquisition, IFRS 3 requires assets on acquisition.
and liabilities acquired to be recognised at their fair In respect of the broker relationship intangible we: values.
Intangible assets must also be recognised at fair value if they are separable or arise from other challenged the key judgements in respect of the valuation of the intangible broker relationships, contractual rights.
related to the forecast cash flows, the discount rate and its estimated useful economic life with reference to managements historical budgeting accuracy and external economic data.
The determination of fair values requires the exercise of significant judgement and our work In relation to the loan book valuation we: in this respect was focused on two key areas: tested the underlying controls used to calculate the provision, using our in-house data specialists the recognition of the 75.0m broker relationship to review the scripts used to generate the cash flow model: and intangible which was determined by using challenged the assumptions used in the calculation with reference to historical data.
This required the exercise of management judgement in the estimation of the forecast future cash flows, useful economic life and selection of an appropriate discount rate: and the 3.8m adjustment to recognise the loan book at fair value which required judgement to be applied in respect of the estimated discounted future cash flows to be derived from unimpaired loans at the acquisition date.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee on pages 97 and 98.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Provident Financial plc 190 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 16.8m 2013: 14.7m, which is 7.5% 2013: 7.5%, normalised by adding back one-off restructuring costs of pre-tax profit as set out on page 130.
The increase in our materiality level has been driven solely by an increased in reported profit before tax.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 336,000 2013: 297,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our audit work on the principal trading subsidiaries comprised statutory audits which were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 300,000 to 15m.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, our group audit scope focused on all of the principal trading subsidiaries within the groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the groups profit before tax.
Two of the segments are audited directly by the group audit team and the other is audited by a separate component team, under the supervision of the group team who have maintained continual communication throughout the audit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Opinion on other matters prescribed In our opinion: by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited pages 120 to 128 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 191 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our in the Annual Report opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Provident Financial plc 192 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for of directors and auditor the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Scope of the audit sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material of the financial statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Peter Birch FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester, United Kingdom 24 February 2015 Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 193 Shareholder information 194 I nformation for shareholders
