Statement of directors European Embedded Value responsibilities Independent Financial statements EEV basis results auditors report Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 309 Independent auditors report to Prudential plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Opinions and conclusions arising Respective responsibilities of The purpose of this report and from our audit directors and auditor restrictions on its use by persons As explained more fully in the Directors other than the Company Our opinion on the EEV basis Responsibilities statement set out on This report is made solely to the Company supplementary information is page 308, the directors have accepted in accordance with the terms of our unmodified responsibility for the preparation of the engagement.
Our audit work has been We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information on the undertaken so that we might state to the supplementary information of Prudential EEV basis in accordance with the Company those matters we have been plc the Company for the year ended EEV Principles.
engaged to state in this report and for no 31 December 2014 set out in the EEV basis Our responsibility is to audit, and other purpose.
To the fullest extent results and Notes on the EEV basis results express an opinion on, the supplementary permitted by law, we do not accept or pages.
The EEV basis supplementary information in accordance with the terms of assume responsibility to anyone other than information should be read in conjunction our engagement and in accordance with the Company for our audit work, for this with the Group financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion, the EEV basis and Ireland.
Those standards require us to supplementary information of the comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Company for the year ended 31 December Ethical Standards for Auditors.
2014 has been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Scope of an audit of financial European Embedded Value Principles statements performed in accordance issued in May 2004 by the European CFO with ISAs UK and Ireland Forum as supplemented by the Additional A description of the scope of an audit of Rees Aronson Guidance on European Embedded Value financial statements is provided on our for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Disclosures issued in October 2005 website at www.
com uk Chartered Accountants together the EEV Principles using the auditscopeother2013 This report is made London methodology and assumptions set out in subject to important explanations the Notes on the EEV basis results.
regarding our responsibilities, as published 9 March 2015 This report is made solely to the on that website, which are incorporated Company in accordance with the terms of into this report as if set out in full and our engagement.
Our audit work has been should be read to provide an undertaken so that we might state to the understanding of the purpose of this Company those matters we have been report, the work we have undertaken and engaged to state in this report and for no the basis of our opinions.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
