Statement of directors responsibilities Financial statements Independent auditors report Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 271 Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only Opinions and conclusions arising Assessing whether the valuation Our response: We used our own process is appropriately designed and from our audit actuarial specialists to assist us in captures relevant valuation inputs: performing our audit procedures in this 1.
Our opinion on the financial area, which included: Testing associated controls in respect statements is unmodified of the valuation process: a Consideration of the appropriateness of We have audited the financial statements the assumptions used in the stochastic of Prudential plc for the year ended Performing our own independent price models for the valuation of the US checks from our own pricing services 31 December 2014 set out on pages 123 to variable annuity guarantees.
In our opinion: using external quotes for liquid included assumptions for investment positions and, where available, for The financial statements give a true and mix and projected investment returns illiquid positions: fair view of the state of the Groups and considered by reference to company of the parent companys affairs as at Assessing pricing model methodologies specific and industry data and for future 31 December 2014 and of the Groups and assumptions against industry growth rates considered by reference profit for the year then ended: practice and valuation guidelines: to market trends and market volatility.
We assessed assumptions of The Group financial statements have Evaluating the testing performed by policyholder behaviour by reference been properly prepared in accordance the Group in order to identify any to relevant company historical and with International Financial Reporting impairment in relation to loans: and industry data.
Standards as adopted by the European performing our own assessment of loan Union: files to understand the performance b Consideration of the appropriateness of the loans.
We obtained an of the mortality and credit risk The parent company financial understanding of existing and assumptions used in the valuation of the statements have been properly prospective investee company UK annuity liabilities by reference to prepared in accordance with UK cash flows to understand whether loans company and industry data on historical Accounting Standards: and can be serviced or refinancing may be mortality experience and expectations The financial statements have been required and considered the impact on of future mortality.
Our work on the prepared in accordance with the impairment testing performed.
credit risk assumptions primarily requirements of the Companies Act considered the appropriateness of the 2006 and, as regards the Group We also assessed whether the Groups methodology and assumptions by financial statements, Article 4 disclosures in relation to the valuation reference to industry practice of the IAS Regulation.
of investments are compliant with the and our expectation derived from relevant accounting requirements, in market experience.
Our assessment of risks of particular the sensitivity of the valuations Other key audit procedures included material misstatement adopted to alternative outcomes.
assessing the Groups methodology for In arriving at our audit opinion above on the calculating the insurance liabilities and their financial statements the risks of material Policyholder Liabilities analysis of the movements in insurance misstatement that had the greatest effect 309,539 million liabilities during the year, including on our audit were as follows: Refer to page 81 Audit Committee report, consideration of whether the movements page 133 accounting policy and pages are in line with the assumptions adopted Investments 337,454 million 204 to 219 financial disclosures by the Group, our understanding of Refer to page 81 Audit Committee report, The risk: The Group has significant developments in the business and our page 136 accounting policy and pages insurance liabilities representing expectation derived from market 182 to 203 financial disclosures 87 per cent of the Groups total liabilities.
We considered the validity of The risk The Groups investment This is an area that involves significant managements liability adequacy testing portfolio represents 91 per cent of the judgement over uncertain future which is a key test performed to check that Groups total assets.
outcomes, mainly the ultimate total the liabilities are adequate in the context The substantial majority of the portfolio settlement value of long term policyholder of expected experience.
Our work on the does not involve significant judgement as liabilities.
Economic assumptions, such as liability adequacy test includes assessing prices are readily available from liquid investment return and associated discount the reasonableness of the projected cash market sources.
rates, and operating assumptions such flows and challenging the assumptions The areas that involved significant audit as mortality and persistency are the key adopted in the context of company and effort and judgement in 2014 were the inputs used to estimate these long term industry experience data and specific valuation of illiquid positions within the liabilities.
The valuation of the guarantees product features.
financial investment portfolio representing in the US variable annuity business is a We considered whether the Groups 2 per cent of the Groups total assets.
complex exercise as it involves exercising disclosures in relation to the assumptions These included unlisted equity, unlisted significant judgement over the relationship used in the calculation of insurance debt securities, derivatives and loans such between the investment return attaching liabilities are compliant with the relevant as commercial mortgage loans and bridge to these products and the guarantees accounting requirements, in particular loans.
For these positions a reliable third contractually provided to policyholders the sensitivities of these assumptions to party price was not readily available and and the likely policyholder behaviour in alternative scenarios and inputs.
therefore involved the application of expert response to changes in investment judgement in the valuations adopted.
The valuation of the Our response We used our own insurance liabilities in relation to the UK valuation specialists and pricing services to annuity business requires the exercise of assist us in performing our audit significant judgement over the setting of procedures in this area, which included: mortality and credit risk assumptions.
272 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only continued Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC 3.
Our application of materiality and The Group team in the UK covered the 5,930 million an overview of the scope of our audit UK Group Head office operations.
Refer to page 81 Audit Committee report, The materiality for the Group financial Component auditors performed the audit page 135 accounting policy and pages statements as a whole was set at work in the remaining locations.
220 to 224 financial disclosures 307 million determined with reference The Group audit team instructed The risk DAC represents 1.6 per cent to a benchmark of IFRS shareholders component auditors as to the significant of the total assets and involves judgement equity of which it represents 3 per cent.
areas to be covered, including the relevant in the identification of, and the extent to We consider IFRS shareholders equity to risks detailed above and the information to which, certain acquisition costs can be be the most appropriate benchmark as it be reported back.
The Group audit team deferred, and assessment of recoverability represents the residual interest that can be approved the component materialities, of the asset.
The DAC associated with the ascribed to shareholders after policyholder which were set as 110 million for key US business, which represents 87 per cent assets and corresponding liabilities have reporting components in Asia and of total DAC, involves the greatest been accounted for.
140 million for all other key reporting judgement in terms of measurement and We report to the Group audit components listed above, having regard recoverability.
The amortisation and committee any corrected or uncorrected to the size and risk profile of the Group.
recoverability assessment of the US DAC identified misstatements exceeding The Group audit team visited 10 asset is related to the achieved and 15 million in addition to other identified component locations in insurance projected future profit profile.
This involves misstatements that warrant reporting on operations in UK, US, Hong Kong, making assumptions about future qualitative grounds.
Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Korea and investment returns and the consequential We subjected the Groups operations Vietnam, fund management operations in impact on fee income.
to audits for Group reporting purposes M&G and Prudential Capital.
This included Our response We used our own as follows: an assessment of the audit risk and actuarial specialists to assist us in strategy.
Video and telephone conference Audits for Group reporting purposes in performing our audit procedures in this meetings were also held with these relation to the financial information of area, which included component auditors and certain others that the insurance operations in the UK, US, were not physically visited.
At these visits i evaluating the appropriateness of the Hong Kong, Indonesia, Singapore, and meetings, the findings reported to the Groups deferral policy by comparing it Malaysia, Korea, Vietnam and fund Group audit team were discussed in more against the requirements of relevant management operations in the UK detail, and any further work required by accounting standards: M&G.
These audits covered the Group audit team was then performed 92 per cent of total Group revenue: by the component auditor ii evaluating whether costs are deferred 88 per cent of Group profit before The Senior Statutory Auditor, in in accordance with the Groups deferral tax: 91 per cent of total Group assets conjunction with other senior staff in the policy: and and 89 per cent of Group Group team, also regularly attended shareholders equity.
Business Unit audit committee meetings iii a ssessing the calculations performed Audits of account balances that at a regional level for Asia and including the appropriateness of the correspond to the risks of material participated in meetings with local assumptions used in determining the misstatement identified above in management to understand at first hand profit profile and the extent of the relation to Prudential Capital and the the key risks and audit issues at a associated adjustment necessary to the insurance operations in China, Taiwan component level which may affect the DAC asset.
Our work in this area and Thailand.
The account balances Group financial statements.
included assessing the reasonableness audited are investments, policyholder of assumptions such as the projected liabilities and deferred acquisition costs.
Our opinion on other matters investment return by comparing against These operations covered 2 per cent prescribed by the Companies Act the Groups investment portfolio mix of total Group revenue: 4 per cent of 2006 is unmodified and market return data.
Group profit before tax: 2 per cent In our opinion: We also considered the adequacy of the of total Group assets and 1 per cent The part of the Directors Remuneration Groups disclosures about the degree of of Group shareholders equity.
Report to be audited has been properly estimation involved in the valuation of DAC.
prepared in accordance with the The remaining operations cover 6 per cent of total Group revenue, 8 per cent of Group Companies Act 2006: and profit before tax and 7 per cent of total The information given in the Strategic Group assets, none of which individually Report and the Directors Report for the represented more than 4 per cent of any of financial year for which the financial total Group revenue, Group profit before statements are prepared is consistent tax or total Group assets.
For the remaining with the financial statements.
operations, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these operations.
Financial statements Independent auditors report Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 273 We have nothing to report in respect Scope of report and responsibilities of the matters on which we are As explained more fully in the Directors required to report by exception Responsibilities Statement set out on page Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are 270, the Directors are responsible for the required to report to you if, based on the preparation of the financial statements and knowledge we acquired during our audit, for being satisfied that they give a true and we have identified other information fair view.
A description of the scope of an in the annual report that contains a audit of financial statements is provided on material inconsistency with either that the Financial Reporting Councils website knowledge or the financial statements, at www.
a material misstatement of fact, or that This report is made solely to the Companys is otherwise misleading.
members as a body and is subject to In particular, we are required to report important explanations and disclaimers to you if: regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk We have identified material auditscopeukco2014a which are inconsistencies between the knowledge incorporated into this report as if set out we acquired during our audit and the in full and should be read to provide an directors statement that they consider understanding of the purpose of this that the annual report and financial report, the work we have undertaken and statements taken as a whole is fair, the basis of our opinions.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to Rees Aronson the audit committee.
Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, required to report to you if, in our opinion: Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Adequate accounting records have not London been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 9 March 2015 been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The directors statement, set out on page 90, in relation to going concern: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 88 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
