Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit.
The primary areas of estimation arise in: The groups assessment of whether payments made to newly recruited investment managers under contractual 1 Our opinion on the financial arrangements represent payments for the acquisition of client relationship intangibles which would be capitalised statements is unmodified or payments in respect of providing ongoing services to Rathbones which would be expensed.
In forming this We have audited the financial statements of Rathbone judgment, the group has determined that the appropriate Brothers Plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on accounting policy is to capitalise payments made to pages 86 to 164.
In our opinion: investment managers relating to client relationships the financial statements give a true and fair view of the acquired during the 12 month period after the conclusion state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as of any non-compete arrangements between an investment at 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year manager and their previous employer.
Further judgment then ended: is applied in exceptional circumstances where management consider that the investment manager is introducing client the group financial statements have been properly prepared relationships that previously existed beyond the 12 month in accordance with International Financial Reporting period.
In such circumstances, where management believe Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as it is appropriate to do so, the period during which such adopted by the EU : payments are capitalised is extended beyond 12 months.
the parent company financial statements have been The fair values of the client relationship intangibles properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted purchased during the year as part of the acquisition of the by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions private client and charity investment management business of the Companies Act 2006: and of Jupiter Asset Management Limited.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance The groups assessment of whether the ongoing benefits with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, offered by the capitalised client relationship intangibles as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the are greater than their carrying value or whether there is an IAS Regulation.
The groups estimation of the useful economic lives of the client relationships over which these intangible assets 2 Our assessment of risks of are subsequently amortised ranges typically between material misstatement 10 and 15 years using a straight line method.
The decisions made by the group in respect of the useful economic life In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial may make a material difference to the financial statements statements the risks of material misstatement that had the and this is considered to be a significant audit risk.
The greatest effect on our audit were as follows: sensitivity of this estimate is disclosed in the critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimated Recognition and impairment of client relationship uncertainty in note 2 to the financial statements.
intangibles: 95,720,000 Refer to page 75 audit committee report, page 95 accounting policy and pages 98 and 113 to 114 financial disclosures.
The risk: Individually purchased client relationships are initially recognised at cost with those acquired as part of a business combination initially recognised at fair value.
The key judgments on which our audit concentrated in this area were the classification of the individually purchased client relationships, impairment and the useful economic life of the intangible assets.
82 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Recognition Valuation of defined benefit pension and impairment of client relationship intangibles: 95,720,000 obligation: 13,710,000 Our response: To assess the appropriateness of the above Refer to page 76 audit committee report, page 97 accounting accounting policy we used our industry knowledge and policy and pages 117 to 121 financial disclosures.
experience and considered the criteria for the recognition of payments to secure an asset management contract as an The risk: The parent company has recognised a pension asset in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
In this area our deficit of 13,710,000 as at 31 December 2014.
The valuation audit procedures included: of the defined benefit pension deficit is an important judgment as this balance is volatile and impacts the parent We assessed the appropriateness of the 12 month period companys distributable reserves.
The group obtained advice during which payments are capitalised and performed from actuarial specialists in order to calculate this deficit testing of a risk-based sample of newly recognised client and uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect relationship intangibles.
This testing assessed whether such of long term trends and market conditions to determine costs were only capitalised when they fell within 12 months the value based on the groups expectations of the future.
of the conclusion of any non-compete arrangements and As a result, the actual surplus or deficit realised by the group that such costs related to relationships already held by may be significantly different to that recognised on the balance the investment manager.
In respect of those instances sheet since small changes to the assumptions used in the where payments were capitalised beyond the 12 month calculation materially affect the valuation and may result in period, we assessed the detailed breakdown of the client the recognition of a deficit materially different from the relationship intangibles that had been capitalised outside liability recognised at the year end.
of the 12 month period and for each significant addition we challenged whether these relationships were held by Our response: With the support of our own actuarial the investment manager in a previous employment and specialists, we challenged key assumptions and estimated obtained documentation to evidence the relationship.
inputs used in the calculation of the pension deficit.
The key assumptions and estimates we tested included the discount We assessed the appropriateness of the fair value of rate, RPI inflation, salary growth, life expectancy and expected the client relationship intangibles purchased in the return on equities that were applied to the valuation.
This acquisition of the private client and charity investment included a comparison of key assumptions against externally management business of Jupiter Asset Management derived data and our benchmark ranges for similar schemes.
Limited and challenged managements assumptions We have also considered the adequacy of the groups such as the discount rate and the funds under disclosure in respect of the deficit and the assumptions management growth rate.
used in note 29 to the financial statements.
In considering the adequacy of the impairment assessment performed by the group to support the carrying valuation of client relationship intangibles, we performed testing which included challenging the assumptions used, based on our knowledge of the client and experience of the industry, and an assessment of the population of capitalised client relationships to ensure that client relationship intangibles relating to closed accounts and those clients with balances that do not generate income for the group are no longer recognised on the balance sheet.
Our consideration of the appropriateness of the useful economic lives of the client relationships and amortisation periods included performing an analysis of the length of the client relationships held by the group with reference to the historic gross outflows of funds under management.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure in respect of intangible assets in note 25 to the financial statements.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 83 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We considered the appropriateness of this with regard to the application of published guidance to the calculation of Accounting for acquisitions distributable reserves and assessed the legal opinion obtained Refer to page 75 audit committee report, page 91 accounting by the group.
We have also considered the adequacy of the policy and pages 98 and 140 to 141 financial disclosures.
groups disclosure in respect of the acquisitions in note 36 to the financial statements.
The risk: During the year ended 31 December 2014, the group made two significant acquisitions part of Deutsche Asset & Wealth Managements London-based investment management business and the private client and charity investment 3 Our application of materiality and an management business of Jupiter Asset Management Limited.
overview of the scope of our audit This is considered to be a significant risk to the group as a result of the complex judgments involved, including: whether The materiality for the group financial statements as a they should be accounted for as a business combination under whole was set at 2.5 million, determined with reference to IFRS 3 Business Combinations or as a purchase of client a benchmark of group profit before tax, adjusted to exclude relationships under IAS 18 Revenue: and the accounting for this years gain on disposal of financial securities as disclosed any deferred and or contingent consideration.
The accounting in note 8 and the legal settlement made during the year as of the Jupiter Asset Management Limited acquisition under disclosed in note 11, of which it represents 5%.
We report IFRS 3 and the Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected acquisition under IAS 18 results in different presentations on identified misstatements exceeding 125,000, in addition the balance sheet in respect of intangible assets purchased to other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on client relationship intangibles and goodwill and in the income qualitative grounds.
statement in respect of remuneration expense.
The accounting under IFRS 3 also results in significant judgment in the All six of the groups reporting components were subjected to calculation of the fair values of the assets and liabilities audit for group reporting purposes.
A further consideration is the potential impact of of group revenue, 100% of group profit before tax and 100% of the acquisitions and the way they were funded on the group total assets.
distributable reserves of the acquiring entity.
The application The group audit team performed the audits of the six reporting of published guidance in respect of distributable reserves, to components in accordance with the materiality levels used for these acquisitions and the structure of the Rathbones group, local audits, which ranged from 0.1 million to 2.4 million.
is complex and the interpretation of this guidance could have a significant impact on the level of retained profits in the parent company considered to be distributable in the form of dividends.
4 Our opinion on other matters Our response: For each of the acquisitions, we performed prescribed by the Companies Act a detailed review of the substance of the transactions and 2006 is unmodified considered and challenged managements assessment of the appropriate accounting treatment.
Our procedures included In our opinion: inspecting the sale and purchase agreements to corroborate key elements such as the party or parties to which the the part of the directors remuneration report to be consideration was being paid and assessing whether the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with substance of the acquisition indicated that a business with the Companies Act 2006: inputs, processes and outputs had been purchased.
We the information given in the strategic report and the corroborated payments made to underlying bank statements directors report for the financial year for which the financial and considered the appropriateness of the accounting for statements are prepared is consistent with the financial any deferred and or contingent elements to the purchase statements: and price, including challenging the assumptions used in the groups assessment.
The Jupiter Asset Management Limited information given in the corporate governance report set acquisition is accounted for as a Business Combination under out on pages 55 to 58 with respect to internal control and IFRS 3 and we reviewed the fair value calculation of the assets risk management systems in relation to financial reporting and liabilities being transferred and challenged managements processes and about share capital structures is consistent assumptions within the model such as the discount rate and with the financial statements.
the funds under management growth rate.
We have inspected the groups assessment of the impact of the acquisitions on the distributable reserves position of the parent company.
84 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only Scope and responsibilities 5 We have nothing to report in respect As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities of the matters on which we are statement set out on page 80, the directors are responsible required to report by exception for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
identified other information in the annual report that contains org.
This report is made solely a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the to the companys members as a body and is subject to financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is important explanations and disclaimers regarding our otherwise misleading.
responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this In particular, we are required to report to you if: report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an we have identified material inconsistencies between the understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Nicholas Edmonds Senior Statutory Auditor understandable and provides the information necessary for for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor shareholders to assess the groups performance, business Chartered Accountants model and strategy: or London the audit committee report does not appropriately address 18 February 2015 matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance report has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance report on page 55 relating to the companys compliance with the 10 provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 85
