Capita plc 162 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 163 Independent Auditors report to the members of Capita plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 110 to 160 and 167 to 174.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Revenue and profit recognition Revenue 4,378.1 million, profit Our audit procedures included testing the controls over the monitoring before tax 292.4 million of contract performance and costs.
These controls include the review Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, and page 116 accounting of contracts performance by the Groups Executive Board of Directors policy notes 2 e and 2 f. through the monthly operating board reviews, where the divisional financial director and divisional managing director of each division The contractual arrangements that underpin the measurement of present details of performance and business developments to the Groups revenue in the period can be complex with significant judgements Executive Board Directors.
involved in the assessment of current and future financial performance, including the application of long term contract We selected contracts entered into by the Group based on quantitative accounting principles.
Judgements impacting the recognition of factors for example, those with the greatest impact on the Groups revenue and resulting profits include, amongst others, those over: financial results, or with the largest contract assets recognised and qualitative factors for example, new contracts entered into during the the assessment of the stage of completion, and costs to complete, financial year or where the payment profile may not reflect the timing on long term contract arrangements of revenue recognition.
interpretation of contract terms and conditions: For each of those contracts we challenged the Groups judgements the consideration of onerous contract conditions and associated regarding the appropriate timing of the revenue recognition, including loss provisions: where long term contract accounting was applied.
We also challenged the the allocation of revenue to separately identifiable components Groups judgements regarding whether the contracts were onerous and within a contractual arrangement: whether contract related assets were recoverable.
the recognition and recoverability assessments of contract related Our audit procedures included the following: assets including those capitalised as direct incremental costs prior to service commencement.
obtaining and inspecting the contractual agreements: obtaining the contracts forecasts and comparing the assumptions underpinning them to contract terms, and where relevant inspecting correspondence with customers and other parties: and comparing contract forecasts to past performance versus contractual targets.
Capita plc 163 Strategic report Governance Accounts Accounts Capita plc 162 Capita plc 163 Independent Auditors report to the members of Capita plc only Acquisition accounting total fair value to Group recognised on Our audit procedures included considering a selection of acquisitions Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit acquisition, 378.3 million made during the year based on quantitative and qualitative factors.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, page 117 accounting The acquisitions selected included those acquisitions with the greatest We have audited the financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 110 to 160 and 167 to 174. policy note 2 j and pages 135 to 137 financial disclosures in note 17. impact on the Groups financial results, and those containing the greatest In our opinion: degree of judgement.
During the year the Group acquired businesses for a total the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and consideration of 378.3 million.
Judgement is required over the fair For each of these acquisitions: of the Groups profit for the year then ended: value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
we challenged the key assumptions and methodologies used by the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Group to identify the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and We consider these estimates to be significant audit risks because of European Union: determine their fair values: the impact the acquisitions have on the financial statements, and the the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and inherent judgement involved in estimating the fair value of the assets we discussed these with the Group and corroborated the explanations the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial and liabilities acquired.
provided by comparing these assumptions to market data, our past statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
experience of similar transactions, and the Groups business plan supporting the acquisition: 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement where available, we compared the amounts recognised to supporting In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were external documentation: as follows: we considered the appropriateness of the accounting for significant The risk Our response fair value adjustments in subsequent periods with reference to the Revenue and profit recognition Revenue 4,378.1 million, profit Our audit procedures included testing the controls over the monitoring acquisition accounting standard, and considered the presentation and before tax 292.4 million of contract performance and costs.
These controls include the review disclosure of material adjustments in the financial statements: and Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, and page 116 accounting of contracts performance by the Groups Executive Board of Directors we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure of acquisitions in policy notes 2 e and 2 f. through the monthly operating board reviews, where the divisional the accounts.
financial director and divisional managing director of each division The contractual arrangements that underpin the measurement of Carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill 2,619.4 million Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the Groups impairment present details of performance and business developments to the Groups revenue in the period can be complex with significant judgements Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, page 118 accounting assessment over the carrying value of intangible assets, including Executive Board Directors.
involved in the assessment of current and future financial policy note 2 k and pages 132 to 134 financial disclosures in note 14 goodwill, and performing the following procedures: performance, including the application of long term contract We selected contracts entered into by the Group based on quantitative and 15. we compared the total amount of discounted cash flows as per the accounting principles.
Judgements impacting the recognition of factors for example, those with the greatest impact on the Groups Groups calculations with reference to the Groups market capitalisation: We consider the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill to be a revenue and resulting profits include, amongst others, those over: financial results, or with the largest contract assets recognised and significant audit risk because of the inherent uncertainty involved in we tested the integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model: qualitative factors for example, new contracts entered into during the the assessment of the stage of completion, and costs to complete, forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of financial year or where the payment profile may not reflect the timing we assessed the appropriateness of any changes in the composition on long term contract arrangements the assessment of recoverability.
of cash generating units with reference to our understanding of interpretation of contract terms and conditions: the business: Furthermore, the Group disposed of its occupational health business For each of those contracts we challenged the Groups judgements the consideration of onerous contract conditions and associated in the year.
The loss on disposal calculation requires judgement we evaluated the cash flows used in the model compared to the regarding the appropriate timing of the revenue recognition, including loss provisions: over the allocation of goodwill and intangible assets to the disposed output of the Groups budgeting process and against the understanding where long term contract accounting was applied.
We also challenged the the allocation of revenue to separately identifiable components business.
The risk is that the loss recorded on disposal does not we obtained about the business through our audit, and determined if Groups judgements regarding whether the contracts were onerous and within a contractual arrangement: accurately reflect the allocable intangible assets of the business.
these cash flows were reasonable: whether contract related assets were recoverable.
the recognition and recoverability assessments of contract related we used external data and our own internal valuation specialists to Our audit procedures included the following: assets including those capitalised as direct incremental costs prior evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for growth and discount rates: to service commencement.
obtaining and inspecting the contractual agreements: we performed sensitivity and break-even analyses for these key inputs obtaining the contracts forecasts and comparing the assumptions and assumptions, and identified those cash generating units we underpinning them to contract terms, and where relevant inspecting consider most sensitive to impairment: correspondence with customers and other parties: and we compared the Groups calculations of the loss on the disposal of the comparing contract forecasts to past performance versus occupational health business to our expectations based on the relative contractual targets.
fair value of the disposed business: and we assessed the Groups disclosures related to the sensitivity of the outcome of their assessment to ensure that these disclosures reflect the risks identified.
In particular, for the Groups Insurance Services cash generating unit, we have considered the disclosure provided.
Non-underlying loss before Our audit procedures included the following: tax on business disposals 24.9 million and non-underlying loss we made enquiries of the directors, inspected and challenged the before tax on other items 218.4 million nature of items included within nonunderlying and agreed their Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, page 114 accounting respective balances to supporting documentation, and to third party policy note 2 and pages 122, 123 and 128 financial disclosures in correspondence where appropriate: notes 4, 5 and 9. we assessed the consistency of the items classified as non-underlying The Group separately presents certain income and expenditure as year on year and in accordance with the Groups accounting policy: and non-underlying on the face of the income statement.
we considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures made relating to non-underlying items, specifically as included within notes 4, 5 and 9 Non-underlying items are not defined by IFRSs, as adopted by the to the financial statements.
European Union, and therefore judgement is required by the Directors to identify such items as non-underlying and to maintain the comparability of results with previous years and in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of material non-underlying earnings may distort the readers view of the financial result in the year.
Capita plc 164 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 165 Independent Auditors report to the members of Capita plc only continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 18.0 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 6.2% of Group profit before tax and 5.3% of Group profit before tax adjusted for the loss on business disposal and Asset Services settlement charges as presented in notes 4 and 5 to the financial statements.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all individual % covered by Group procedures uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a profit impact in excess of 0.9 million and a balance sheet impact Group revenue 80% in excess of 13.5 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group profit before tax 83% 42% 28% Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at 25 key reporting components in the United Kingdom Group total assets 95% and Guernsey and by the group audit team over 2 key components in the United Kingdom.
These procedures covered approximately 80% of total Group revenue: 83% of Group profit before taxation: and 95% of total Group assets.
The Group audit team approved the components audit materiality levels, which ranged from 0.3 million to 9.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
Meetings were also held with the auditors at all locations.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Capita plc 165 Strategic report Governance Accounts Accounts Capita plc 164 Capita plc 165 Independent Auditors report to the members of Capita plc only continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 18.0 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other Group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 6.2% of Group profit before tax and 5.3% of Group profit before tax adjusted for the loss on misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
business disposal and Asset Services settlement charges as presented in notes 4 and 5 to the financial statements.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all individual % covered by Group procedures we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for a profit impact in excess of 0.9 million and a balance sheet impact shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or Group revenue 80% in excess of 13.5 million, in addition to other audit misstatements the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: qualitative grounds.
Group profit before tax 83% 42% 28% adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component not visited by us: or auditors at 25 key reporting components in the United Kingdom Group total assets 95% the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the and Guernsey and by the group audit team over 2 key components accounting records and returns: or in the United Kingdom.
These procedures covered approximately 80% of total Group revenue: 83% of Group profit before taxation: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or and 95% of total Group assets.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
The Group audit team approved the components audit materiality levels, which ranged from 0.3 million to 9.0 million, having regard to the mix Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
the directors statement, set out on page 79, in relation to going concern: and Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by t he part of the corporate governance statement on page 73 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Scope of report and responsibilities In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys consistent with the financial statements.
members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Sean McCallion Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 25 February 2015
