234436 RIT R&A pp109-pp116 26 02 2015 08:45 Page 110 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: RIT Capital Partners plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited RIT Capital Partners plcs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2014: the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 40.2 million which represents 1.75% of net assets.
The Group comprises an investment company and its subsidiaries, managing a widely diversified portfolio.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 16 subsidiaries including J Rothschild Capital Management Limited the Manager and the Materiality Parent Company.
We audited the financial statements of 8 subsidiaries and the Parent Company which accounted for 99% of the Groups income and 99% of its profit before tax, and 99% of Audit scope net assets.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within Areas of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group focus operates.
Our areas of focus comprise: valuation of direct private investments, funds, investment property and derivatives: risk of fraud in income recognition on direct private investments, funds, investment property and derivatives: and related party transactions.
110 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp109-pp116 26 02 2015 08:45 Page 111 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of direct private investments, investments We understood and evaluated the valuation in funds, investment property and derivatives methodology applied, by reference to industry practice, and tested the techniques used by Refer to page 32 Audit and Risk Committee Report, management in determining the fair value of the page 60 Accounting Policies and page 11 notes.
The investment portfolio at 31 December 2014 For direct private investments, we were able to: included quoted equity, short term government bonds, direct private investments, and investments incompare valuations to recent completed funds, investment property and derivatives.
transactions: We focused on the valuation of direct privateassess the validity of valuation models that applied investments as the valuations are material, complex comparable quoted company earnings multiples by and include estimates and significant judgements.
making appropriate adjustments to reflect the The valuation of these investments is determined by differences between them and the investments or management and directors and is based on the nature illiquidity of the investment, and checking earnings of the underlying business which has been invested data from audited financial statements, unaudited in.
The methods used include: management accounts and or forecasts for the investee entities: Applying a multiple to earnings: assess the valuation models that applied a Using a discounted cash flow model: discounted cash flow analysis by agreeing forecasts input into the model to supporting Using recent transaction prices: and management accounts and analysing the discount rate applied: Using underlying asset valuations.
obtain satisfactory explanations when challenging We focused on investments in funds, investment the assumptions made by management in the property and derivatives as the valuation assumptions applicable valuation models: used to fair value these investments do not have observable inputs that reflect quoted prices in active test the mathematical accuracy of the valuation markets, and are therefore more subjective.
models and verify the inputs into the models by agreeing them to third party sources where applicable: and read Valuation Committee papers and meeting minutes where the valuations of these investments were discussed and agreed.
This, RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 111 234436 RIT R&A pp109-pp116 26 02 2015 08:45 Page 112 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus together with the work outlined above and our knowledge of the investee entities and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines, enabled us to discuss with and challenge the Manager and directors as to the appropriateness of the methodology and key inputs used, and the valuations themselves.
We found that managements valuations of direct private investments were reasonable, and in particular that the assumptions used were appropriate based on the investees circumstances, and actual and expected financial performance.
For investments in funds, we were able to: confirm the fund valuation with underlying fund managers or administrators: and check the funds most recent audited financial statements or latest fund manager reports to corroborate the valuations applied by management.
We also assessed prior year valuations which were based on unaudited net asset statements by reference to their respective audited financial statements and found them to be reasonable.
For investment properties, we were able to: confirm that the valuation report was compliant with the best practice set out in the RICS Valuation Professional Standards January 2014 the Red Book : obtain satisfactory explanations for the assumptions made by management in the valuation: and test the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models and verify the inputs into the models by agreeing them to third party sources where applicable.
For derivatives, we: agreed the price to independent pricing sources: and checked valuation assumptions to term sheets.
No misstatements were identified by our testing of funds, investment property or derivatives which required reporting to those charged with governance.
112 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp109-pp116 26 02 2015 08:45 Page 113 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in income recognition on direct private Our testing over the gains losses on investments investments, funds, investment property and held at fair value included: derivatives obtaining an understanding of, and then testing Refer to page 59 Accounting Policies and page 68 the valuation process as set out in the area of notes.
focus above, to ascertain whether unrealised gains losses were appropriately calculated: We focused on the accuracy and completeness of income recognition relating to gains losses on testing realised gains losses by agreeing the investments.
proceeds of the sale to bank statements and sale agreements: Gains losses on investments represent changes in the fair value of investments over the financial year and recalculating unrealised gains based on the gains losses made on the disposal of investments.
valuation movement in investments over the year: Fair value movements that are unrealised are based on the change in investment valuations which in recalculating a sample of realised gains losses: themselves are subjective, as noted above.
We focused on gains losses on direct private investments, assessing manual journal entries related to funds, investment property and derivatives held at fair investment gains losses for any entries not value due to the subjective nature of the valuations, covered in our testing as set out above: we noted again as set out above.
ISAs UK & Ireland presume no such journals.
there is a risk of fraud in income recognition because No misstatements were identified which required of the pressure management may feel to achieve reporting to those charged with governance.
This, combined with the size of the gains losses on portfolio investments held at fair value, made this an area of focus.
Our testing over related parties included: Related Party Transactions Refer to page 32 Audit and Risk Committee Report assessing managements process for identifying and page 104 notes.
related parties and related party transactions, which includes maintaining up to date records of We focused on this area due to the nature and parties related to the Group and to the Groups number of related party transactions.
The complexity Board of Directors: and extent of these arrangements means that there is a risk that not all related party transactions are evaluating managements listing of related parties identified and disclosed in the financial statements.
and related parties transactions for completeness based on our knowledge gained from the audit: reading minutes of the Conflicts Committee, a group of independent non-executive Directors who monitor all arrangements with related parties: testing related party transactions to supporting documentation: obtaining written confirmation from the Parent Company of the list of all related parties: and performing scanning analytics for possible additional related party transactions.
We found no unidentified related parties or inconsistencies between the reported related party transactions and our testing in this area or the rest of our audit.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 113 234436 RIT R&A pp109-pp116 26 02 2015 08:45 Page 114 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments within the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
We have audited the Parent Company and 8 significant subsidiaries of the Group, accounting for 99% of the Group's income, 99% of its profit before tax, and 99% of net assets.
This, together with procedures performed over the consolidation, has provided the evidence we need for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 40.2 million 2013: 36.8 million.
How we determined it 1.75% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that net assets is the most appropriate benchmark because this is the key metric of interest to investors.
It is also a generally accepted measure used for companies in this industry.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2.0 million 2013: 1.8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 24 to 31 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
114 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp109-pp116 26 02 2015 08:45 Page 115 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Report & Accounts is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial responsibility.
statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 27, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider report arising from this the Report & Accounts to be taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and responsibility.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit the section of the Report & Accounts on page 32, as required by provision C. 3.8 We have no exceptions to of the Code, describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not report arising from this appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk responsibility.
Committee Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 115 234436 RIT R&A pp109-pp116 26 02 2015 08:45 Page 116 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 27, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Report & Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alison Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2015 116 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc 234436 RIT R&A pp117-pp120 26 02 2015 08:46 Page 117 Other Information 31 December 2014
