Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED Opinion on financial statements Scope of the audit of the In our opinion the financial statements: financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit for and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to the year then ended: give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud have been properly prepared in accordance with or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the IFRS as adopted by the EU IFRS : and accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys have been prepared in accordance with the circumstances and have been consistently applied and requirements of the Companies Guernsey adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Law, 2008 the Companies Law.
accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial What we have audited information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and We have audited the financial statements of Riverstone to identify any information that is apparently materially Energy Limited for the year ended 31 December 2014 incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the which comprise the Statement of Financial Position, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Changes in Equity, the Statement of Cash Flows and misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework implications for our report.
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs.
This report is made solely to the companys members, Our assessment of risks of as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the material misstatement Companies Law.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those We identified the following risks that we believed would matters we are required to state to them in an auditors have the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent allocation of resources and directing the efforts of the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility engagement team: to anyone other than the company and the companys i valuation of the Companys investment in the members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Partnership, because valuations of level 3 investments or for the opinions we have formed.
require significant judgement and estimation: ii ownership of the Partnership and underlying Respective responsibilities of investments, because failure to obtain good title Directors and auditor exposes the Company to significant risk of loss: iii identification, recording and disclosure of related party As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities transactions in the Financial Statements, because the Statement set out on page 31, the directors are responsible Company invests using a complex structure and a for the preparation of the financial statements and for significant portion of the Companys transactions have being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the i and ii are new risks in 2014 because the company Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
has had its first full year of operation during which it has made significant investments.
Items i and iii are also discussed in the Report of the Audit Committee..
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED CONTINUED We vouched valuation inputs that did not require Our application of materiality specialist knowledge to independent sources and We determined planning materiality for the Company to we tested the arithmetical accuracy of the be US$24.8m 2013: US$22.8m, which is approximately Companys calculations: 2% of equity.
This provided a basis for determining the We engaged our own internal oil and gas industry nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, valuation experts to: identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further a assist us to determine whether the audit procedures.
We used equity as a basis for determining methodologies used to value investments planning materiality because the Companys primary were in accordance with methods, particularly performance measures for internal and external reporting those specific to the industry, usually used are based on net asset value.
by market participants: On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our b for the more complex investments, use their assessment of the Companys overall control environment, knowledge of the market to corroborate and our judgement was that overall performance materiality challenge managements market related i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account judgements and valuation inputs including or balance for the Company should be 50% of materiality, discount rates, forward oil price, production namely US$12.4m 2013: US$11.4m.
Our objective in values and recent relevant transaction data: adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected c for the less complex, more recently acquired and undetected audit differences in the financial statements investments, perform procedures to challenge did not exceed our materiality level.
whether, in light of market data, it was We agreed with the Audit Committee that we appropriate to value the investments at cost.
would report to them all audit differences in excess We performed roll forward procedures to test of US$1.2 million, as well as differences below that fair value changes between 30 September and threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 31 December 2014, with specific focus on changes qualitative grounds.
in macro factors such as the decline in oil prices, We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against geo political events and company specific events.
both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above In particular, we asked our industry valuation and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
experts to assist in challenging management as to whether valuations at 31 December 2014 properly reflect the likely effect of the decline in oil prices: An overview of the scope of our audit We formed an independent view of whether the We adopted a risk-based approach in determining fair value of the Companys investment in the our audit strategy.
This approach focuses audit effort underlying Partnership is equivalent to the Net towards higher risk areas, such as management Asset Value of the Partnership and challenged judgements and estimates.
managements assumptions in reaching this The audit was led from Guernsey and utilised conclusion.
We also assessed whether the data valuations and other industry experts from Ernst & used in the analysis was appropriate and relevant.
We operated as an integrated ii We addressed the risk that the Company does not audit team across relevant jurisdictions and we performed hold good title to investments as follows: audit procedures and responded to the risks identified as described below.
obtained legal documentation for each layer of the companys investment holding chain to i We addressed the risk of incorrect valuation of confirm ownership at each layer: the Companys investment in the Partnership as set out below.
obtained independent legal confirmation at 31 December 2014 confirming the companys We confirmed our understanding of the investment structure holdings: Companys processes, methodologies, including the use of industry specific measures, and policies obtained independent confirmation from for valuing investments held by the Partnership: the underlying investee companies as at 30 September 2014: We carried out interim investment valuation procedures at 30 September 2014.
This testing tested changes in holdings between 30 September was performed on a sample basis, biased towards and 31 December by inspecting acquisition and the more complex, model based valuations of investment drawdown documentation.
investments held by the Partnership and to those held for a longer period.
For investments that had been acquired more recently we challenged whether cost remained an appropriate basis for fair value: Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
iii We addressed the risk that not all related party In particular, we are required to consider whether transactions have been appropriately identified, we have identified any inconsistencies between our recorded and disclosed as follows: knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, evaluated managements process for the balanced and understandable and whether the Annual identification of related parties, and used our Report appropriately discloses those matters that we knowledge of the Companys business and review communicated to the Audit Committee which we of board minutes to challenge completeness thereof: consider should have been disclosed.
obtained the related party register and reviewed Under the Companies Law we are required to report all identified related party transactions that to you if, in our opinion: occurred during the period, and cross checked these to the structure chart and the definitions proper accounting records have not been kept: or within IFRS and the Listing Rules: the financial statements are not in agreement with the reviewed legal agreements with service providers accounting records: or and related parties to validate the management fee we have not received all the information and and performance allocation calculations in the explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The directors responsibility statement, set out on Matters on which we are required to page 31, in relation to going concern: and report by exception The part of the Corporate Governance Report We have nothing to report in respect of the following: relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to specified for our review.
report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Directors report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or Michael Bane materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Company: or Guernsey is otherwise misleading.
12 February 2015 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the sole responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
