108 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RSA Insurance Group plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT concern assumption.
a materially higher capital requirement if it were required to enter the new regime on a standard formula basis.
misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response We w e re as si st ed b y o u r o w n ac tu ar ia l s pe ci ali sts t o u n fide rs ta nd the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due i n t hi s a re a. liabilities for certain classes of business in order to assess the reasonableness of estimates made by management.
discount rates for longer tail classes of business by territory and for changes in assumptions.
We used our industry knowledge to of losses.
Our audit focused particularly on lines of business with Canadian General Liability class and classes of business affected by emerging industry issues such as the impact of Periodic year around the amount and timing of recognition of case reprojections of the insurance liabilities in that business in order to conclude on the reasonableness of the estimates made by 110 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RSA Insurance Group plc only continued The risk Our response f or ec as ts t o a ct ua l re su lts to a ss es s th e p e rfo rma n ce of the b u sin e ss an d th e ac cu ra cy o f f or ec as ti ng.
W e co m p ar ed th e such as Argentina and Russia.
Additional judgement arises where o w n as se ss m en ts in relati on t o k e y i np ut s such a s p ro je ct ed uncertainty inherent in predicting future performance.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and the most the combined operating ratio.
Our focus has been on goodwill c a pit al ise d so ft w ar e i nt an gi bl e ass e ts m ay b e impaired.
Where in respect of the Groups businesses in Ireland and Russia.
we compared the assumptions underlying the estimated future operating plan assumptions.
of any impairments that are recognised.
The risk Our response of the Groups disclosures in respect of the assumptions 111 The risk Our response c h all en gi ng th e ke y as su m p tio ns a pp lie d to d et ermine the position of the Group.
As part of our audit procedures we We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in IT systems and controls The risk Our response t es tin g ge n er al IT co n tro ls a ro un d sy st em a cc e ss an d ch ange are legacy systems which require increased manual inputs.
assessing whether appropriate restrictions were placed on access to core systems through testing the permissions we were therefore unable to rely on the related automated such as reconciliations between systems and other information % % % % % 4 % 6 8 1 9 6 8 7 2 % A A A 4 A C 5 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RSA Insurance Group plc only continued Group net written premium Materiality 7,000m 40m Materialtiy for the reported to the Audit Committee misstatement within these.
The different components accounted for the following percentages of the groups results: GROUP NET WRITTEN TOTAL GROUP ASSETS GROUP INSURANCE TOTAL GROUP PROFIT LOSS PREMIUM LIABILITIES BEFORE TAX Audit for group reporting C B % 9 % % 2 C 1 7 C B % 0 2 B % 4 2 B performed by the component auditor.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies model and strategy: or the Group Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RSA Insurance Group plc only continued Scope of report and responsibilities STUART CRISP Senior Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants London
