Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion Our audit approach In our opinion: Overview Schroders plc Group financial statements and Parent Company Materiality Overall Group materiality: 28.3 million which represents financial statements the financial statements give a true and 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Audit scope The Group has three business segments, Asset Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups Management, Wealth Management and Group, profit and of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for consisting of over 170 legal entities operating the year then ended: in 37 offices.
We audited the complete financial information for 15 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in legal entities, due to their size and or risk characteristics.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Taken together, the territories and functions in the scope IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: of audit work accounted for 82 per cent.
of Group the Parent Company financial statements have been properly revenues, 80 per cent.
of Group profit before tax and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European exceptional items, 97 per cent.
of Group total assets Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the and 92 per cent.
Companies Act 2006: and Area of focus Misstatement in revenue recognition of manually the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with calculated or complex revenue streams.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Valuation and completeness of legal and regulatory provisions.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Valuation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
What we have audited Schroders plcs financial statements comprise: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated and Schroders plc statements of financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards position as at 31 December 2014: on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the the consolidated and Schroders plc statements of changes risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for ended: and example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved the notes to the financial statements, which include a making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently summary of significant accounting policies and other uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of explanatory information.
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the material misstatement due to fraud.
Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our the financial statements and are identified as audited.
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus particular to Schroders plc How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Misstatement in revenue recognition of manually calculated We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls operated by the or complex revenue streams Group around assets under management, fee billing systems and set up Refer to page 57 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note 2 of client data.
We also obtained and assessed independent assurance reports for the Revenue, which comprises management fees, performance fees, interest relevant controls at the third party administrators, and considered whether income and other fees is the result of investment management activities there was any impact on our audit.
from both the Asset Management and Wealth Management segments.
We tested the operating and effectiveness of the review by the client We have understood the significant revenue streams and assessed where management teams of the performance fee bills issued to clients, the there is an inherent risk of error, including manual processes and areas of monitoring of matching of cash received in settlement and investigation of any judgement.
The Group recognised performance fees of 37.1m in 2014 queries raised by clients.
This is the most judgemental revenue stream for the Group due to the timing and extent of revenue recognition.
Our controls testing did not identify any weaknesses that caused us to amend our planned substantive testing.
Performance fees bases are set out in the relevant fund prospectus or investment management agreement.
They involve some additional We substantively tested a sample of performance fee calculations to check complexity as the performance of relevant assets is compared to a that performance fees were appropriately earned by agreeing the data used relevant benchmark.
Each agreement sets out the benchmark to the Groups underlying systems, agreeing the basis of calculation to that set performance criteria, and measurement thereof, that Schroders needs out in the client agreements, agreeing the benchmark performance to an to achieve in order for the performance fee to crystallise.
These fees independent third party source, and re-performing the calculation.
are calculated using data from internal and external sources, including third party administrators.
Any queries from clients are investigated by Our testing did not identify any evidence that performance fees were the Group and resolved, and the collection of performance fees is materially misstated.
144 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Area of focus particular to Schroders plc How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and completeness of legal and regulatory provisions Refer to page 57 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note 19 To test the provision in relation to the DOJ programme, we: Provisions and Contingent Liabilities.
obtained and read correspondence between the Group and external legal counsel, the DOJ and the Independent Examiner: The Group is exposed to actual and potential legal claims and also matters tested changes to the US related accounts identified and the financial arising as a result in changes in regulation and legislation in the countries in information related to those accounts audited in 2013 by agreeing the which it operates.
The estimations and assumptions involved are inherently information to the firms systems and records: judgemental in nature.
assessed the updated judgements on non-tax compliance of accounts and the allocation of accounts to categories stratified by risk of penalty on a In connection with the US Department of Justice DOJ programme to sample basis by reading the client information supporting that judgement: identify US related accounts at Swiss banks relating to non-US tax re-performed the calculation of the possible penalty based on the compliant persons, there remains uncertainty about the amount that will stratification by risk of penalty: and be paid, which depends upon assumptions about the tax compliance assessed the financial sensitivity of the provision by flexing the assumptions status of the related persons.
on the likelihood of the Group paying a penalty.
An Independent Examiner has been appointed by Schroders to partly We found no exceptions in the population of US-related accounts identified verify the analysis prepared by the Group as required by the DOJ.
by the Group and no errors in the calculation of the provision held at the year end.
The Group held a provision of 15m for the possible penalty in relation to the DOJ programme at 31 December 2014 2013: 15m.
That provision In order to test other potential claims both those for which a provision is remains the Groups current estimate of the amount that may be payable, recognised and those for which it is not, we made enquiries of the Groups which will be subject to final assessment by the DOJ.
and Companys internal legal counsel, obtained independent letters from external counsel and assessed the provisions against past history or agreed to supporting documentation.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures of provisions and contingent liabilities made in the Group financial statements against the requirements of IFRS.
We did not identify any material misstatements.
Valuation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets We obtained and read the Directors assessment of whether there had been Refer to page 57 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note 14 Goodwill any indicators of impairment for acquired intangible assets and challenged the and intangible assets.
Directors key assumptions for client retention and long-term assets under management growth rates by comparing retention rates to experience, growth In line with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the goodwill and intangible asset rates to economic and industry forecasts and assessing the discount rate balances of 474.5m 2013 489.0m are subject to an annual impairment compared to the cost of capital for the Group and comparable organisations.
review by the Directors to assess the risk that the value attributed to them on acquisition may not be supported by conditions or any events that have We calculated the extent of change in the assumptions that either individually occurred post acquisition.
or collectively would be required for the goodwill or intangible asset balance in each cash generating unit to be impaired for both the Wealth Management The goodwill attributed to the Asset Management 288.4m and Wealth and Asset Management segments.
Management 68.9m segments both have significant headroom in their impairment reviews at the year end.
We, therefore, consider the risk of We found no material exceptions in our testing.
We focused on acquired intangible customer relationship assets recognised on the acquisitions of Cazenove Capital 96.7m and STW 10.6m.
The key assumptions on which the fair value of the acquired customer relationships is based are client retention rates, the level of assets under management and the discount rate used.
Following the integration of Cazenove Capital and STW into the Asset Management and Wealth Management segments, it is no longer possible for the Directors to clearly distinguish the cashflows of the acquired businesses from the wider Schroders business.
Impairment was, therefore considered at the Asset Management and Wealth Management segment level.
The directors have considered possible indicators of impairment arising from changes to the business activities including net flows, funds under management, and revenue generated.
No impairment charge has been recorded against these balances in the current financial year.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 145 Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going concern.
We have as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, nothing to report having performed our review.
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the In establishing the overall approach to the audit of the Group, we going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis considered our assessment of the risk of material misstatement within presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in each entity.
We determined the work that needed to be performed by operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year us, as the Group engagement team, or by local teams within PwC UK from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our or from other PwC network firms.
Where the work was performed by audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern local audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed basis is appropriate.
to have in the audit work for those entities to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In the current year the Group team met with all the local audit teams responsible for those entities scoped in for Group reporting purposes, Other required reporting namely Luxembourg, Switzerland and Australia, as well as holding Consistency of other information regular discussions with these teams throughout the audit process.
In addition we met with the Schroders centralised finance teams in Companies Act 2006 opinions Singapore, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is a number of complex items, including valuation of goodwill and consistent with the financial statements: and intangibles, valuation of provisions, employee benefits expense the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out and tax, are audited by the Group engagement team at the on pages 50 to 62 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the head office.
Taken together the territories and functions in the scope of audit work accounts for 82 per cent.
of Group revenues, 80 per cent.
of Group ISAs UK & Ireland reporting profit before tax and exceptional items, 97 per cent.
of Group total Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, assets and 92 per cent.
in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions Materiality materially inconsistent with the information to report arising from The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together apparently materially incorrect based on, or with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of materially inconsistent with, our knowledge our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures of the Group and Parent Company acquired and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on in the course of performing our audit: or the financial statements as a whole.
the explanation given by the Directors on page We have no exceptions Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 77, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK to report arising from for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Corporate Governance Code the Code, as to this responsibility.
why the Annual Report does not include a statement that they consider the Annual Report Overall Group materiality 28.3 million 2013: 22.0 million.
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
necessary for members to assess the Groups Rationale for Profit before tax is a standard benchmark and Parent Companys performance, business benchmark applied used in determining materiality.
This year we model and strategy is materially inconsistent have adjusted it for exceptional items given the with our knowledge of the Group and Parent one-off nature of these items, which would Company acquired in the course of performing distort the basis of the calculation.
the explanation given by Directors on pages 56 We have no exceptions We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to 59, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the to report arising from this to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.75 million Code, as to why the Annual Report does not responsibility.
include a section that appropriately addresses 2013: 1.0 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, matters communicated by us to the Audit and in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Risk Committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
146 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable in our opinion: assurance that the financial statements are free from material we have not received all the information and explanations misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we require for our audit: or an assessment of: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been received from branches not visited by us: or consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in by the Directors: and agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, Directors remuneration and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Companies Act 2006. reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures Other Companies Act 2006 reporting or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited this responsibility.
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Corporate governance statement knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
prepared by the Parent Company.
Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance London Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
4 March 2015 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit a.
The maintenance and integrity of the Schroders plc website is the responsibility of Our responsibilities and those of the Directors the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 147 Shareholder information 148 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Shareholder information 150 Five-year consolidated financial summary 152 Glossary 154 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 149
