Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Opinion on Financial Statements of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 October 2014 and of the companys profit for the year then ended: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Flow Statement, Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going Concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 18 that the company is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of listed investments We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: The listed investments of the company 765m make assessed the design and implementation of the controls over up 104% of total net assets 734m.
valuation and ownership of investments: agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the Investments listed on recognised exchanges are valued investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published at the closing bid price at the year end.
by an independent pricing source: agreed 100% of the companys investment portfolio at the There is a risk that investments may not be valued correctly year end to confirmation received directly from the custodian or may not represent the property of the company.
and depository: and reviewed the controls report over Northern Trust to assess design and implementation of controls at the custodian.
Recognition of investment income We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: Dividends from equity shares are accounted for on an assessed the design and implementation of the controls over ex-dividend basis.
Overseas dividends are accounted revenue recognition, completeness and allocation: for on an ex-dividend basis and included gross for a sample of corporate actions and special dividends of withholding tax.
received, we challenged managements rationale for the allocation between revenue and capital against the Dividends are accounted for as revenue, except where: in the requirements of the SORP and agreed details of the dividend opinion of management and the board, the dividend is capital to a third party source to evidence the nature of the dividend: in nature, in which case it is treated as a return of capital.
reviewed the accounting policies for revenue recognition against the requirements of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice There is a risk that revenue is incomplete or incorrectly allocated and the SORP and performed focused testing to confirm their between revenue and capital accounts.
application during the year: developed an expectation of the dividends received for the We have included this risk in our audit opinion for 31 October year using market yield to assess the reasonableness of the 2014 as this balance is now significant following the reduction dividends recorded: and of our basis of materiality.
for a sample of investments held, agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared, obtained from an independent pricing source to the dividend entitlement report.
Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 23 Independent Auditors Report continued The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 19.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our Application of Materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the company to be 7.3m 2013: 22.5m, which is 1% 2013: 3% of net assets.
This is a change of approach from 2013, where we used a materiality of 3% of net assets.
We have changed the percentage applied to align more closely with other comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 147,000 2013: 430,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An Overview of the Scope of Our Audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
24 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Claxton ACA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Glasgow, United Kingdom 12 December 2014 Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 25
