Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit obtaining detailed position papers from the Group to support 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified estimates made, challenging these estimates with senior operational, We have audited the financial statements of Carillion plc for the year commercial and financial management and assessing whether or not ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Group Consolidated these estimates showed any evidence of management bias: Income Statement, the Group Consolidated and Parent Company completing a number of site visits across the UK, Middle East and Balance Sheets, the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Canada, meeting local management and overseas auditors, physically Income, the Group Consolidated Changes in Equity, the Group inspecting the stage of completion of individual projects and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
identifying areas of complexity through observation and discussion In our opinion: with site personnel: challenging the Groups judgement in respect of forecast contract the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the out-turn, quantum and allocation of contingencies, settlements and Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 the recoverability of contract balances with reference to our own and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: assessments, historical outcomes and industry norms: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in analysing correspondence and meeting minutes with customers accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as around variations and claims, obtaining assessments of these from adopted by the European Union: the Groups legal or technical experts, if applicable: and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly we also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and of these judgements.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group In our audit report for the year ended 31 December 2013 we included the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
timing of revenue recognition from licence arrangements as one of the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We considered this risk to be less significant in the current year.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit Carrying value of goodwill 1,519.1 million were as follows: Refer to page 48 Report of the Audit Committee, page 81 note 1.
Significant accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets Recognition of contract revenue, margin, and related receivables and pages 94 to 95 note 11.
Intangible assets and liabilities total revenue 3,493.9 million Refer to page 48 Report of the Audit Committee, page 82 note 1.
The risk The Groups balance sheet includes goodwill, principally Significant accounting policies Revenue recognition and page 114 arising from historical acquisitions in the UK.
Accounting estimates and Judgements Revenue recognition aggregated book value of the goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, and therefore this asset is impaired and should be written down in The risk The Group recognises revenue based on the stage of value.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and completion of contracts by taking the proportion of costs incurred discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of to the balance sheet date compared to the estimated final costs of the recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas for our audit.
contract at completion and therefore relies on estimates in relation to the final out-turn of costs on each contract.
Changes to these estimates The Group annually carries out an impairment assessment of goodwill could give rise to material variances in the amount of revenue and using a value in use model which is based on the net present value of the margin recognised.
Cost contingencies may also be included in these forecast earnings of the cash generating unit.
The value in use of each estimates to take account of specific risks, or claims against the Group, cash generating unit CGU is calculated using certain assumptions arising within each contract.
These contingencies are reviewed by the around discount rates, growth rates and cash flow forecasts.
Group on a regular basis throughout the contract life and adjusted where appropriate.
Finally, variations and claims are recognised on Given the relative size of the goodwill in the Group balance sheet, a contract-by-contract basis where the Group believes the rights and particularly in the UK Services CGU, relatively small changes in these obligations exist given the progress of negotiations.
There is therefore a assumptions could give rise to material changes in the assessment of high degree of judgement in: assessing the level of these contingencies: the carrying value of goodwill.
recognising variations and claims: and estimating the revenue recognised by the Group with respect to the final out-turn on contracts.
Our response Our procedures included assessing the key assumptions applied by the Group in determining the recoverable Our response We evaluated the controls designed and implemented amounts of each CGU.
In particular, we: considered the consistency by the Group to monitor amounts owed on construction contracts, and appropriateness of the allocation of businesses and related and in particular, the claims and variation elements across the Group goodwill balances into CGUs, and the underlying assumptions in to obtain evidence that on a Group basis, as well as individually, determining the cash flows and growth assumptions applied with the financial statements reflect a balanced view of the risks and reference to historical forecasting accuracy: challenged the opportunities across the portfolio of contract positions.
We attended assumptions used in the calculation of the discount rates used by and inspected minutes from certain meetings, forming a key part of the the Group, including comparisons with external data sources and Groups risk process to fully challenge at a lower executive level both consideration of the potential risk of management bias: and performed new tenders and contract bids, and ongoing performance on existing our own sensitivity analysis, including a reasonably possible reduction contracts.. We then selected a sample of contracts using a variety of in assumed growth rates and cash flows.
We also assessed whether quantitative and qualitative factors in order to assess and challenge the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the the most significant and more complex contract positions.
In this impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions appropriately area our audit procedures included: reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
considering the financial performance of contracts against budget and historical trends to assess the historical accuracy of judgement in the recognition of claims and variations as well as the final out-turn on contracts: inspecting the contracts for key clauses, identifying relevant contractual mechanisms such as pain gain shares, liquidated damages and success fees and considered their impact on the completeness and existence of the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only continued 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you of our audit if, in our opinion: The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 9.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent profit before taxation, normalised to exclude the acquisition costs Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received set out in note 4, of which it represents 5.9 per cent.
from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the identified misstatements individually exceeding 6.75. million: the accounting records and returns: or aggregate of other corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are individually exceeding 0.45 million: and other identified individual not made: or audit misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Of the Groups ten reporting components, we subjected five to audits for Group reporting purposes and three to specified risk focused audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did the Directors statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance statement on page 41 relating The components within the scope of our work covered more than: to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK 95 per cent of Group revenue, 95 per cent of Group profit before tax Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
and 95 per cent of Group total assets.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at a Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of Scope and responsibilities material misstatement within these.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible for the preparation The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website approved the component materialities, which ranged from 7.0 million at www.
This report is made solely to 7.5 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important Group across the components.
The work on three of the five audited explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published components was performed by component auditors and the rest on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a which by the Group audit team.
are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, The Group audit team visited four component locations in the United the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Kingdom, Canada, the United Arab Emirates, and Oman.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component.
Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 2006 is unmodified Chartered Accountants In our opinion: One Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been B4 6GH properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report 4 March 2015 for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74
