Financial statements and notes Independent Auditors report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC 1 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit debt and stressed business models and continue to present a risk of environments and considered the likely impact on the Groups Our response We used our own valuation specialists to assess the future default portfolio to focus their testing on key risk areas appropriateness of the Groups forecasting approach and its derivation of Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied.
We compared the latter to external sources.
Our challenge O O Economic growth in South Korea has improved to 3.7 per cent in For Larger Clients, we tested the key controls over the credit grading We have audited the financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC to the cash ow forecasts included: conrming the internal consistency of 2014 from 3.0 per cent in 2013, but consumer debt levels remain process, to assess if the risk grades allocated to counterparties were the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages assumptions and comparing them to progress against business plans and high and the banking industry continues to suffer from low margins appropriate.
We then performed detailed credit assessments of all 225 to 307.
In our opinion: our knowledge of the local banking environment: comparing forecasts to and profitability.
As a consequence, the Groups profitability in its loans above $50 million in credit grades 13 and 14 see pages 75 past performance and to GDP forecasts from the IMF: and checking O The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Korean operation remains depressed.
However, the stress in the and76 and key loans above $100 million on the Groups early alert non-financial assumptions to evidence where necessary.
Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 Groups Retail portfolio in Korea has eased, partly because certain list see page 109 together with a selection of other loans.
In doing and of the Groups profit for the year then ended higher-risk portfolios are running off and partly because there have these, we critically assessed the reasonableness of the forecast of As in 2013, our primary focus was on South Korea.
Given the complex been reduced claims by customers to restructure debt recoverable cash ows, realisation of collateral and other possible interplay of factors relating to the local economic, regulatory, and social O The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in sources of repayment.
We checked the consistency of key conditions, the Senior Statutory Auditor again visited Seoul to gain a O accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The UAE economy grew by 4.3 per cent in 2014 and property prices assumptions and compared them to progress against business deeper insight into the issues.
In addition: we assessed the vulnerability as adopted by the European Union EU continued to improve.
Certain legacy issues from the financial crisis plans and our own understanding of the relevant industries and of the business to further loan losses, drawing on our work on loan remain, but the risk associated with them is reducing O The parent company financial statements have been properly business environments.
We also checked them where possible to impairment described above: we sought supporting evidence for key O prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as The demand in developing markets for commodities to fuel externally derived evidence, such as commodity prices and non-financial improvements to the business such as the introduction of applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act economic growth means that it is inevitable that both they and the forecasts, real estate valuations and regulatory approvals new products : and we critically assessed the reasonableness of forecast 2006 Group are affected by recent falls in commodity prices.
However, in product mixes against historical outcomes.
In addition we assessed the O For Retail, the impairment process is based on projecting losses almost all cases there is no direct correlation between a fall in Groups ability to reduce Koreas carrying value by paying out dividends.
O The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the based on the prior historical payment performance of each portfolio, commodity prices and the health of a particular business.
Instead requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group adjusted for current market conditions.
We tested the accuracy of Finally we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures, the effect of price movements is amplied or mitigated by a wide financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting the key inputs e. g. year-end balances, repayment history into the including sensitivity to key inputs, are appropriate.
range of factors, including business model, risk positions, financial Standards Regulation models.
We used our own valuation specialists to assess the strength and management quality.
A diversied portfolio should also appropriateness of the impairment calculation methodology.
Valuation of financial instruments in the balance sheet insulate the effect to manageable pockets of weakness rather than 2 Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement Weevaluated whether the output of the models are consistent with present a pervasive risk across the whole book and pages 61 and 62 The risk is that financial instruments may be mispriced in the balance historical payment performance.
We then challenged the The starting point for our audit was a consideration of the inherent risks present managements insight into this.
At present, the stressed part sheet, because they are not based on objective external prices or, appropriateness of the adjustments made by management to reect to the Groups business model and how these have been mitigated.
of the Groups commodity-related loan portfolio is primarily parts of where these are not easily observable, the best estimate of what they current market conditions, with reference to our own knowledge and This included understanding the strength of the Groups capital and the lower rated oil and coal producer sector, together with some oil may be.
Of the financial instruments that are carried at fair value or as to market and economic conditions liquidity position, the diversication of its assets, the exibility and tenor support companies available-for-sale in the Groups balance sheet, 99 per cent qualied as of its balance sheet and the management of its cost base.
We Our focus in particular risk areas was as follows: Level 1 or 2 as at 31 December 2014.
This means they were valued O In China, growth has slowed to 7.4 per cent in 2014 from 7.7 per cent assessed and challenged the inherent risks with reference to: using prices that were observable in the market place or through O in 2013 and there are signs of stress in some sectors.
Stress is by no For Indian exposures we analysed the portfolio to identify those that models with market observable inputs, resulting in the valuation risk O IMF economic forecasts and commentary means pervasive across the whole economy, however, and in the remain more vulnerable to default, including those exposed to the being low.
However, liquidity has drained rapidly from emerging and Groups case is limited to lower-grade counterparties in the energy, infrastructure sector and to government and state dependent entities O The perspectives of our in-country audit teams on their local developing markets in past periods and it is important to ascertain that metals and mining sectors O economies and banking industries In the UAE, we revisited restructured legacy exposures to assess prices are liquid enough to be genuinely observable in the market.
The O The Groups financial markets activities continue to be mostly in whether they were still performing as expected and whether the remaining 1 per cent $4 billion of financial instruments are classed as O The views of our specialists in a number of areas including bank assets and liabilities, whose prices are observable in the market recovery assumptions remained appropriate Level 3, because certain pricing inputs to them are unobservable.
The regulation, IT, tax and financial crime prevention place Level 1 and 2 instruments in accounting parlance see pages determination of these prices is considerably more subjective.
O For commodities exposures we broke the portfolio down into its O The views of the Prudential Regulatory Authority 258 to 260.
The level of liquidity underlying those instruments component parts in order to identify which areas were most Our response For financial instruments we checked for a selection continues to be sufficient to enable transparent valuation of them O Checking for consistency between among others the Groups stressed.
In doing so, we took account of the size and financial that pricing inputs used were externally sourced and were correctly budgets, regular forecasts, stress testing, reporting to the Audit, Having addressed the going concern assumption and whether the strength of counterparties, the tenor of the debt much of Standard input into pricing models.
We used our own valuation specialists to Board Risk and Group Risk Committees and the many discussions Groups database of transactions was a sufficient underlying basis for Chartereds exposure is short term and the rate at which assess that the models were appropriate and they valued a selection of we have with senior management in different countries the accounts, the risks of material misstatement lay in decisions over counterparties were moving into early alert and credit grades 12-14, the Groups debt securities and derivative positions independently and loan and goodwill impairments and the valuation of financial which are monitored more closely.
The data for doing this was tested compared their valuation to the Groups valuation.
We also considered the Groups control environment and in particular instruments.
This is because they require significant judgement in using the base procedures set out above.
We then compared the whether its systems were processing transactions completely and In order to assess the liquidity of the prices for Level 1 and 2 assessing subjective and uncertain estimates.
In forming our outcome of this work with the Groups stress testing to see if there faithfully, and included appropriate controls designed to prevent fraud.
instruments, we tested a selection of instruments to establish how unmodied opinion on the financial statements, we undertook the were any further areas of risk that should be subject to our base Our work included testing the key controls over the processing of many institutions contributed to pricing inputs and how wide the ranges following principal procedures on each of these areas as follows.
We challenged the Groups stress tests by: reviewing the transactions and the key inter-system, bank and custodial of observable quotes were.
We checked that these factors were taken Groups stress testing compilation process to assess its reconciliations as well as trade conrmations.
In addition we sought to into account by the Group.
Impairment of loans and advances independence and integrity: compared the output to our in-country apply industry lessons learned from recent dealing room issues at other audit teams views of stress to check for consistency: and used our In 2014, Level 3 instruments mainly comprised unlisted private equity banks in our testing of controls.
The risk is that bad debts may be misstated.
Corporate & Institutional risk specialists to challenge the key assumptions used investments and a small number of illiquid, thinly traded loans and debt Clients, Commercial Clients and the Private Bank collectively Larger Finally we considered the potential impact of regulatory investigations securities.
For this portfolio, we performed additional procedures over a O Clients represents 74 per cent $279 billion of the Groups loan Similarly we broke the China portfolio down into its component parts see pages 103 and 104 on the Group, including considering the views selection of investments, critically assessing key inputs, assumptions portfolio, while Retail Clients represents 26 per cent $98 billion.
These using a similar process to that used for commodities.
We then of the Groups external and internal counsel.
and models, considering alternative valuation methods and assessing portfolios are different in nature and require a different approach to loan focused on the areas where stress was apparent as described above sensitivities to key factors.
For example, for unlisted private equity These assessments enabled us to form a judgement on going concern impairment.
The Larger Clients portfolio comprises larger loans that are O Finally we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures positions, we assessed the appropriateness of the pricing multiples and also highlighted the key areas of financial statement risk on which monitored individually by management.
The assessment of loan loss appropriately reect the Groups exposure to credit risk available from comparable listed companies and for material loans and our audit has focused.
By looking at both broad risk themes across the impairment is therefore based on knowledge of each individual borrower.
debt instruments, we assessed the reasonableness of the forecast Group and particular concerns in specic geographies and businesses, However, the Retail portfolio comprises much smaller value loans to a Goodwill cash ows and discount rates used by comparing them to similar we were able to calibrate our work to financial statement risk more very much greater number of customers.
Loans are not monitored on an instruments.
The risk is that goodwill in the balance sheet may not be supported by precisely.
The developments in issues identied last year and new individual basis, but are grouped by product into homogeneous the future cash ows of the underlying business.
Total goodwill in the issues identied in 2014 are as follows, with commodity and Chinese portfolios.
Portfolios are then monitored through delinquency statistics, Finally we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures, balance sheet is $5.2 billion but approximately $2.7 billion of this relates exposures becoming of sufficient audit focus that we separately explain which also drive the assessment of loan loss provisions.
including sensitivity to key inputs, appropriately reect the Groups to businesses where post-acquisition growth in cash ows now our procedures on them see further below.
The South Korea loan exposure to financial instrument valuation risk.
Our response We undertook the following base audit procedures in all provides substantial headroom over the goodwill balance.
We regard book has required less audit focus and so our work is not separately in-scope countries: these as very low risk from a misstatement perspective.
Our work was explained: therefore focused on the acquisitions where the headroom is lower, O For both Larger Clients and Retail our in-country teams used their O Economic conditions in India have improved since its election in May amounting to $2.5 billion.
local knowledge to assess the trends in their local credit 2014.
However, certain counterparties continue to struggle with high 222 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 223
