234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 28 Active investment working for you Independent auditors report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC to identify any information that is apparently materially Opinion on financial statements incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the In our opinion the financial statements: knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its loss for the misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the year then ended: implications for our report.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as Our assessment of risks of material misstatement adopted by the European Union: and We identified the following risks of material misstatement have been prepared in accordance with the requirements which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: of the Companies Act 2006. the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The table also contains our What we have audited response to the risks: We have audited the financial statements of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC the Company for the year ended Risks Identified Our Response 31 December 2014 which comprise the Statement of The valuation of the Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position, We agreed the year end assets held in the the Statement of Cash Flows, the Statement of Changes in prices of the investments investment portfolio is Equity and the related notes 1 to 23.
The financial reporting to an independent source.
the key driver of the framework that has been applied in their preparation is We agreed the number of Companys net asset applicable law and International Financial Reporting shares held in each security value and total return.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
to a confirmation of legal Incorrect asset pricing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as title received from the or a failure to maintain a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companys custodian.
proper legal title of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken assets held by the so that we might state to the Companys members those Company could have a matters we are required to state to them in an auditors significant impact on report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent portfolio valuation and, permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility therefore, the return to anyone other than the Company and the Companys generated for members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for shareholders.
the opinions we have formed.
Our application of materiality Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor We determined planning materiality for the Company to be As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 7.99 million 2013: 7.92 million which is 1% of total Statement set out on page 27 the directors are responsible equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, for the preparation of the financial statements and for timing and extent of our risk assessment procedures, being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the and determining the nature, timing and extent of further financial statements in accordance with applicable law and audit procedures.
We have derived our materiality calculation International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those based on a proportion of total equity as we consider it to be standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the most important financial metric on which shareholders Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
would judge the performance of the Company.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts assessment of the Companys overall control environment, and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or balance for the Company should be 75% of planning error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the materiality, namely 5.99 million 2013: 5.94 million.
Our accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total circumstances and have been consistently applied and detected and undetected audit differences in all accounts adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant did not exceed our planning materiality level.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we We have reported to the Committee all audit differences read all the financial and non-financial information in the in excess of 0.39 million 2013: 0.39 million as well as Annual Report & Accounts to identify material differences below that threshold that, in our view, inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
28 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 29 Active investment working for you Independent auditors report continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Act 2006 the directors statement, set out on page 17 in relation In our opinion: to going concern: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating audited has been properly prepared in accordance with to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Ashley Coups Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual London report is: 24 February 2015 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29
