FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CARPHONE The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the WAREHOUSE GROUP PLC preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law In our opinion: andIFRS.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied inthe preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state law and UK GAAP.
ofthe Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 29 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statement contained on page 24 of the Strategic Report that the inaccordance with IFRS: Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK GAAP: and we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with is appropriate: and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, to continue as a going concern.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, theconsolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 29 this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue and the Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 12. as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Commission receivable for certain transactions is dependent on We evaluated the design and implementation of both the manual customer behaviour beyond the point of sale.
Management is therefore and automated controls over the revenue recognition process required to exercise judgement in respect of the level of customer inrespect of commissions receivable.
In addition we tested that default within the contract period, expected levels of customer these controls were operating effectively throughout the year.
spend and customer behaviour beyond the initial contract period.
Wehave tested the valuation of revenue recognised through review The key judgements and estimates involved are described in more of the Groups contractual arrangements, substantive testing of detail on page 69. management assumptions to third party network data and testing of subsequent cash receipts.
We have also assessed the validity ofthose judgements made in prior years against actual outcomes.
Acquisition accounting The identification and the determination of the fair value of intangible We tested the design and implementation of the controls around assets arising from the CPW Europe Acquisition and the recognition managements process for both the identification of intangible of fair value adjustments through the associated purchase price assets and fair value adjustments.
We used our internal valuation allocation process involves complex accounting considerations.
specialists to consider the appropriateness of methodology applied The intangible asset identification process requires management and to test the inputs to the valuation models used to determine the judgement in respect of estimates of future cash flows and associated value of the intangible assets, including the discount rates, growth discount rates in addition to economic lives.
Management engaged rates and useful economic lives, through comparing these against external valuation experts in relation to this process.
Fair value industry benchmarks on similar assets and our understanding of the adjustments, in particular those arising from property, plant and future prospects of the business.
We also challenged and tested the equipment, pre-existing intangible assets and property operating appropriateness of the cash flow projections used in the valuations.
leases, require significant judgement in relation to fair value at the For the other significant fair value adjustments, we used our internal date of acquisition, for which management also engaged external valuation specialists to benchmark the assumptions against relevant valuation experts.
industry data to assess the appropriateness of the adjustments.
Impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets The Groups assessment of impairment of acquisition-related We assessed the assumptions used by management in the intangible assets, including goodwill, primarily arising from the impairment model for goodwill and acquisition-related intangible CPW Europe Acquisition, is a judgemental process which requires assets, including the allocation to cash generating units, described estimates concerning the future cash flows and associated discount in note 10 to the Group financial statements, and more specifically rates and growth rates based on managements view of future the cash flow projections, discount rates and long-term growth business prospects.
rates used against our understanding of the future prospects of the business and the prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Closure of French operations The Group announced its planned exit from the French retail We tested the design and implementation of the controls operating market in April 2013.
As part of this exit, the Group has completed around the accounting for the closure.
We reviewed the associated necessary restructuring activities and a disposal programme in contractual agreements as part of this disposal as well as substantively respect of its store portfolio, for which consideration of onerous testing a sample of costs incurred through the year.
For those lease contracts and asset impairment was required.
As this process provisions remaining at year end, we have compared management is ongoing, this requires significant judgement and use ofassumptions assumptions to contractual agreements and recent market data.
by management in respect ofthe quantum oftheassociated provisions.
Taxation The Group operates in a number of different tax jurisdictions.
We used our internal tax specialists to evaluate and test Thenature of the Groups operations and related transactions managements assumptions in respect of tax-related provisions, cangive rise to uncertain tax treatments, including with respect including assessment against local tax legislation and review totransfer pricing, thereby requiring the use of estimates and ofsupporting documentation.
assumptions which may be subsequently challenged by the relevant tax authorities.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 39.
At the Company level we also tested the consolidation process andcarried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the thatthere were no significant risks of material misstatement context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not intheaggregated financial information of the remaining to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our components not subject to audit.
opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion The Group audit team is directly responsible for the audit of the UK on these individual matters.
component, which is the largest.
In addition, the Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits to overseas OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY components that has been designed so that a senior member of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the theGroup audit team visits the most significant locations each year.
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic In the year ended 29 March 2014, the three largest overseas component decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed locations were visited by a senior member of the Group audit team.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our In years when we do not visit a particular significant component we will audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their We determined materiality for the Group to be 6m, which is below 5% risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from of Headline profit before tax, and below 2% of equity.
In using Headline their work.
profit before tax, we have followed the Groups definition ofHeadline OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES and non-Headline results on page 68.
We have assessed the use ACT 2006 ofa Headline measure to be appropriate as this continues tobe a In our opinion: key driver of business value, is a critical component of the financial statements and the main measure which management uses the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly tomonitor the performance of the business and communicate prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and thistoshareholders.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Other Statutory Information on page 54 for the financial year for which We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Committee all audit differences identified in excess of 120,000, as financial statements.
well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing BYEXCEPTION the overall presentation of the financial statements.
ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ANDACCOUNTINGRECORDS Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, theGroup and its environment, including Group-wide controls, inour opinion: andassessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group we have not received all the information and explanations we level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope require for our audit: or primarily on audit work at eight locations, being the retail operations in the UK, France, Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, Portugal and the insurance operations in Ireland.
Each of these or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from components requires a local statutory audit.
In addition, a full scope branches not visited by us: or audit was completed on the Groups joint venture, Virgin Mobile France.
the Company financial statements are not in agreement These eight locations, and Virgin Mobile France, represent the principal withtheaccounting records and returns.
business units and account for approximately 95% of the Groups revenue.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the eight locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 58 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BYEXCEPTION continued An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and DIRECTORS REMUNERATION disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in assurance that the financial statements are free from material our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes been made or the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited is anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been nothing to report arising from these matters.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Ifwe become INTHEANNUALREPORT aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are we consider the implications for our report.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or John Adam Senior Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors inthecourse of performing our audit: or London, United Kingdom otherwise misleading.
25 June 2014 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members asa body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions wehave formed.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 59
