142 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of TSB Banking Group plc Our opinion In our opinion, TSB Banking Group plcs consolidated financial statements the financial statements : give atrue and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited TSB Banking Group plcs financial statements comprise the: consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include asummary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 11.8 million which represents 1% of total revenue.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group.
As the Group outsources many of its IT systems to service providers, we obtained reports from their auditors about their control environments.
We determined, in light of those reports, the extent and nature of the detailed testing that we needed to perform at TSB.
Areas of focus Credit risk and impairment provisioning.
Revenue recognition Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting.
Financial reporting impact of separation from Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, wealso addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented arisk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as awhole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not acomplete list of all risks identified by our audit.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 143 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Credit risk and impairment provisioning See page 109 of the financial statements for the Directors We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness disclosure of the related accounting policies and also page 51 of the controls over the data inputs and governance of the models forthe Audit Committees consideration of principal risks.
We focused on this area because the Directors make complex Following our testing of the controls, we did not amend the nature and subjective judgements over both timing of recognition of and extent of our planned audit testing.
provisions for impairment of its loans and advances and the Our detailed work in auditing the impairment provisions included: estimate of the size of any such impairment.
testing key assumptions used within the models to internal and The impairment provision of 86.1 million was calculated on external information: amodelled basis for portfolios of loans and advances.
This comparing the principal assumptions within the models with our includes post model adjustments.
knowledge of other banks and historical experience within TSB: The Group applies judgement in selecting appropriate checking that the calculation methodology within each of assumptions in calculating the impairment provisions.
These the models was in line with accepted practice and include the expectation of loss once acustomer has defaulted accounting standards: and the expectation of the numbers of customers who are reading the model calculation scripts to check that their impaired but have not shown signs of their impairment.
The application was consistent with our understanding of the Group also applies Post Model Adjustments PMAs to the model methodologies: outputs of the models in calculating the total provision recognised, these are judgemental in nature and reflect emerging examining the basis for the further adjustments made to the trends or issues not captured in the models.
results produced by those models, exercising scepticism of the motivation behind the adjustments: and we also challenged the Group on the completeness of their modelling approach from our industry knowledge of model methodologies and common areas of model adjustment.
We found the Groups year end impairment provision to be consistent with the requirements of accounting standards.
Revenue recognition Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting See page 114 of the financial statements for the Directors We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the controls disclosure of the related accounting policies and also page 51 over the transfer of data from the source banking systems to the forthe Audit Committees consideration of principal risks.
This provided us comfort that interest and fees were correctly accounted for in the general ledger accounts.
Our We focused our work in relation to revenue recognition on testing of the controls did not identify any weaknesses that would EIRaccounting due to the inherent subjectivity involved in cause us to change our audit approach.
determining the appropriate period across which to spread the revenue and the resultant adjustment that is reflected in the We then traced the amounts of the EIR adjustments recognised in current years revenue and the potential that this may have the year from the calculation spreadsheets to the general ledger.
amaterial impact in any one accounting period.
Where the net EIR asset was material e. g. for Savings products, The most significant balance of the net EIR asset of 17.5 million we used our industry expertise and knowledge to independently related to Savings products of 16.6 million.
The most significant recompute the expected EIR adjustment, using our own factor that drives customer behaviour in terms of moving their independently formed assumptions about future interest rate savings from one product to another, and hence, affects the movements and compared this with the Groups adjustment.
unwind of the EIR balance is changes in interest rates.
Where management had applied judgement in determining future Forecasting future interest rate movements and estimating the customer behaviour, we assessed the consistency of their EIR adjustment is, inherently amatter of judgement and hence, adjustment with other internal and market information.
there is arisk of material misstatement.
Our testing did not find any material matters that we considered necessary to report to the Audit Committee.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 144 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Financial reporting impact of separation from Lloyds Banking Group LBG See page 116 of the financial statements for the Directors For the pension gain, we assessed the accounting for this disclosure of the related accounting policies for further information.
transaction to ensure it was compliant with accounting standards.
We focused on this area because of the complexity and unusual In our assessment we gave consideration to whether this nature of transactions which require accounting judgement that transaction could be accounted for as acontribution to capital.
have been brought about by the separation from LBG.
Our Weagreed that the transaction is appropriately accounted as specific areas of attention related to the: again through the income statement and that this is compliant withaccounting standards.
defined benefit pension scheme gain: and With respect to the DTA, we assessed the appropriateness of the deferred tax asset DTA and unwind of this due to the Part VII valuation and eight year unwind period applied with reference to mortgage transfers.
correspondence from HMRC and the output of independent The defined benefit pension scheme gain recognised in the valuations, obtained by the Group, over the fair value of the income statement of 63.7 million was material and the transferred portfolio.
We were satisfied with the methodology interpretation of the accounting standards in treating the applied in arriving at the valuation.
It arose because, during the year, We challenged the Groups medium term forecast profitability TSBstaff exited legacy LBG defined benefit pension schemes assumptions used to support the DTA valuation and tested for and became members of the TSB defined contribution scheme.
evidence of bias and developments in the economic environment The initial DTA recognised of 121.6 million was material and and business since the plan was approved.
To do this, we theselection of asuitable unwind period required judgement.
considered the key assumptions underpinning the forecast, being Furthermore the asset valuation was supported by forward loans and customer deposits growth.
We also considered the looking profitability projections, which are inherently subjective.
future growth assumptions in the context of economic forecastsavailable.
We then applied reasonable sensitivities to these key assumptions within the medium term plan to determine how much they would need to change before an impairment of the DTA was caused.
Based on our sensitivity analysis, we determined that the likelihood of an impairment driven by errors in the estimates was low.
Conduct risk provisions See page 132 of the financial statements for the Directors We assessed conduct risk in light of our industry experience and disclosure of the related accounting policies and also page 51 knowledge of certain areas of known mis-selling.
forthe Audit Committees consideration of principal risks.
We tested the approach used in calculating the conduct risk Conduct risk is asignificant point of focus across the banking provisions to make sure it was supported by accounting standards industry and the calculation of the related provisions is an and market practice.
We read the relevant clauses in the agreement in place between Judgement is required both in identifying areas of mis-selling and LBG and the Group in respect of the settlement and responsibility then in estimating aprovision in respect of the customers who for legacy conduct claims.
may be affected by the issue.
We assessed the assumptions used in calculating the estimated Although the Group has arrangements in place with LBG in provisions relating to conduct risk of 22.2 million, which included regards to legacy conduct claims, the agreement is complex and the likely future levels of claims, the rate at which claims were requires adetailed analysis of the nature of the issue, customers being approved and the average value of settlements and redress.
and when the mis-selling took place before any claims can be We requested and read underlying customer data to test the made by TSB to LBG.
assumptions and also considered the rate at which claims were The Group identified material areas relating to the historic sales being made.
of Added Value Accounts, Payment Protection Insurance, We found the Groups provision in respect of conduct risk to be Interest Rate Hedging Products and Credit Card Protection calculated consistently with their stated approach and supported products and recognised aprovision of 22.2 million.
We challenged the Group on common areas of mis-selling affecting UK banks and did not identify any that were not already considered by management that would have amaterial impact.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 145 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Hedge accounting See page 125 of the financial statements for the Directors We read the hedge documentation in the context of the disclosure of the related accounting policies.
requirements of IAS 39 and our knowledge of hedge accounting within the banking industry and considered it to be compliant with In order to reduce the income statement volatility associated the requirements of IFRS and hence, to support the relationships withthe valuation of derivatives used for hedging interest rate designated as hedges.
risk, the Group designated anumber of hedge relationships from 1January 2014 notably hedging interest rate risk within the fixed We tested each type of hedge relationship and selected asample rate product and Treasury portfolios.
Compliance with IAS 39 of models that are used by the Group to support hedge requires anumber of factors to be considered, including the effectiveness.
From this sample we: demonstration of retrospective and prospective Traced the inputs of the hedge effectiveness models to hedgeeffectiveness.
supporting documentation or to source systems around which Complying with the detailed requirements of the standard is we had satisfactorily tested the controls: complex, especially with regard to the models used to calculate Understood the basis of the hedge effectiveness calculation historic hedge effectiveness.
If compliance with the accounting being performed by the model: and standards cannot be demonstrated there would be amaterial Independently re-performed the hedge effectiveness impact to the financial statements.
calculation, including consideration of the models valuation of the hedged items and derivatives.
For relationships where hedge ineffectiveness had been identified by the Group, we checked that this had been recognised in the income statement in line with the requirements of IAS 39.
Our testing did not find any material matters which we considered necessary to report to the Audit Committee.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as awhole, taking into account the different operating locations of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, the impact of material outsourced service providers, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As part of our risk assessment we assessed the control environment in place at the Groups material outsourced service providers to the extent relevant for our audit.
The Group relies on these providers for key IT systems and controls.
Our assessment involved obtaining and reading the relevant controls reports, issued by the auditors of the providers, in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work, to gain an understanding of the service providers control environments and to consider the operating and accounting structure at the entities.
Following this assessment we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
The Group is structured into two segments: Franchise and Mortgage Enhancement.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as awhole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as awhole as follows: Overall Group materiality 11.8 million.
How we determined it 1% of total revenue.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark as revenue growth is akey performance measure against which the Group is assessed and is currently more appropriate than profit before taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 590,000 aswell as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 146 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial statements continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 82, in relation to going concern.
Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
In drawing this conclusion, the Directors have considered the regulatory capital position of the Group as well as the funding and liquidity position of the Group.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not aguarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as agoing concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance statement as set out on pages 42 to 47 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors on page 83, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report arising the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report from this responsibility.
taken as awhole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 51, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report arising describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, acorporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the parent companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 147 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UKand Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as abody in accordance withChapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may comesave where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or acombination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matters We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of TSB Banking Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Allan McGrath Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 24 February 2015 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
