Independent Auditors Report to the Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc Members of Tullett Prebon plc Opinion on Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon plc In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the related Notes 1 to 38, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and related Notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 26 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
50 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 50 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risks How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition of PVM Oil Associates Limited As detailed on page 93, the Group completed the acquisition of PVM We have audited managements accounting for the acquisition, Oil Associates Limited and its subsidiaries PVM on 26 November specifically focusing on the identification and fair valuation of the 2014.
The acquisition has resulted in a number of areas of significant net assets acquired.
management judgement or accounting complexity, which include: Management appointed valuation specialists to assist with the the identification of 9.5m of separately identifiable acquired identification and valuation of acquired intangible assets.
We used intangible assets: and our own internal valuation specialists to provide expert challenge to managements assessment.
This included particular focus on the the estimation of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired completeness and valuation of separately identifiable intangible and subsequent recognition of 51.7m of goodwill.
Revenue recognition Matched Principal revenue We tested controls relating to trade recording, settlement and the recognition of revenue associated with Matched Principal transactions.
As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on page 61, Matched Principal brokerage revenue is the net proceeds from a We selected a sample of trades which settled within standard commitment to simultaneously buy and sell financial instruments settlement periods and confirmed each to cash receipts.
For all open with counterparties, which is recognised on trade date.
It accounts trades at year end which did not settle within the standard settlement for approximately 20% of Group revenue.
period or where settlement failed, we confirmed trades to post year end confirmations to confirm the validity of the year end settlement Given the high volume of transactions, robust internal controls debtors and creditors and accuracy of the associated revenue.
over trade recording and settlement are important to ensure the completeness and accuracy of revenues.
Most Matched Principal transactions settle within a standard market settlement period, which is typically within two to three business days.
The risk of misstatement of revenues increases where trades fail to settle within the standard market settlement period.
We tested controls relating to Name Passing invoicing and cash Name Passing revenue collection.
As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on page 61, Name Passing revenue is earned for the service of matching of We confirmed a sample of trades to cash received throughout the buyers and sellers of financial instruments.
The counterparties to a year and a further sample of Name Passing transactions, which were transaction settle directly with each other and are invoiced for the outstanding at year end, to cash received post year end.
We tested the service provided by the Group.
It accounts for approximately 75% of aged debtor analysis through re-performance and, focusing on higher Group revenue.
risk aged items, we confirmed that revenue recognised on the transaction was supportable by obtaining evidence to corroborate the As invoices for services provided are not issued until the end of the validity of the underlying trade and reviewing communications with month, the cash collection period is typically longer than for Matched counterparties.
We tested a selection of post year end trade Principal revenue.
As a result, the risk of misstatement of revenue adjustments and credit notes.
increases where the invoice becomes past due and where post year end trade adjustments or credit notes arise.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 51 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 51 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Independent Auditors Report to the Members of TullettPrebon plc continued Tullett Prebon plc continued Risks How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on pages We performed detailed analysis and challenge of managements 63 and 64, Note 13 on page 76 and Note 14 on page 77, goodwill and assumptions, in particular the cash flow projections and discount rates other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
used by management in their impairment tests of the CGUs.
Determining whether the goodwill of 327.1m, other intangible assets of 20.1m and other intangible assets arising on consolidation of We paid particular attention to the North American business, which 9.5m are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount has 57.5m of goodwill allocated, and the impairment of the carrying of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs, using the higher of the value of the Brazil business.
These CGUs are more sensitive to changes value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
in key assumptions as the headroom is lower in the North America CGU and such changes may impact the size of the impairment charge The value in use takes into account expected future cash flows, the for the Brazil CGU.
selection of suitable discount rates and forecast future growth rates and is therefore inherently subjective.
The value in use of all CGUs is We challenged cash flow forecasts and growth rates by evaluating sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions.
recent performance, trend analysis and comparing growth rates to those achieved historically and to external market data where The value in use method was used to assess the recoverable amount of available.
Our internal valuations specialists independently derived each CGU.
The fair value less costs to sell method was also used to discount rates which we compared to the rates used by management.
assess the Brazil CGU, where an impairment of 6.8m was recorded in We also benchmarked discount and growth rates to available external the year.
peer group data and considered the sensitivity of managements impairment tests to changes in assumptions.
We have challenged managements assumptions in estimating the fair value less costs to sell, and hence the recoverable amount, of the Brazil CGU and we have independently considered the appropriateness of the impairment charge recorded.
Taxation As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on Using our tax specialists, we assessed relevant developments in pages 66 and 67, the Group has taken account of tax issues that are respect of each of the Groups outstanding tax issues, including those subject to ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities in arising from the acquisition of PVM.
determining its current tax liability of 12.3m and deferred tax liability of 24.1m.
An assessment of the likely outcome is required in We have reviewed correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, determining the carrying value of tax liabilities.
challenged the judgements made by management and independently considered the likely outcomes and technical tax treatments to assess the reasonableness of the provisions made.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the financial reporting judgements considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 33 and 34.
The only new risk in 2014 relates to the acquisition of PVM.
In 2014, we have focused the risk relating to revenue recognition on Matched Principal and Name Passing revenues.
These comprise the majority of the Groups revenue and therefore have a higher risk of misstatement and the greatest effect on our audit strategy.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
52 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 52 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.3m, which is based on 5% of underlying profit before tax of 86.6m and is below 1% of equity.
Prior year materiality was 8.4m, which was based on 10% of reported profit before tax and was below 3% of equity.
The percentage of profit has been reduced to align more closely with the basis of materiality used by auditors of comparable listed companies.
Underlying profit before tax has been determined by excluding exceptional and acquisition related items, which are detailed on page 71.
These items have been excluded from our determination of materiality as they do not reflect the ongoing trading performance of the business.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2013: 0.2m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit of 23 subsidiaries in 11 locations 2013: 22 subsidiaries in 11 locations which were deemed to be significant components.
All of these were subject to a full audit.
The only change to our audit scope is due to the acquisition of PVM and the inclusion of the main UK based trading entity of PVM as a new significant component.
These 23 subsidiaries represent the principal business units within each of the three operating segments and account for 93% 2013: 94% of the Groups net assets, 96% 2013: 97% of the Groups revenue and 93% 2013: 95% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit of each component was performed at a materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The materiality of each component ranged from 2.3m to 2.9m, which is lower than Group materiality.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is directly responsible for the audit of all UK significant components and has responsibility for overseeing all aspects of the audit work of the component auditors in other locations.
In discharging this responsibility, he visited the US twice and Singapore once during the audit to meet local management and oversee the audits of the components based in the Americas and Asia.
The Group audit team maintains a dialogue with component auditors throughout all phases of the audit and receives written clearance memorandums from every significant component auditor setting out the results of their audit procedures.
In addition the Group audit team performed analytical procedures over the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 53 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Independent Auditors Report to the Members of TullettPrebon plc continued Tullett Prebon plc continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 3 March 2015 54 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 54 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information C onsolidated Income Statement Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 for the year ended 31 December 2014 Exceptional and acquisition Underlying related items Total Notes m m m 2014 Revenue 4 703.5 703.5 Administrative expenses 6 607.9 69.1 677.0 Other operating income 5 5.1 16.0 21.1 Operating profit 100.7 53.1 47.6 Finance income 8 3.6 3.6 Finance costs 9 17.7 17.7 Profit before tax 86.6 53.1 33.5 Taxation 10 16.9 6.5 10.4 Profit of consolidated companies 69.7 46.6 23.1 Share of results of associates 1.9 1.9 Profit for the year 6 71.6 46.6 25.0 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 71.2 46.6 24.6 Minority interests 0.4 0.4 71.6 46.6 25.0 Earnings per share Basic 11 32.3p 11.2p Diluted 11 32.3p 11.2p 2013 Revenue 4 803.7 803.7 Administrative expenses 6 699.3 15.2 714.5 Other operating income 5 11.0 11.0 Operating profit 115.4 15.2 100.2 Finance income 83.7 3.7 Finance costs 9 19.5 19.5 Profit before tax 99.6 15.2 84.4 Taxation 10 22.4 2.4 20.0 Profit of consolidated companies 77.2 12.8 64.4 Share of results of associates 1.4 1.4 Profit for the year 6 78.6 12.8 65.8 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 78.4 12.8 65.6 Minority interests 0.2 0.2 65.8 78.6 12.8 Earnings per share Basic 11 36.0p 30.1p Diluted 11 36.0p 30.1p Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 55 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 55
