Independent Auditors Report to the members of Witan Investment Trust plc Opinion on financial statements of Witan Investment Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Trust plc As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, in addition In our opinion: to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied the financial statements give a true and fair view of IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys Board IASB.
aairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit{for the year then ended: In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Going concern Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the European Union: directors statement contained within the Strategic Report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: t he parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted t he directors use of the going concern basis of by the European Union and as applied in accordance accounting in the preparation of the financial with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and statements is appropriate: and the financial statements have been prepared in we h ave not identied any material uncertainties that accordance with the requirements of the Companies may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial continue as a going concern.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be The financial statements comprise the Consolidated predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and ability to continue as a going concern.
Individual Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Consolidated and Individual Company Balance Sheets, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Consolidated and Individual Company Cash Flow Statements The assessed risks of material misstatement described below and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, framework that has been applied in their preparation is the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union efforts of the engagement team: and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
58 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of investments of the Group To test the valuation of investments as at 31 December 2014, The investments balance of 1.55 billion is the most we performed the following: quantitatively significant balance on the balance sheet for all equity investments with prices quoted in an and{is an area of focus because it is the main driver active market, valued at 1.4 billion, we agreed the bid of the{Groups performance.
There is a risk that the prices to{an independent pricing source: investments{are not recorded at their fair value, as described{in accounting policy 1 h. veried the trading activity and volume, on a sample basis, of investments held around the year end to assess the liquidity of investments: we critically assessed the valuation techniques applied to Other Investments, 107 million, and obtained evidence to corroborate valuations used.
Ownership of investments To test the ownership of investment balances as at 31{December 2014 we performed the following: The investment balance is the most quantitatively significant{balance on the balance sheet.
The risk that a ssessed the ownership of all investments at year end the Group does not hold the rights and obligations to by obtaining independent third party conrmations these investments could materially impact the financial directly from the custodians and agreeing them to statements.
the{schedule of investments held at year end.
We also reviewed the latest ISAE 3402 report on the custodians controls related to its custody of the Groups investments: and p erformed detailed testing on a sample of purchases and sales made during the year and performed testing on trades made around the year-end period to determine whether transactions have been recorded in{the correct period.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the audit committee discussed on page 42.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 59 Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement Act 2006 in the financial statements that makes it probable that the In our opinion: economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in t he part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the audited has been properly prepared in accordance results of our work.
with{the Companies Act 2006: and We determined materiality for the Group to be 14 million, t he information given in the Strategic Report and the which has been determined using 1% of total equity.
This is Directors Report for the financial year for which the a change of approach from 2013, where we used materiality financial statements are prepared is consistent with of 41million which was around 3% of total equity.
We have the{financial statements.
changed the percentage following emerging market practice and changing investor expectations.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the Committee all known audit errors in excess of 10,000 to{you if, in our opinion: 2013: 10,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in{our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
we h ave not received all the information and We{also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters explanations we require for our audit: or that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of{the financial statements.
ad equate accounting records have not been kept by the{parent company, or returns adequate for our audit An overview of the scope of our audit have not been received from branches not visited by Our audit scope was determined by obtaining an us:{or understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material t he parent company financial statements are not in misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material agreement with the accounting records and returns.
misstatement for all entities in the Group was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Our Group audit scope included the audit of Witan Directors remuneration Investment Services Limited WIS and this was subject to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors audit of WIS was performed for local statutory purposes at remuneration have not been made or the part of the the level of materiality applicable to the entity, which was Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in lower than Group materiality.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We{have{nothing to report arising from these matters.
As the accounting is performed by service organisations, we{obtained an understanding of how the Group uses Corporate Governance Statement service{organisations in its operations and evaluated Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the the design and implementation of relevant controls at part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group{that relate to the services provided by service the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK organisations.
We reviewed the latest reports on internal Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report controls from the service organisations and contacted arising from our review.
them{directly to obtain specific information we needed to conduct our audit.
60 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report This report is made solely to the Companys members, Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken in the annual report is: so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors m aterially inconsistent with the information in the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent audited financial statements: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys appare ntly materially incorrect based on, or materially members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired the opinions we have formed.
in the course of performing our audit: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements otherwise misleading.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to In particular, we are required to consider whether we have give reasonable assurance that the financial statements identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge are free from material misstatement, whether caused by acquired during the audit and the directors statement fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the and understandable and whether the Annual Report parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been significant accounting estimates made by the directors: disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities to identify any information that is apparently materially Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing implications for our report.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor We also comply with International Standard on Quality for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are London, United Kingdom effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review 10 March 2015 team, and independent partner reviews.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 61
