231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 43 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of Worldwide Opinion on financial statements Healthcare Trust PLC for the year ended 31 March 2014 which In our opinion the financial statements: comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs Movement in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the as at 31 March 2014 and of its profit for the year then Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 19.
The ended: financial reporting framework that has been applied in their have been properly prepared in accordance with United preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a the Companies Act 2006. body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so We identified the following risks of material misstatement that that we might state to the Companys members those matters had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we the engagement team: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Valuation of the investment portfolio.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Valuation of derivative assets and liabilities.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Maintenance of investment trust status.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Calculation of management and performance fees.
Statement set out on page 29, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Our application of materiality satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified accordance with applicable law and International Standards on misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to if any, on the financial statements and in forming our audit comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards opinion in the Auditors Report.
When establishing our overall for Auditors.
audit strategy, we determined materiality for the Company to be 6.4 million, which is 1% of total equity.
This provided a Scope of the audit of the financial statements basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free extent of further audit procedures.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for the Company should be 75% of materiality, namely statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non- 4.8 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to financial information in the annual report to identify material ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to in the financial statements did not exceed our materiality level.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect We have reported to the Audit Committee all audit differences based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge in excess of 0.3 million, as well as differences below that acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative become aware of any apparent material misstatements or grounds.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
43 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 44 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit An overview of the scope of our audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Companys financial statements, our response was as Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to follows: you if, in our opinion: we agreed year end prices for quoted and unquoted adequate accounting records have not been kept, or investments to an independent source: returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or we independently revalued the derivative instruments and compared to the Companys valuation, confirming there the financial statements and the part of the Directors were no material differences individually or in aggregate: Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we reviewed the Companys compliance with sections 1158 of the corporation Tax Act: and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we re-performed the calculation of management and performance fees and agreed the inputs to audited source we have not received all the information and explanations data and service agreements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the Directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to In our opinion: going concern: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by Amarjit Singh Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor exception London We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 6 June 2014 Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Worldwide Healthcare materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Trust PLC web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the financial statements: or work carried out by the auditors does not involve apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may in the course of performing our audit: or have occurred to the financial statements since they were otherwise misleading.
initially presented on the web site.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge preparation and dissemination of financial statements may acquired during the audit and the directors statement that differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately 44 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
