Independent auditors report To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc Opinion on financial statements of Zoopla Property Group plc of cash flows, the consolidated and parent company statement of In our opinion: changes in equity and the related Notes 1 to 26 to the consolidated f the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the financial statements and Notes 1 to 9 to the parent company financial groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2014 statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied andof the groups profit for the year then ended: intheir preparation is applicable law and IFRSs asadopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial f the group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards theCompanies Act 2006.
IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: Going concern f the parent company financial statements have been properly As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European statement contained on page 64 that the group is a going concern.
Union andasapplied in accordance with the provisions of the We confirm that: Companies Act 2006: and f we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern f the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group isappropriate: and financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
f we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant The financial statements comprise of the consolidated statement of doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statement of financial position, the consolidated and parent company statement However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources inthe audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue Recognition completeness In order to address the risk of revenue completeness we have: Revenue primarily consists of recurring subscription payments inreturn i understood Managements processes and controls in respect for property listings on the Groups websites.
Individual contracts exist ofthe appropriate recognition of revenue, including testing the with each customer with a range of different terms and conditions, and design and implementation of those controls.
Our work focused, as a result there are a significant number of agreements.
Consequently inparticular on the arrangements put in place by Management there is a risk that customer subscription agreements may not be toensure billing of customers in line with contractual terms: appropriately captured and accounted for inline with underlying contractual terms and hence the revenue population may not be complete.
ii identified and investigated anomalies in billing patterns for specific customers to check that billing runs and hence revenue are complete: and iii checked that for a sample of customer contracts, that revenue hasbeen appropriately recognised in line with the contractual terms and IAS 18.
66 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for share-based payment arrangements We have assessed the accounting treatment for both warrants and includingwarrants employee share option schemes to ensure that they are in line with The Group has a number of share-based payment arrangements, IFRS 2, involving consideration of the appropriate vesting period for which include warrants issued to certain estate agents and share each scheme pre and post IPO.
incentive plans for management and employees.
The warrant We have critically assessed and evaluated Managements assumptions instruments are complex and involve a commitment to list properties and valuation methodology, using specialists where necessary for inreturn for commercially agreed subscription fees.
The fair value themore complex schemes.
We have agreed key inputs used within ofthe warrant is based on the fair value at the time of grant and valuation models to internal and external sources, benchmarked thisinvolves Management judgement.
For the share incentive plans, these underlying assumptions against external data and internal Management judgement is also required for the inputs to the historical trends to check that they are reasonable and supportable.
valuationmodel and the underlying assumptions.
We obtained the share-based payment calculations and performed There is a risk that these complex instruments may not be valued audit procedures to determine the accuracy of the IFRS 2 charge, correctly, and subsequently not accounted for appropriately in aswell as considering whether the disclosure in Note 21 meets accordance with IFRS 2. therequirements of IFRS 2.
Group reorganisation and IPO For the Group reorganisation we reviewed the accounting entries Accounting for group reorganisation prior to the IPO and costs directly prepared by management, involved technical experts, and tested incurred in relation to the IPO were significant matters that required theaccounting entries to supporting documentation.
For the IPO costs, we confirmed by reference to invoices and other The accounting for the Group reorganisation, in the absence of any supporting documentation, that the costs classified as exceptional prescribed accounting treatment for common control transactions directly related to the IPO.
under IFRS, required management to adopt the principles of FRS 6 and involved the use of merger relief and the creation of a non-distributable merger reserve in the new parent company.
This item leads to material accounting entries, particularly in the parent company financial statements and, therefore, there is a risk that incorrect application of the accounting principles leads to a misleading presentation of the reserves available for distribution.
Directly attributable IPO costs totalling 5.6 million have been separately disclosed as exceptional items, which is a non-GAAP measure.
This item is a material disclosure in the financial statements and, therefore, there is a risk of inappropriate classification distorting the performance shown in the Income statement.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the pages33 and 34.
Committee all audit differences in excess of 30,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion presentation of the financial statements.
on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these An overview of the scope of our audit individual matters.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing Our application of materiality the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Our audit scope We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial covers 100% of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there inevaluating the results of our work.
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit We determined materiality for the group to be 1.5 million, which is 5% or audit of specified account balances.
of pre-tax profit, and below 2% of equity.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 67 Independent auditors report continued To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, thedirectors are responsible for the preparation of the financial f the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
hasbeen properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Act2006: and statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards f the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Report for the financial year for which the financial statements with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
areprepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Wealso comply with International Standard on Quality Control UK andIreland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that Matters on which we are required to report by exception ourquality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, standards review team and independent partner reviews.
inour opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, f we have not received all the information and explanations we inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. require for our audit: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them f adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone from branches not visited by us: or other than the company and the companys members as a body, for f the parent company financial statements are not in agreement our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
withthe accounting records and returns.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Directors remuneration in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited policies are appropriate to thegroups and the parent companys isnot in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately nothing to report arising from these matters.
disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Corporate Governance Statement statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, nothing to report arising from our review.
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Ifwe become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: f materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Mark Lee-Amies Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP f apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing London our audit: or 24 November 2014 f otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
68 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014
