Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of Centamin plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Centamin plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS : and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited Centamin plcs financial statements comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: US$7.7 million which represents a threeyear average of 5% of profit before tax, after exceptional items.
All audit work on the areas of focus was performed by the Group audit engagement team.
We focused our audit work on the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt and its holding company, Pharoah Gold Mines.
This involved three site visits to the Groups Egyptian operations during the course of the audit.
The appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court in Egypt concerning the validity of the Sukari Concession Agreement.
Accounting for the Groups interest in Sukari Gold Mine.
Impairment of the Sukari Gold Mine.
The claim before the Administrative Court concerning diesel fuel disputes.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 95 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus The appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court in Egypt We read legal advice from the Groups external legal counsel concerning the validity of the Sukari Concession Agreement regarding the risk that the Group may not succeed in its appeal against the Administrative Court and met with the Groups internal Refer to pages 115 and 127 Notes 4 and 20 to the financial and external legal counsel to evaluate the directors assessment of the statements and page 42 principal risks and uncertainties.
outcome of the court case.
Centamin is in the process of appealing a ruling passed by the We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of internal Egyptian Administrative Court in October 2012. and external legal counsel by considering professional qualifications, If the ruling is upheld, the Groups operations at the Sukari site will fee arrangements and other relevant factors.
be significantly reduced and there is, therefore, a risk of material We also obtained a copy of the Concession Agreement, as signed by impairment in property, plant and equipment at Sukari, which had a the relevant parties.
carrying value of US$999.7 million at 31 December 2014.
The directors have assessed that the Groups case has strong legal The outcome of this case is subject to significant uncertainty due to merit and will ultimately be successful.
Based on our work, we ongoing political, social and economic volatility in Egypt.
determined that the directors had reflected all available information in their assessment.
We tested the disclosures in Note 20 to the financial statements and determined that they were consistent with the requirements of IFRS and the results of our audit work.
Accounting for the Groups interest in Sukari Gold Mine Through the procedures set out below, we considered and challenged the directors assessment of control, based on the recognition Refer to pages 107 and 128 Notes 3 and 21 to the financial principles set out in IFRS 10. statements and page 42 principal risks and uncertainties.
We read the signed Concession Agreement between the Group The Group, through its interest in Pharoah Gold Mines NL PGM, and the Arab Republic of Egypt and determined that the facts is a 50% shareholder in Sukari Gold Mining Company SGM, the of the arrangement, including commercial terms, were reflected holder of the Sukari Concession Agreement and operator of Sukari appropriately in the directors assessment.
The remaining 50% is owned by the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority EMRA.
We read the bylaws of SGM and assessed the impact of these on the arrangement.
We examined Board meeting minutes to understand the There is an accounting judgment as to whether, for the purposes of practical application of these bylaws and the Concession Agreement.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 10, the Group We then completed a thorough analysis of the requirements of controls SGM, or whether joint control exists as defined by IFRS 11 IFRS 10, including the directors assessment of power and, therefore, Joint arrangements IFRS 11. the balance of substantive and protective rights present in the The directors determined that the Group controls SGM and arrangement.
The evidence we obtained supported the directors should therefore consolidate 100% of its assets, liabilities and results assessment that the Group has power over SGM.
This determination included consideration We confirmed, by reading the Concession Agreement, that the of whether the Group had power over SGM, exposure or rights to Group is, and will continue to be, exposed and have the right to variable returns from its involvement in SGM and its ability to use its variable returns.
power over SGM to affect the amount of those returns.
Based on the procedures above, we also confirmed that the Group Were SGM to be treated as jointly controlled, this would result in SGM has the ability to use its power over SGM to affect the amount of being accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, its returns.
as a result, different recognition, presentation and disclosure in the financial statements.
The evidence we obtained supported the directors assessment that the Group controls SGM.
96 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of the Sukari Gold Mine We assessed whether any potential impairment indicators, including those identified by the directors, had occurred.
To this end, we Refer to pages 107, 115 and 123 Notes 3, 4 and 12 to the financial performed the following procedures: statements and page 42 principal risks and uncertainties.
we obtained consensus gold pricing data and compared this to The Sukari mine is the only producing asset within the Group.
the pricing included in the directors assessment, finding that Following an impairment assessment in the prior year, prompted by a changes in gold prices during 2014 were not sufficient to indicate decrease in the gold price, the directors have considered whether any that an impairment review was needed: of the following further indicators have occurred in the year: we used our valuation expertise to assess whether the reduction significant adverse movements in world gold prices: in the discount rate considered in the indicator assessment was a material change in the factors affecting the discount rate, such as within a reasonable range, taking into account a country risk country risk premium: or premium for Egypt and found that it was: significant underperformance against budget.
we determined that, despite a shortfall in gold production The directors have concluded that none of these or any other against stated market guidance, there had been no significant indicators of impairment has occurred in the year and therefore that underperformance against budget: no impairment review is necessary.
we determined that there had been no material reduction in In the absence of a formal impairment assessment, there is a risk that reserves and resources: and any unidentified material impairment of the assets carrying value of we used our knowledge of the Group and of the mining industry US$999.7 million is not reflected in the financial statements.
to question whether any other events had occurred during the Consequently, we focused our work on the directors conclusions year that would give rise to an impairment indicator without regarding the occurrence of any impairment indicators, including identifying any.
Having tested the directors impairment indicator assessment, we concurred that, in spite of the ongoing low price of gold and lower than expected production, no impairment indicator had occurred in the year ended 31 December 2014.
The claim before the Administrative Court concerning diesel We read the legal advice obtained by the directors from their external fuel disputes legal counsel in connection with the legal case and held meetings with the Groups internal and external legal counsel.
We used this Refer to page 127 Note 20 to the financial statements and page 42 information to evaluate the directors assessment of the outcome principal risks and uncertainties.
Centamin is involved in an ongoing legal case relating to historical We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of internal and current fuel subsidies.
The potential amount that could be and external counsel, by considering professional qualifications, fee recouped by the Group relating to the current subsidy case is arrangements and other relevant factors.
US$165.7 million and the potential amount that the Group could have to pay if they lose the historical case is US$60.5 million.
The results of the procedures we performed, as described above, supported the directors accounting treatment, under which no liability To date, the Group has not provided for the historical case, based on was recognised in respect of the historical case and no asset was internal and external assessments of the merits of the case, but has recognised in respect of the current subsidy case.
made disclosure of a contingent liability.
We challenged the presentation of the impact of the difference In 2014, the Group has disclosed the impact of the current subsidy between international and subsidised diesel prices as an exceptional case, being the difference between international and subsidised item and concluded that it was still appropriate because of the diesel price that has impacted the Groups results for the year, as an strength of the Groups case.
exceptional item in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
No contingent asset has been recognised.
We also considered the sufficiency of the disclosure regarding the case and concluded that it was consistent with the requirements of IFRS and gave a balanced description of the cases.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 97 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including groupwide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at group level.
The Group is headquartered in Jersey and has production operations in Egypt, with exploration activity in Ethiopia, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Based on that assessment, our group audit scope focused primarily on the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, the Groups principal operation, which was subject to a fullscope audit, as was Pharoah Gold Mines, which holds the Groups interest in Sukari.
We made site visits to Sukari and conducted audit fieldwork in Alexandria.
During these visits, we observed and discussed mining operations, including how the Concession Agreement is managed, with local management and met with the Groups external incountry legal counsel in Cairo.
We also performed specific audit procedures on material balances in other Group companies in order to address identified risks and other matters.
Furthermore, we performed work over the consolidation of the Groups components and significant head office and consolidation adjustments.
All audit work was performed by the group audit team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality US$7.7 million.
How we determined it Threeyear average of 5% of profit before tax after exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We used the profit before tax after exceptional items benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice and took a threeyear average to eliminate the effects of gold price volatility.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$385,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
98 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Going concern The directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 3 of the Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 94, required for UK companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as if the Company were a premium listed UK company.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 94, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report arising UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken from this responsibility.
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on page 90, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report arising describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address from this responsibility.
matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 99 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc Adequacy of information and explanations received Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review Other voluntary reporting Opinions on additional disclosures Directors remuneration report The Company voluntarily prepares a directors remuneration report in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors have requested that we audit the part of the directors remuneration report specified by the Companies Act 2006 to be audited as if the Company were a quoted company.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Governance Statement The Company prepares a corporate governance statement that includes the information with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures required by the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The directors have requested that we report on the consistency of that information with the financial statements.
In our opinion, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 62 to 68 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 94, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
100 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Spilsbury for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor London 23 March 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the Centamin plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
