85 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CENTRICA PLC Report on the Financial Statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Our opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing Centrica plcs Group Financial Statements and Company Financial the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
Statements the Financial Statements give a true and fair view In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 31December 2014 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for estimates that involved making assumptions and considering the year then ended: future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in we also addressed the risk of management override of internal accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared due to fraud.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on Accounting Practice: and our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures What we have audited should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks Centrica plcs Financial Statements comprise: identified by our audit.
the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 101million 2013: 116million.
We conducted our audit work across the Groups locations including the UK, the Republic of Ireland, Europe, the US and Canada.
Senior members of the Group audit team performed site visits across the Groups locations.
Materiality This included the recent Bord Gis Energy acquisition in Dublin and the Hess Energy Marketing division of Direct Energy in New Jersey.
Visits were also made to Direct Energy in Houston, the Canadian exploration and production business and the significant parts of the UK business including British Gas and Centrica Energy.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 93% of Group revenues and 82% of Group profit before tax.
Audit scope Our areas of focus comprised: Impairment assessment Valuation of derivative transactions in commodity trading Presentation of exceptional items and certain re-measurements Area of Onerous contracts focus Downstream revenue recognition Pensions Decommissioning provisions Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 86 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment assessment The Group has 6.4billion of PP&E, the majority of which relates to gas We assessed and challenged the impairment analysis prepared production and storage assets and power generation assets: 2billion by the Directors.
of intangible assets and 2.6billion of goodwill, arising predominantly With regard to both the international exploration and production assets from historical acquisitions in Centrica Energy exploration and production and power generation assets, we focused on the Directors assertion that in Europe and Direct Energy in North America.
the fall in commodity prices has been the key driver of impairment.
We The value of Centricas assets is supported by either value in use did this through discussions with management to understand the basis calculations which are based on future cash flow forecasts or fair of their forecasts, comparing forecasts to available industry data and value less costs of disposal.
Market conditions in 2014 have been very performing sensitivity analysis on the assessments.
Falling oil prices have had a significant impact on the the Directors on the assessment of exceptional one-off drivers that have exploration and production business and outages and falling power impacted value as opposed to operational issues incurred in the normal prices have put pressure on power generation.
These unfavourable course of business.
macro-economic factors have heightened the possibility of a decline in We challenged the Directors assessment that the disposal of the the assets value in use and fair values.
As a result, taking account of Langage, Humber and Killingholme power stations was no longer highly declining oil, gas and power prices and expected future performance, the probable at the year end.
Based on the outcome of the first capacity Directors have determined that the exploration and production assets and market auction in December 2014 and the impact of this on the expected power generation assets, including the associated goodwill, are impaired.
bids compared with managements hold value, we were satisfied that this A total pre-tax impairment charge of 837million was recognised in assessment is appropriate.
As such we evaluated managements relation to the UK and Norwegian gas and oil assets, and a pre-tax assessment of the carrying amount on reclassification from assets held impairment charge of 43million was recognised on Canadian for sale based on their value in use.
The Directors have also recognised With regard to the overall impairment assessments performed by the a pre-tax impairment change of 309million in relation to gas assets Directors, we evaluated the design of internal controls in place to check in Trinidad and Tobago, including 70million of goodwill.
that the Groups assets are valued appropriately including those to In May 2014, the Groups three largest power stations, Langage, Humber determine any asset impairments or impairment reversals.
and Killingholme, were classified as a disposal group.
As at the year end We evaluated the Directors assumptions and estimates used to the Directors believe that the disposal was no longer highly probable and determine the recoverable value of the gas production and storage the value of the plants therefore will not be recovered through a assets, power generation assets, intangible assets, and goodwill.
Accordingly the assets have been reclassified out of assets This includes those relating to operating cost forecasts and expected held for sale and their carrying value determined on the basis of a value production profiles.
We tested these assumptions by reference to in use calculation.
third-party documentation where available and consultation with In assessing their value in use, as a result of declining clean spark operational management.
We utilised our specialised valuation spreads and reduced forecast capacity market auction prices, the Group knowledge to assess the commodity prices and discount rates used by has recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of 384million in relation the Directors.
We benchmarked these to external data and challenged to the Langage and Humber power stations, including 17million of the assumptions based on our knowledge of the Group and its industry.
A further pre-tax impairment charge of 164million was In addition we tested managements sensitivity and stress test scenarios recognised in relation to the other UK gas-fired power stations.
The and found they had applied appropriate judgement.
Group also recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of 214million on its Based on our analysis, the commodity prices, discount rates and the nuclear investment, due to declining forecasts of base load power prices assumptions used by management were in an acceptable range and and capacity market auction prices.
in line with the current market view and we did not identify any material The impairment assessments require significant judgement and there issues with the valuation of assets, the accuracy of the impairment is the risk that valuation of the assets may be incorrect and any potential charges and the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
This was therefore an area of focus for us.
Refer to pages 55 and 56 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and conclusions and notes 3, 7, 13, 15 and S2 in the Financial Statements.
Valuation of derivative transactions in commodity trading The Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to help protect We assessed the overall commodity trading process, including internal and optimise the value of its underlying production and storage assets, risk management procedures and the system and controls around power generation assets, and transportation assets as well as to meet origination and maintenance of complete and accurate information the future needs of customers.
We found the controls in place over this process to be operating effectively and therefore placed reliance on these Some of these arrangements are accounted for as derivative financial controls in our testing.
instruments and are recorded at fair value.
In addition, we tested the valuation of derivative contracts at the year-end Judgement is required in valuing these derivative contracts, particularly date which require the use of valuation models.
Our audit procedures where the life of the contract is beyond the liquid market period.
The fair focused on the integrity of these valuation models and the incorporation value calculation requires bespoke models to be used that are specific of the contract terms and the key assumptions, including future price to the derivative and, as such, we gave particular focus to the valuation assumptions and discount rates.
Our testing identified that the models of derivative contracts at the balance sheet date.
used to value the contracts were appropriate and we did not identify Refer to pages 55 and 56 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and any material issues over the valuation of derivative transactions.
conclusions and notes 3, 7, 19 and S6 in the Financial Statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Presentation of exceptional items and certain re-measurements For each of the material exceptional items we considered managements The middle column of the Group Income Statement represents exceptional analyses of why they were determined to be exceptional and performed items and certain re-measurements.
In the current year there is a total our own, independent assessment by looking, primarily, at the nature of pre-tax exceptional charge of 1,597million and a total 1,108million loss the items.
The detailed work we performed on the exceptional items relating to net re-measurements included within gross profit.
relating to the impairment charges is described above.
The exceptional items are expected to be non-recurring and are disclosed Regarding the gains associated with the disposals in North America separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence.
The current year we challenged management over the principles used to determine the charge is made up of a 1,938million impairment charge relating to disclosure as exceptional.
This included assessing the profit on disposal International gas and oil assets and power generation assets offset by calculations associated with Ontario home services 122million and a 341million gain on disposal of the Groups Texas gas-fired power the Groups Texas gas-fired power stations 219million.
We assessed stations and the Ontario home services business.
judgemental aspects of the calculations including those costs deemed The appropriate classification of exceptional items involves subjective as directly attributable to the sale and the allocation of goodwill to judgement by management including whether the item is truly exceptional disposal groups.
Our focus was on testing that the presentation and For certain re-measurements we audited the principles management use disclosure of these items is materially correct.
to determine whether a trade should be recognised as part of business Certain re-measurements relate to the fair valuing of forward energy performance or presented separately.
We evaluated whether the agreed trades as described above in our area of focus on the valuation of principles had been applied consistently by testing that a sample of the derivative transactions in commodity trading.
It is the Directors view trades have been presented correctly.
that movements in the fair value of optimisation trades do not reflect the Based on the work performed we did not identify any material issues with underlying performance of the business because they are economically the presentation of exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
related to parts of the business which are not fair valued, for example exploration and production assets or downstream demand.
As such these trades are only reflected in business performance when the underlying transaction or asset impacts profit or loss.
Speculative trading is entered into for the purpose of making profit.
Therefore all fair value movements associated with it are disclosed as part of underlying business performance.
Our focus was on ensuring the correct classification of optimisation and speculative trades.
Refer to pages 55 and 56 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and conclusions and notes 2 and 7 in the Financial Statements.
Onerous contracts The Group enters into a number of significant and complex contracts, We tested the identification and completeness of onerous contracts for example, forward gas purchase contracts and metering contracts.
through discussions with management, examination of Board minutes, Macroeconomic factors, such as commodity price, can have a significant obtaining and reviewing the new significant contracts during the year, impact on the profitability of these contracts, and therefore management and testing managements assumptions for a sample of contracts.
makes an assessment as to whether the impact of such factors has We tested the valuation of the onerous contract provisions by evaluating resulted in contracts becoming onerous.
whether appropriate judgements and assumptions had been applied There have been no new material onerous contracts identified during the in determining the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation and the year and managements existing assessment in relation to the Rijnmond estimate of the expected benefits to be received under the contract.
tolling contract, European gas transportation contracts, and Direct Based on our evaluation we did not identify any further onerous contracts Energy wind farm power purchase agreements remains unchanged.
that have not been provided for or any material issues with the valuation Our focus on onerous contracts was assessing whether all material of the existing provisions.
onerous contracts have been identified and that the valuation of any provision is materially correct.
Refer to pages 55 and 56 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and conclusions and notes 3 and 21 in the Financial Statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Downstream revenue recognition The accuracy of the recognition of energy services revenue within British In order to test the accuracy of the unread billed and unbilled revenue Gas, Direct Energy and Bord Gis Energy and its presentation in the we assessed the IT general controls, system application controls and income statement is dependent on complex estimation methodologies management controls in relation to the revenue and billing systems.
Our algorithms used to assess the amount of energy supplied to customers testing found that the IT general controls and system application controls between the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
were sufficient to enable materially accurate revenue estimations.
Unread gas and electricity comprises both billed and unbilled revenue.
Given the relatively short time period between the end of the financial The specific risk over unread revenue is the accuracy of the estimation.
year and the audit, the majority of unbilled revenue as at 31 December Where an unread estimate is billed this gives the customer opportunity remained unbilled and uncollected.
We therefore focused our substantive to challenge the amount which when applicable can lead to the correction testing on the manual processes over revenue recognition, challenging of estimates.
Where unread estimates are unbilled there are risks over the estimation methodologies and assessing the level of subsequent accuracy, recoverability and therefore recognition.
true-ups to actual bills raised.
We also reconciled the unbilled reports Furthermore, during the year migration issues arising from the to the general ledger at the year end.
Where manual adjustments were implementation of a new billing system in British Gas Business have made to the unbilled revenue we challenged the basis of the adjustments resulted in the need for management to perform additional levels of review made, the source of the data used and the consistency of the over unbilled judgements including the level of provisioning.
Refer to pages 55 and 56 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and In assessing the methodology used to derive the unbilled revenue at the conclusions and notes 3 and 4 in the Financial Statements.
balance sheet date, establishing the changes made to the methodology during the financial year, and testing the performance of historical billing and collections we did not identify any material issues with the recognition of unbilled revenue.
With regard to the implementation of the new billing system in British Gas Business we increased our scope of work in order to assess the impact of the migration of customers to the new system, specifically on unread and unbilled estimates.
This included testing the system exceptions, expanding the level of our detailed substantive testing on revenue billed and unbilled, and performing additional procedures on migrated customer balances in order to assess recoverability.
Based on our work we did not identify any material misstatements with downstream revenue recognition.
Pensions The group has a net pension asset of 62million, consisting of a We compared the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of 6,444million asset, offset by a 6,382million liability.
the pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
We have an internally developed range of acceptable discount rates for valuing The assumptions used in valuing the pension liability are both pension liabilities, which is based on our view of various economic judgemental and sensitive to change.
While our range is, itself, subjective, the discount rate adopted decrease in the discount rate has a 6% impact on the scheme liabilities.
by management fell above the higher end of the range by 0.05%.
We As a result there is a risk that a small change in the judgements used will discussed with the Directors the rationale for the discount rate used have a significant impact on the valuation of the pension liability.
As such and they explained that it was due to the addition of a subjective 0.15% our area of focus was on the assumptions used in calculating the liability.
perannum margin to the discount rate to allow for uncertainty over bond Refer to pages 55 and 56 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and yields.
While it is unusual to make such an adjustment, we agreed that conclusions and notes 3 and 22 in the Financial Statements.
the approach and explanation was not unreasonable.
Based on the work performed we did not identify any material issues over the assumptions used in valuing the pension liability.
Decommissioning provisions Every three years management performs a detailed assessment of the Our procedures on the decommissioning provision included assessing decommissioning provisions required in relation to their exploration and managements methodology compared to common industry practice and production assets.
evaluating managements processes and controls.
We also assessed the qualifications and experience of both managements internal and external As a result of the assessment in 2014 the level of provision has increased specialists including a critical examination of the scope of work performed to 3,102million 2013: 2,598million.
and managements basis of estimate document.
We challenged The decommissioning provision is judgemental and based on the management on the key assumptions used and verified these to current estimate of future costs of restoring sites to their original state.
This market information comprising recent quotes, industry studies and estimate requires specialist knowledge and therefore our focus was benchmark data.
This included discount rates and rig rates.
In addition on determining how management made their estimate and that the we performed detailed audit procedures on the decommissioning decommissioning provisions are materially accurate and complete.
estimate model and performed sensitivity analysis over the decommissioning liabilities.
Based on the work performed we did not identify any material issues over the methodology used to estimate the decommissioning provision and we were satisfied the provision is materially accurate and complete.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, How we tailored the audit scope both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along three business lines being International Upstream, International Downstream and Centrica Storage, each How we determined it 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
made up of different business units.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of these business lines and comprise the Groups Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we used operating businesses and centralised functions.
adjusted pre-tax profit to exclude Accordingly, based on size and risk characteristics we determined the effect of volatility on underlying the business units where we would perform an audit of their performance from disclosed complete financial information.
Where the work was performed by exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them as a basis for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a misstatements identified during our audit above 10million 2013: whole.
Across the Group, the Group team involvement comprised 10million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our site visits, conference calls, review of component auditor work view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
papers, attendance at component audit clearance meetings and Going concern other forms of communication as considered necessary.
Given the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors recent acquisition of Bord Gis Energy and the full year inclusion of Statement, set out on page 84 in relation to going concern.
We have results from Hess Energy Marketing, senior members of the Group nothing to report having performed our review.
audit team performed a number of site visits throughout the year to both the Republic of Ireland and North America.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements using the Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis audit work accounted for 93% of Group revenues and 82% of Group presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources profit before tax.
We also performed specific procedures on the to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, business units not included in the scope of the audit where they for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were contained material financial balances.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors Materiality use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of However, because not all future events or conditions can be materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 84, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 55 and 56, as required by We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 90 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Other required reporting What an audit of Financial Statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Consistency of other information disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable Companies Act 2006 opinion assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial assessment of: Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Adequacy of accounting records and information and and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently explanations received applied and adequately disclosed: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made in our opinion: by the Directors: and we have not received all the information and explanations we the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
require for our audit: or We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the received from branches not visited by us: or Financial Statements.
the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a accounting records and returns.
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and this responsibility.
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Corporate governance statement by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider corporate governance statement relating to the Companys the implications for our report.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor Responsibilities for the Financial Statements for and on behalf of  LLP and the audit Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibilities and those of the Directors London As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 84, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 19 February 2015 of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 91 S St trrat ateg egic ic R R ee ppor ort t G Go ov ver ern na an nce ce Fi Fin na anc nciia all S S tt at at ee m m ee nnt ts s S Sh ha ar re eho holld fide er r I In nf for orm mati ation on FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 Group Financial Statements 96 Notes to the Financial Statements General information 96 1 Summary of significant new accounting policies and reporting changes 97 2 Centrica specific accounting measures 98 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Group Income Statement including Dividends 102 4 Segmental analysis 108 5 Costs of operations 109 6 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 110 7 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 112 8 Net finance cost 112 9 Taxation 114 10 Earnings per ordinary share 115 11 Dividends Group Balance Sheet 116 12 Acquisitions and disposals 119 13 Property, plant and equipment 120 14 Interests in joint ventures and associates 121 15 Other intangible assets and goodwill 123 16 Deferred tax liabilities and assets 124 17 Trade and other receivables 125 18 Inventories 125 19 Derivative financial instruments 127 20 Trade and other payables 128 21 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 129 22 Post retirement benefits 133 23 Commitments and contingencies Capital structure and financing 136 24 Sources of finance 138 25 Share capital Post-balance sheet events 139 26 Events after the balance sheet date 140 Supplementary Information 140 S1 General information 140 S2 Summary of significant accounting policies 150 S3 Financial risk management 155 S4 Other equity 156 S5 Hedge accounting 157 S6 Fair value of financial instruments 160 S7 Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 161 S8 Related party transactions 161 S9 Auditors remuneration 162 S10 Principal undertakings 166 Company Balance Sheet 167 N otes to the Company Financial Statements 174 Gas and Liquids Reserves 175 Five Year Summary 176 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Statement
