Audit Committee Report continued Annual auditor assessment The Audit Committee has adopted a formal framework in its review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and audit quality which include the following areas: the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence and objectivity: the lead audit engagement partner and the audit team: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the plan: the quality of the formal audit report to shareholders: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in his handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the content of the external auditors comments on control improvement recommendations.
Regard is paid to the nature of, and remuneration received, for other services provided by Deloitte LLP to the Group and, inter alia, confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based on the work undertaken and are not success related.
The Committee considers that the relationship with the auditor is working well, and that they are effective in their role.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditor is re-appointed.
Non-audit work The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, including those that are pre-approved by the Audit Committee and those which require specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to fide minimis levels.
They may not provide a service which places them in a position where they may be required to audit their own work.
Specifically, they are precluded from providing services relating to bookkeeping, financial information system design and implementation, appraisal or evaluation services, actuarial services, any management functions, investment banking services, legal services unrelated to the audit or advocacy services.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2014, the auditors remuneration comprised 167,000 for audit work and 96,000 for other work, principally relating to tax work.
Audit rotation The auditor, Deloitte LLP, has been in tenure since 2000 and the current audit partner has been in place since the audit of the prior year financial statements.
The Committee is supportive of the new provision in the UK Code requiring FTSE 350 companies to put the provision of external audit services out to tender at least every ten years.
The Committee has reviewed the performance of the external auditor and is satisfied that currently Deloitte LLP provides an appropriate level of service delivered by a team with an in-depth understanding of our business and the broader real estate sector.
The Committees present intention therefore is that they will tender the external audit by 2017 when the audit partner next rotates.
There are no contractual obligations that act to restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
Risk management and internal control The Committee and the Board reviewed the internal control processes of the business and the Groups risk register during the year.
The risks and uncertainties facing the Group, and its internal control processes are considered in the Strategic Report on page 33.
Internal audit The Committee has considered the Boards view that, given the relatively straightforward nature of the Groups business and the control environment in place, no formal internal audit function is required.
The Committee concurs with managements view.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Mark Richardson Audit Committee Chairman 19 May 2014 78 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that the Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors' responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: 2. the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and 3. the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board James Gibson John Trotman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 19 May 2014 19 May 2014 79 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC Opinion on financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March Big Yellow Group PLC 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Strategic Report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our of material misstatement audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of investment properties and investment properties under We assessed the appropriateness of the valuers scope and assessed construction IPUC whether the third party valuers had sufficient expertise and resource.
Investment properties are held at 776.4m at 31 March 2014.
This is the We obtained the source information provided by management e. g. historical most quantitatively material balance in the financial statements.
These revenue on a store by store basis to the third party valuers and tested the investment properties are held at market value on the balance sheet.
We met with the third party valuers to discuss Market value is by its nature subjective with significant judgement the key judgements included within their valuations and analysed the key applied to the valuation.
judgements, namely cap rates, rental growth and stabilised occupancy on a property by property basis.
This analysis was undertaken at both a portfolio The key judgements about individual properties are cap rates, rental and individual store level.
growth and stabilised occupancy levels.
These judgements drive a cash flow model that is used as the basis of the valuation of each individual We also provided the valuations to our own internal real estate specialists property.
who performed an independent assessment of the assumptions that underpin the valuations based on their knowledge of the self-storage industry and wider real estate market.
VAT capital goods scheme CGS receivable We have involved VAT specialists in our audit team.
We have reviewed the VAT structure of the group including a sample of the underlying leases.
We agreed The Group has a VAT CGS receivable at 31 March 2014 of 9.0m reflecting that a sum of 0.8m was recovered during the year ended 31 March 2014 by the right to reclaim VAT from HMRC, which it incurred in acquiring or deduction against the Groups VAT return.
developing assets subsequently used for generating taxable supplies.
We have identified the following key considerations: We compared the discount rate applied by management against the Groups cost of debt given the capital expenditure was funded through bank financing.
the valuation of the asset is dependent on the VAT structure of the We tested the cost of debt through agreement to supporting documentation group, including the underlying leases: and e. g. loan agreements.
the discount rate used in determining the net present value of the asset is inherently judgemental.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the discount rate by calculating the impact on the value of the VAT CGS receivable of using the Group weighted average cost of capital WACC obtained from an independent source and the interest rate on 10 year UK gilts given the discount rate incorporates the risk of default by the counterparty, namely HMRC.
