Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Intu Properties plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Intu Properties plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Intu Properties plcs financial statements comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2014: the Group consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 96 million which represents 1% of total assets.
Audit scope The Group and Company financial statements are produced by the Groups central finance department using a single, consolidated general ledger, and the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
Areas of focus Valuation of Investment Properties Business combinations entered into during the year Application of new accounting standards The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
88 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Accounts Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of Investment Properties We read the valuation reports for all properties and attended meetings with each of the Valuers.
We confirmed that the Refer to page 65 Audit Committee report, page 103 valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS Accounting policies, page 101 Critical accounting estimates and suitable for use in determining the carrying value in the andassumptions and note 19 to the financial statements.
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity change, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also The Groups Investment Properties are all shopping centres and considered other engagements which might exist between comprise the majority of the assets in the Consolidated balance the Group and the Valuers.
We found no evidence to suggest sheet, their carrying value amounting to8.0bn.
that the objectivity of any Valuer in their performance of the valuations was compromised.
The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether of each property, its location and the expected future rental property specific current information supplied to the Valuers by revenues for that particular property.
management reflected the underlying property records held by the Group and which had been tested during our audit.
We found The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, CBRE, them to be consistent.
DTZ, Knight Frank, Jones Lang LaSalle and Cushman & Wakefield the Valuers.
The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, and Our work focused on the largest properties in the portfolio performed their work in accordance with the Royal Institution and those properties where the assumptions used and or of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional year on year capital value movement suggested a possible Standards.
The Valuers used by the Group are well-known outlier versus market data for the shopping centre sector.
firms, with considerable experience of the market in which the We compared the investment yields used by the Valuers to an Group operates.
estimated range of expected yields, determined via reference to published benchmarks.
We also considered the reasonableness In determining a propertys valuation the Valuers take into of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable to account property specific current information such as the published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value, void current tenancy agreements and rental income attached to rates and rent free periods.
Finally, we evaluated year on the asset.
They then apply assumptions as regards yield and year movements in capital value with reference to published current market rent, which are influenced by prevailing market benchmarks.
Where assumptions were outside the expected yields and comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final range or otherwise deemed unusual, and or valuations appeared valuation.
Due to the unique nature of each shopping centre, to experience unexpected movements, we undertook further the assumptions to be applied are determined having regard to investigations and, when necessary, held further discussions with the individual property characteristics at a granular, unit by unit the Valuers.
In this way professional scepticism was exercised in level, as well as considering the qualities of the shopping centre our evaluation of whether assumptions were appropriate in light as a whole.
of the evidence provided by significant transactions which had During 2014 significant transactions took place in the market taken place in the market during the year.
The prices paid indicated that the It was evident from our interaction with management and value of the shopping centres which make up the Groups the Valuers and our review of the valuation reports that portfolio had increased compared to the valuation reflected in close attention had been paid to each propertys individual the Groups 31 December 2013 balance sheet.
characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
The evaluation of what were the right assumptions to apply to any given property included determining the level of impact that recent significant market transactions should have on each individual propertys valuation, given its unique characteristics.
We saw evidence that alternative assumptions had been considered and evaluated by management and the Valuers, before determining the final valuation.
We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
89 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Intu Properties plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Business combinations entered into during the year We inspected the purchase agreements and assessed managements determination of the fair value of assets and Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report, page 105 liabilities acquired.
We focused on the fair value of the acquired Accounting policies, and note 40 to the financial statements.
properties, including the valuation methodology applied and the On 1 May 2014 the Group acquired 100% interests in shopping assumptions within the acquisition date valuation.
We considered centres at Derby and Sprucefield, and a 50% joint venture the reasons for the movements in the valuation between the interest in the Merry Hill shopping centre, from Westfield.
acquisition date and the 30 June 2014 valuation point, in order The consideration paid was 854.9m.
to assess whether there was information which came to light within the two month period which should have impacted on The acquisition has been accounted for as a single business the 1 May 2014 valuations.
We also reviewed the disclosures in combination, with a gain on acquisition of 1.6m, calculated by respect of the acquisitions from Westfield which were included reference to the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
in the 31 December 2014 financial statements.
Our assessment The consolidated financial statements include disclosures included consideration of whether the acquisition of the relating to the business combination, required by IFRS 3 50% share in Merry Hill formed part of the single business Business combinations.
We noted that the acquisitions were acquired from Following acquisition, the tenancy details and general ledger one vendor and announced as one transaction on the same balances for each of the entities acquired were migrated onto the day.
We concluded that the accounting and disclosures were in Groups systems.
Prior to migration, balances were mapped to accordance with applicable accounting standards.
the Groups own general ledger account lines, with adjustments The 31 December 2014 year end is the first for which we have made as required to ensure that the balances entering the been required to audit the Merry Hill joint venture, intu Derby system were in line with the Groups accounting policies.
and Sprucefield, both for the purposes of the Group audit, and Due to the volume of data being integrated onto the Groups for the purposes of the audits of the individual subsidiary entities systems, the adjustments required and the level of manual which were acquired.
We therefore performed first year audit processing, there exists a risk that the financial information in procedures which focused on: relation to entities acquired during the year may not have been Evaluation and testing of the controls over the transfer of migrated on to the Group accounting systems accurately and accounting records onto the Groups general ledger and lease completely, resulting in a risk of material misstatement.
As a data onto the Groups lease system: and result the migration of financial data relating to the entities acquired onto the Groups systems, as well as the accounting for Assessment of adjustments posted during the transfer the business combination, was an area of focus in our audit.
process in order to bring the numbers in line with the Groups accounting policies.
There were no concerns arising from our work over the migration of data onto the Groups systems.
90 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Accounts Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Application of new accounting standards We performed an assessment as to whether the requirements of IFRS 10, 11, 12 and the revised IAS 27, 28 had been appropriately Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report, page 101 Accounting reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
This included convention and basis of preparation, and notes 22 and 48 to the assessing whether balances related to joint ventures which have financial statements.
moved from proportional consolidation to the equity method of The consolidated financial statements for the year ended accounting, had been correctly re-presented in accordance with 31 December 2014 are the first to be prepared in accordance IFRS 12.
We also assessed whether the numbers which show how with the requirements of new standards on accounting for joint the 2014 Group financial statements would have been presented, ventures and joint operations IFRS 10, 11, 12 and the revised IAS prior to the re-presentation were in line with the requirements 27 and 28.
As a result, the Groups investments in joint ventures of the accounting standard.
Our procedures covered all joint are subject to equity accounting for the first time, as opposed to ventures as at 31 December 2014, including the intu Uxbridge, being proportionally accounted for in the income statement and Parque Principado, and intu Merry Hill joint ventures entered into balance sheet of the Group.
We concluded that the accounting treatment adopted and disclosures included in the financial statements are The adoption of the new standards involves the re-presentation in accordance with the new standards.
of prior period amounts for balances related to joint ventures.
Joint ventures entered into during the year ended 31 December For those joint ventures entered into during the year we assessed 2014 are also required to be equity accounted for.
The standard the classification as a joint venture, with a particular focus on intu requires disclosure of how the 2014 Group financial statements Uxbridge, where the Groups share is 20%.
We concluded that would have been presented, prior to the re-presentation as a result the classification in each case is supported by the Groups ability of IFRS 11. to exercise joint control.
The comparatives have been re-presented for the changes in classification and further details are provided in note 48.
An additional balance sheet showing the re-presented 1 January 2013 position has also been given.
Due to the judgement involved in determining the appropriate classification of an investments as a joint venture or joint operation and due to the size and number of balances being represented, the application of the new accounting standards was an area of focus in our audit.
How we tailored the audit scope In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Although the Group has some interests in shopping centre operations outside the UK, the Group is structured as a single reporting unit with a centralised accounting function, therefore the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced using numbers which are maintained on a single, consolidated trial balance, by the Groups finance department.
The majority of the underlying accounting records are maintained on the Groups single general ledger.
The intu Derby, intu Merry Hill and Sprucefield centres were in scope for the first time this year, having been purchased during 2014.
For Manchester Arndale, Cribbs Causeway, Centaurus Retail Park, Parque Principado and St Davids, Cardiff rental income and property expense numbers are submitted quarterly by external property managers to the Groups finance department, who then review and enter the numbers onto the Groups general ledger.
We performed auditing procedures over the numbers within those quarterly submissions, and on the process by which they are entered onto the Groups general ledger.
The quarterly submissions for Parque Principado were in scope for the first time this year.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
91 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Intu Properties plc continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 96 million 2013: 82 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to the carrying value of the Groups assets, acknowledging that the primary measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of investment property.
This represents a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality.
In addition, we set a specific materiality level of 8 million 2013: 7 million for rental income and expenses.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to underlying operating profit acknowledging that this is a secondary measurement attribute ofthe Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 8 million 2013: 8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 101, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other in formation Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 57, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to to report arising from be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess this responsibility.
the Groups and companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 63 to 67, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated to report arising from by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
92 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Accounts Directors remuneration What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give opinion reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the This includes an assessment of: Companies Act 2006. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Other Companies Act 2006 reporting and the companys circumstances and have been consistently Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you applied and adequately disclosed: if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made arising from this responsibility.
by the Directors: and Corporate governance statement the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys Directors judgements against available evidence, forming compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit We test and examine information, using sampling and other Our responsibilities and those of the directors auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Responsibilities set out on page 86, the Directors are responsible audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, for the preparation of the financial statements and for being substantive procedures or a combination of both.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs the audited financial statements and to identify any information UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the only for the companys members as a body in accordance with implications for our report.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Ranjan Sriskandan Senior Statutory Auditor responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to for and on behalf of  LLP whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
London 27 February 2015 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Intu Properties plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
93 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
