S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 Financial statements and other inFormation r eport oF the aUDitor independent auditoRs RepoRt to the membeRs of the our assessment of risks of material misstatement bRitish land Company plC the assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of opinion on financial statements of the british land Company plC resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: in our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the how the scope of our audit risk responded to the risk Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 march 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Valuation of investment We tested the key controls property implemented by management the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the valuation of the to review and challenge the work accordance with international Financial reporting standards iFrss Groups investment of the external valuers: Knight as adopted by the european Union: properties involves significant Frank and cbre.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared judgements made by We met with Knight Frank and cbre in accordance with United Kingdom Generally accepted accounting management using the to challenge the valuation process, practice: and advice of the external valuers, the performance of the portfolio particularly those around the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and the significant assumptions and current market conditions the requirements of the companies act 2006, as regards the Group critical judgement areas, including and development property financial statements, article 4 of the ias regulation.
future lease income and yields milestones.
the financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the valuation exercise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated We reviewed the yield assumptions also relies on the accuracy and company balance sheets, the consolidated statement of changes used by Knight Frank and cbre of the underlying lease in equity, the consolidated cash Flow statement and the related notes in performing their valuations and financial information 1 to 27 for the consolidated Financial statements and the related notes to assess their reasonableness provided to the valuers a to K for the parent company financial statements.
in comparison to relevant market by management.
evidence, benchmarking the yields the financial reporting framework that has been applied in the against specific property sales, preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and iFrss comparables and other external data.
as adopted by the european Union.
the financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial We assessed the competence, statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards independence and integrity of United Kingdom Generally accepted accounting practice.
We performed audit procedures Going concern to test the key controls in place as required by the listing rules we have reviewed the Directors and the integrity of the information statement contained on page 110 that the Group is a going concern.
provided to Knight Frank and cbre, We confirm that: including agreement on a sample we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis back to underlying leases.
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements please see note 11 of the Financial is appropriate: and statements.
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue accounting for complex We challenged managements as a going concern.
property transactions judgements by reviewing the sale the sale and purchase and purchase agreements and however, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, agreements for property other related documents and by this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue acquisitions and disposals assessing each transaction against as a going concern.
may have complexity such the recognition, measurement as deferred consideration and classification criteria per the arrangements, rental top-up Groups accounting policies and payments or joint venture the applicable iFrss.
contractual obligations, We tested the accuracy and which require judgement completeness of the disclosure from management to of the transactions in the financial consider the correct statements.
application of the relevant accounting standards.
the audit committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 77. our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 Financial statements and other inFormation r eport oF the aUDitor c ontinUeD our application of materiality matteRs on whiCh we aRe RequiRed to RepoRt by exCeption We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial adequacy of explanations received and accounting records statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of Under the companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
in our opinion: We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We determined materiality for the Group to be 55m, which is below 1% of shareholders equity.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received in addition to shareholders equity we recognise that underlying profit from branches not visited by us: or before tax is an important measure in the Groups income statement.
in order to suitably plan and evaluate our work for items affecting this the parent company financial statements are not in agreement measure we have applied a lower threshold which equates to 6.7% with the accounting records and returns.
of underlying profit before tax.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million, as well as directors remuneration differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting Under the companies act 2006 we are also required to report if in our on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited presentation of the financial statements.
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
an overview of the scope of our audit our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group Corporate Governance statement and its environment, including Group-wide control, and assessing the Under the listing rules we are also required to review the part of the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
audit work to respond corporate Governance statement relating to the companys compliance to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit with nine provisions of the UK corporate Governance code.
We have engagement team with the exception of three significant components, nothing to report arising from our review.
where full audit procedures were performed by other Deloitte UK offices.
Full audit procedures have been performed on components representing our duty to read other information in the annual Report 88% of the Group net assets.
Under international standards on auditing UK and ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual as Group auditors we also included the component audit partners and report is: teams in our team briefings, discussed their risk assessment, and also reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or at the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit our audit: or or audit of specified account balances.
opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies act 2006 in particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified in our opinion: any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report properly prepared in accordance with the companies act 2006: and is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or is consistent with the financial statements.
112 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 Financial statements and other inFormation Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor as explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and international standards on auditing UK and ireland.
those standards require us to comply with the auditing practices boards ethical standards for auditors.
We also comply with international standard on Quality control 1 UK and ireland.
our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the companies act 2006. our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
scope of the audit of the financial statements an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
in addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
if we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard muschamp senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of deloitte llp chartered accountants and statutory auditor london, United Kingdom 13 may 2014 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113
