HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 82 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hansteen Holdings PLC In our opinion: OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC t he financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: t he Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: t he parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and t he financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the strategic report that the Group is a going concern.
We con rm that: w e have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and w e have not identi ed any material uncertainties that may cast signi cant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 83 Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk INVESTMENT PROPERTY VALUATION We tested the integrity of the information provided See also note 17 to the financial statements, and the by management to the valuers by assessing Audit Committees Report on pages 97 to 100. supporting evidence, such as comparing rental At 31 December 2014, the Group held wholly-owned income to the tenancy schedules and evaluating investment and trading properties valued at 968.1 occupancy through physical inspection.
million, in addition to owning a share of three funds holding properties valued at 644.3 million.
We applied audit analytics to the tenancy and valuations data by analysing changes in the Investment properties are held at fair value on the property values compared to factors such as balance sheet, resulting in a net valuation gain of 62.9 market averages, occupancy rates and yields.
The fair values are calculated We met with managements third party valuers using information, such as lease agreements and of the German, UK and Netherlands property tenancy data, in addition to professional judgement concerning marketing conditions and factors impacting portfolios to con rm their independence, the scope of the work they were requested to perform individual properties.
by management, and the valuation process The valuation process is inherently judgemental, applied.
For each property we identi ed as having which is why we consider this to be a risk of material signi cant or unusual valuation movements in our misstatement.
In particular, changes in assumptions audit analytics, we challenged the valuers on the such as the time a property will remain vacant when a key assumptions applied and, where considered tenant leaves, the rent free period required to attract appropriate, obtained the detailed valuation a new tenant, and the level of expenditure required workings to check the validity of the assumptions to maintain the property can lead to signi cant applied and the accuracy of the calculation movements in the value of the property, as can changes performed.
We also assessed the valuations for a in the underlying market conditions.
Our work was led by senior members of the audit team, supported by internal property valuations specialists.
We visited a sample of properties during the year to assess the condition of the buildings and validate the occupancy data in the groups tenancy schedules.
We also considered the value realised on disposed properties compared to previous valuations, to determine the reliability of historical valuation outputs.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 84 Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk CALCULATION AND PRESENTATION OF THE LTIP We reviewed minutes of the meetings of the Board See also note 31 to the financial statements, the of Directors and the Remuneration Committee, in Audit Committees Report on pages 97 to 100, and the addition to evaluating the scheme agreements and Remuneration Committees Report on pages 102 to 114. other correspondence between the Group and the On 1 January 2013, Hansteen granted three-year Long LTIP members.
Term Incentive Plan LTIP options to the joint CEOs, as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 102 to We checked the mechanical accuracy of the calculation and challenged the key assumptions 114. applied by management.
As part of our work, we Payment under the scheme is made if the EPRA evaluated the accuracy of assumptions applied in Net Asset Value NAV per share of the Group at 31 previous periods for both the LTIP and other shareDecember 2015 exceeds 110.7 pence representing a settled award schemes, and we evaluated the compound annual growth of 10% over the three year sensitivity of the charge to changes in underlying period.
At 31 December 2014 the Groups EPRA NAV assumptions.
per share is 101.7 pence, as stated in Note 14.
Before We met with the Chairman of the Audit Committee the impact of the LTIP the EPRA NAV per share would be 105.4 pence, or 114.9 pence when dividends paid to discuss the key assumptions, the outcome of our audit work, and the level of disclosure in the are added back in line with the scheme rules.
equates equating to an average annual growth of 19.1% over the two year period.
We evaluated the level of disclosure in the annual report, in particular the presentation of the A charge of 13.6 million including national insurance charge within diluted metrics and non-statutory costs has been recorded in the year, which required signi cant judgement in considering the potential performance measures.
outcomes of the NAV growth based performance conditions over the remaining period of the current three-year scheme.
There is a further risk that insuf cient prominence and disclosure will result in the impact of the LTIP scheme not being clear to users of the financial statements.
In previous LTIP performance periods, the conditions of the scheme were not expected to be met and, as a result, no charge was accrued.
This is the first performance period of the LTIP scheme in which management expects options will vest.
Due to the level of management judgement and the size of the resulting charge, we have included the calculation and presentation of the LTIP as a risk.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 85 Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk SIGNIFICANT NON-RECURRING TRANSACTIONS We evaluated the presentation of signi cant See also notes 10, 19 and 28 to the financial non-recurring transactions in the annual report.
statements, and the Audit Committees Report on Throughout our audit work we were alert to pages 97 to 100. signi cant non-recurring transactions, in addition to The nature of the Groups operations give rise to noncompleting a review of legal correspondence and recurring transactions which can result in signi cant Board meeting minutes, to assess whether the list gains and losses.
of these transactions we considered was complete In the current year, the Group completed a number of For all signi cant non-recurring transactions, we signi cant non-recurring transactions including: assessed whether: the purchase of a loan receivable from ING, and o each transaction was accounted for in the subsequent acquisition of the HBI Netherlands compliance with IFRS: portfolio resulting in a total gain from these o each transaction was accurately recorded by transactions of 17.1 million: agreeing the value to underlying documentation: the placing of 44.8 million ordinary shares to raise o the underlying assumptions and judgements gross proceeds of 47.1 million using a cash box in the measurement of each transaction were structure: appropriate: and the acquisition of 26.0 million of units in the o each transaction was fairly presented and Ashtenne Industrial Fund AIF : disclosed in the financial statements.
the disposal of the majority of the portfolio held In respect of signi cant non-recurring transactions in HPUT, resulting in a net gain of 2.9 million that occurred during the year, our procedures also included within the share of results of associates: and included: o checking the valuation of the gain arising on the the disposal of 16 wholly-owned properties, resulting in a net gain on disposal of 3.6 million.
HBI transaction, and assessing the transparency of disclosure in the financial statements: These transactions are, by their nature, one-off and o agreeing the share placing to cash receipts and often complex.
There are management judgements inherent in their measurement, such as in calculating evaluating the impact of the cash-box structure placing on the Groups equity reserves: the value of the transaction or its resulting gain or loss, and their presentation in the financial statements has a o agreeing the AIF unit acquisition accounting to material impact on the results for the year.
purchase documentation: o considering the presentation of the gain on disposal of the HPUT portfolio and agreeing the disposal proceeds to sales agreements and bank receipts: and o checking the gains and losses recognised on a sample of property disposals to property valuation reports and sale and purchase agreements.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 86 Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk GOING CONCERN AND COVENANT COMPLIANCE We assessed the judgments and assumptions See also note 34 to the financial statements, and the applied by management in their going concern Audit Committees Report on pages 97 to 100. assessment and covenant compliance forecasts The Group has signi cant levels of external debt, including examining current and forecast business including bank borrowings of 433.8 million and and economic trends and signi cant developments convertible bonds with a fair value of 96.3 million as during and subsequent to the year ended 31 set out in Note 26.
Bank borrowings are subject to a number of Our challenge of managements assumptions financial covenants, including minimum loan to value included performing a sensitivity analysis ratios and interest cover.
Compliance with these to determine the extent of change in those banking covenants at the balance sheet date and assumptions that, either individually or collectively, forecast compliance for future periods are integral could give rise to a covenant breach and considered to managements assessment of going concern.
the likelihood of such a movement, or combination They also require consideration of the sensitivity of of movements, in those assumptions arising.
In covenant compliance to valuation movements, interest addition, we reviewed the historical forecasting rate increases, and changes in underlying trading accuracy to assess the reliability of the process.
"The groups assessment of going concern is a judgemental process which requires estimates of future cash ""ows based on managements view of future business prospects."
"The key judgements applied by management in developing the projected cash ""ows include occupancy rates, rental growth, capital expenditure on existing assets, planned acquisition or disposal activity, and working capital movements."
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 87 Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk TAXATION We challenged the assumptions and judgements in See also note 12 to the financial statements, and the managements assessment of current and forecast Audit Committees Report on pages 97 to 100.
Our challenge of managements The Group is a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT.
assumptions included performing a sensitivity There is a risk that signi cant tax charges may be analysis to determine the extent of change in those payable if the group does not comply with the REIT assumptions that, either individually or collectively, requirements.
could give rise to non-compliance with REIT The global tax landscape of the Group gives rise to conditions and considered the likelihood of such a complexities around transfer pricing and there is movement, or combination of movements, in those assumptions arising.
potential exposure to tax overseas jurisdictions.
There is judgement required in the application of tax legislation We evaluated the appropriateness of in overseas jurisdictions, which gives rise to a risk that managements assumptions and estimates in permanent establishments may be created resulting in relation to the likelihood of generating suitable tax liabilities for which provisions need to be recorded in future taxable pro ts to support the extent of the financial statements.
recognition of deferred tax assets by considering the performance of the companies for the year At 31 December 2014 the Group has unutilised tax losses of 75.2 million for which a deferred tax asset and performing sensitivity analysis on the business has been recognised in respect of 16.0 million of forecasts.
There is a level of judgement required in We considered compliance with overseas tax determining the extent to which such assets should regulations and assessed the judgements be recognised, where the losses are not ring-fenced made in assessing tax exposures by reviewing as a result of the Groups REIT status.
The judgements correspondence with tax authorities and performing include the application of local tax legislation, and the recalculations for entities with signi cant tax level of anticipated future pro ts to offset the unutilised balances or judgements, and on a sample of tax losses.
computations, using our overseas tax specialists.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 88 Financial Statements Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: accounting for derivative financial instruments the complex initial recognition and presentation of the convertible bond was completed in the year ended 31 December 2013 and the instrument is now held at the publicly traded value.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the signi cant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 97 to 100.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modi ed with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
"We fide ne materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the OUR APPLICATION financial statements that makes it probable that the economic OF MATERIALITY decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or in""uenced."
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 9.5 million 2013: 9.0 million, based on professional judgment, the requirements of auditing standards and the financial measures most relevant to users of the financial statements.
We have used 1.5% 2013: 2% of net assets as the benchmark for determining materiality.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA earnings per share to be a critical financial performance measure for the group on the basis that it is a key metric to analysts and investors.
EPRA earnings per share is based on the groups EPRA earnings of 36.3m, which is reconciled to IFRS pro t after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent in Note 14 of the financial statements.
We applied a lower threshold of 1.9 million 2013: 1.8 million for testing all balances impacting EPRA earnings, which represents 5% 2013: 6% of EPRA earnings.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 190,000 2013: 180,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identi ed when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 89 Financial Statements Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands, where full audits were carried out based on our assessment of the identi ed risks of material misstatement identi ed above.
The Group audit team performed the audits of the entities in the United Kingdom and Germany, and a component auditor performed the audits of the entities in the Netherlands based on instructions from the Group audit team.
In addition, the Group team also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to con rm our conclusion that there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of speci ed account balances.
The components subject to a full audit represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 97% 2013: 96% of the Groups revenue, 99% 2013: 97% of the Groups pro t before tax and 97% 2013: 97% of the Groups net assets.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component which were lower than group materiality, and ranged between 5.2 million and 7.1 million.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the Groups principal business units at least once every three years, including the overseas components audited directly by the Group audit team.
In the year ended 31 December 2014, we visited operations in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands.
In years when we do not visit a signi cant component that is audited by a component auditor, we will include the component audit partner in our team brie ng, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team participated in all of the close meetings of the Groups principal business units.
OPINION ON OTHER In our opinion: MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 90 Financial Statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception ADEQUACY OF Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING we have not received all the information and explanations we RECORDS require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in DIRECTORS REMUNERATION our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys STATEMENT compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual INFORMATION IN THE report is: ANNUAL REPORT materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We con rm that we have not identi ed any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 91 Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and SCOPE OF THE AUDIT disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Darren Longley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 6 March 2015 HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 92 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 93 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
