INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors report to the Our audit approach membersofDerwent London plc Materiality Report on the financial statements Overall Group materiality: 42.0m which represents 1% Our opinion oftotal assets.
In our opinion: Specific Group materiality: 2.9m which represents 5% ofprofit before tax excluding investment property valuation Derwent London plcs Group financial statements and movements and profit on disposal of investment properties.
Company financial statements the financial statements give The specific Group materiality has been applied to property a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the and other income, administrative expenses, provisions and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the working capital balances.
Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash Audit scope flows for the year then ended: This is our first audit of Derwent London plc the Group so the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the scope included gaining comfort over opening balances.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Group audit team carries out the statutory audits of all Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: components within the Group and the consolidation.
the Company financial statements have been properly Areas of focus prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Valuation of investment properties due to significance and European Union and as applied in accordance with the subjectivity.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Compliance with the REIT guidelines on which the Groups the financial statements have been prepared in accordance tax status is based due to the consequences of any breach.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Accounting for borrowings and the associated interest rate regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS swaps, including the conversion of the 2.75% convertible Regulation.
What we have audited The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Derwent London plcs financial statements comprise: We conducted our audit in accordance with International the balance sheets as at 31 December 2014: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Group income statement and Group statement We designed our audit by determining materiality and ofcomprehensive income for the year then ended: assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial the cash flow statements for the year then ended: statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors the statements of changes in equity for the year then made subjective judgements, for example in respect of ended:and significant accounting estimates that involved making the notes to the financial statements, which include a assumptions and considering future events that are inherently summary of significant accounting policies and other uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of explanatory information.
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial in the annual report rather than in the notes to the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial results of our procedures should be read in this context.
statements and are identified as audited.
Thisisnot a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
116 Governance Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment properties The external valuers used by the Group are CBRE Limited for Refer to pages 114 and 115 Report of the Audit Committee, the majority of the Groups portfolio.
Smiths Gore value a small pages 138 to 140 Notes to the financial statements note 16 amount of investment property portfolio in Scotland.
We and pages 165 to 168 Significant accounting policies.
assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the firms and verified their qualifications by discussing the scope The Groups investment properties were carried at 4,041.0m oftheir work and reviewing the terms of their engagements for as at 31 December 2014 and a revaluation gain of 667.1m unusual terms or fee arrangements.
Based on this work, we are was accounted for under revaluation surplus in the Group satisfied that the firms remain independent.
In excess of 98% of the value of the Groups investment property portfolio comprises offices and We agreed the property information in the valuation by tracing other commercial space within central London.
The remainder asample of inputs to the underlying property records held of the portfolio represents a retail park, cottages and strategic bythe Group which were also tested during the audit.
Wetested the data inputs underpinning the valuation for a sample of properties, including rental income, acquisitions Valuations are carried out by third party valuers in accordance andcapital expenditure, by agreeing them back to supporting with The RICS Valuation Professional Standards and IAS 40. documentation.
For the properties currently under development, There are significant judgements and estimates to be made in we traced the costs included within development appraisals relation to the valuation of the Groups investment properties.
In addition, we visited a number Where available, the valuations take into account evidence of ofthe key properties in central London that are under market transactions for properties and locations comparable development to confirm the status of developments and tothose of the Group.
aselection of assets within the Scottish portfolio.
The central London investment property includes: We met with the external valuers both with management and independently of management and obtained the valuation Standing investments: These are existing properties that are reports to discuss and challenge the methodology and currently let.
They are valued using the income capitalisation assumptions.
Weidentified the following assets for further method.
testing: ongoing and planned development projects: high value Development projects: These are properties currently under assets over 100m: acquisitions: and standing investments development or identified for future development.
They have where the valuation fell outsidethe expected range.
a different risk and investment profile to the standing In relation to these assets, we found that yield rates and ERVs investments.
These are valued using the residual appraisal were predominantly consistent with comparable information for method i. e. by estimating the fair value of the completed central London offices and assumptions appropriately reflected project using the income capitalisation method less comparable market information.
Where assumptions did not fall estimated costs to completion and a market based profit within our expected range, we assessed whether additional margin providing a return on development risk.
evidence presented in arriving at the final valuations was The most significant judgements and estimates affecting all appropriate, and, whether this was robustly challenged by the thevaluations include yields and estimated rental value ERV external independent valuers where appropriate.
Variances growth as described in note 16 of the financial statements.
were predominantly due to property specific factors such as For development projects, other assumptions including costs new lettings at higher rents or the fide-risking of development to completion and risk premium assumptions are also factored projects nearing completion.
We verified the movements to into the valuation.
supporting documentation including evidence of comparable market transactions where appropriate.
Yields and ERVs have moved favourably reflecting the buoyancy of the central London property market which has We challenged the Directors and Audit Committee on the driven a significant increase in valuation over the year.
The upward movements in the valuations and found that they were revaluation gain was also boosted by new lettings and able to provide explanations and refer to appropriate supporting significant progress on a number of development projects evidence.
where further costs have been incurred and the risk weighting applied to the valuation has decreased hence increasing the capitalised value.
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations when aggregated could result inmaterial misstatement, iswhy we have given specific audit focus and attention to this area.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Compliance with REIT guidelines We confirmed our understanding of managements approach to Refer to pages 114 and 115 Report of the Audit Committee ensuring compliance with the REIT regime rules.
and pages 165 to 168 Significant accounting policies.
We obtained managements calculations and supporting The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status documentation, checking their accuracy by verifying the inputs, provided they meet the rules within the regime.
The rules are calculation and application of the rules.
complex and the tax exempt status has a significant impact We found that the assessment prepared was free from material onthe financial statements.
The complexity of the rules creates error and consistent with the UK REIT guidelines.
a risk of inadvertently breaching and the Groups profit becoming subject to tax.
Accounting for borrowings and derivatives We obtained and reviewed every loan contract to understand Refer to pages 114 and 115 Report of the Audit Committee, the terms and conditions.
Where debt covenants were pages 145 to 152 Notes to the financial statements note 24 identified, we reperformed managements calculations to verify and pages 165 to 168 Significant accounting policies.
The carrying value of all debt was agreed to third party confirmations.
The Group has secured and unsecured debt totalling 1,019.8m 2013: 953.5m.
The debt includes unsecured As this was our first audit, we checked that the initial recognition convertible debt of 308.0m 2013: 302.7m with an option and subsequent measurement of debt was in accordance with for the Group to convert the debt when certain criteria have IAS 39 and we also evaluated the disclosures in the financial been met.
It is the bondholders decision when the option has statements to confirm that the presentation met the been exercised to either convert the bonds to shares or requirements of IAS 32. redeem for cash.
We obtained the convertible bond documentation to The Group uses interest rate swaps on a portion of its debt.
understand each of the clauses and the impact of the exercise The interest rate swaps were valued at 31 December 2014 by of the option to redeem.
We obtained managements proposed external valuers and the fair value was 25.2m 2013: 15.9m.
accounting treatment and were satisfied that it was consistent The valuation of the swaps is based on market movements with the convertible bond documentation and accounting which can fluctuate significantly in the year and could have standards.
We assessed and agreed the classification of the amaterial impact on the Group financial statements.
debt as current due to the conversion in January 2015.
Thevaluation also involves judgement and therefore is For all derivatives, we agreed the carrying value to valuations considered an area of audit focus.
obtained directly from the third party valuers, JC Rathbone On 17 December 2014, the Group exercised its option Associates.
We assessed the competence and capabilities toredeem its 175m 2.75% convertible bonds 2016 on ofthe external valuers by considering their qualifications and 30January 2015 at their principal amount together with any market experience.
We also performed independent valuations accrued interest.
As at 31 December 2014, no bondholder to recalculate the value using independent market data.
had indicated whether it would redeem its Bonds or elect to From our work on the terms of the debt arrangements in place exercise its alternative to convert to shares.
Subsequent to as at 31December 2014, we considered that the borrowings year end, all bondholders have elected to convert their debt and derivatives were accounted for line with the technical toshares.
requirements, valued correctly in the context of materiality, This was the Groups first debt conversion and accounting for anddisclosed appropriately.
convertible debt can be complex, including the need to identify potential embedded derivatives.
We therefore made this an area of audit focus.
How we tailored the audit scope The Groups properties are spread across 43 statutory entities This was our first year audit of the Group so we carried out with the Group financial statements being a consolidation of procedures to gain comfort over opening balances including these entities, the Company and the Groups joint venture.
areview of the predecessor auditors working papers.
TheGroup audit team performed all of this work by applying overall Group materiality and specific materiality, together with We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed additional procedures performed on the consolidation.
This enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for our opinion statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic onthe Group financial statements as a whole.
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
118 Governance Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 42.0m How we determined it 1% of total assets Specific materiality 2.9m How we determined it 5% of profit before tax excluding investment property valuation movements and profit on disposal of investment properties.
Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and determinant of the Group's value is direct property investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition, a number of key performance indicators of the Group are driven by income statement items and we therefore also applied a lower specific materiality totest property andother income, administrative expenses, provisions and working capital balances.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report tothem misstatements identified during our audit above 2.0m aswell as misstatements below that amount that, inour view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 89, in relation to going concern.
Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements usingthe going concern basis of accounting.
Thegoing concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, andthat the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
Aspart of our audit we have concluded that the Directors useof the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 119 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Other required reporting Adequacy of accounting records and information and Consistency of other information explanations received Companies Act 2006 opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report you if, in our opinion: andthe Directors report for the financial year for which we have not received all the information and explanations thefinancial statements are prepared is consistent with werequire for our audit: or thefinancial statements.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report toyou if, in our opinion: the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Information in the annual report is: We have no agreement with the accounting records and returns.
exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the arising fromthis information in the audited financial We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
statements: or Directors remuneration apparently materially incorrect Directors remuneration report Companies Act based on, or materially inconsistent 2006opinion with, our knowledge oftheGroup In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and Company acquired in the to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with course of performing our audit: or the Companies Act 2006. otherwise misleading.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the statement given by the Directors We have no Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you on page 87, in accordance with exceptions to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate arising fromthis specified by law are not made, and under the Listing Rules we Governance Code the Code, that responsibility.
are required to review certain elements of the report to they consider the annual report taken shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have as a whole to be fair, balanced and no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members Corporate governance statement to assess the Groups and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Companys performance, business Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys model and strategy ismaterially compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance inconsistent with our knowledge of Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the Group and Company acquired in the courseof performing our audit.
the section of the annual report on We have no pages 114 and 115, as required by exceptions to report provision C. 3.8 of the Code, arising fromthis describing the work of the Audit responsibility.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
120 Governance Responsibilities for the financial statements andthe audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements andfor being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have beenconsistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming ourown judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary toprovide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
Weobtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness ofcontrols, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing theaudit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
CRAIG HUGHES SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 FEBRUARY 2015 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 121 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 124 BALANCE SHEETS 125 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 127 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 128 Turnmill EC1
