FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Opinion on the financial statements of preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and Hammerson plc IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting In our opinion: framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Going concern accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Responsibilities Statement contained on page 102 that the Group the parent company financial statements have been properly is a going concern.
We confirm that: prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance is appropriate: and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income to continue as a going concern.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, However, because not all future events or conditions can be the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow ability to continue as a going concern.
Statement, the Analysis of Movement in Net Debt and the related notes 1 to 29 for the consolidated financial statements and the related notes A to L for the parent company financial statements.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement There has been no significant change in the Groups operations and our assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team, are the same risks as in the prior year: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of the property portfolio Hammerson plc Hammerson owns a portfolio of retail We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging property assets valued at 6,706.5 million at 31 December the work of the external valuer and development appraisals: 2014 of which 4,427.3 million are held by subsidiaries and We met with the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss and challenge 2,279.2 million by joint ventures Hammersons share excluding the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant VIA Outlets.
The valuation of the portfolio including a number assumptions and critical judgement areas, including future lease income of development properties is a significant judgement area and and yields.
We benchmarked these assumptions to relevant market is underpinned by a number of assumptions.
evidence including specific property sales and other external data: The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair For development properties we assessed future costs to complete value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The portfolio based on development appraisals.
We also tested controls around the excluding development properties is valued by the investment development cycle: method of valuation with development properties valued by We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external the same methodology with a deduction for all costs necessary valuer: and to complete the development together with an allowance for We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information remaining risk the residual method.
provided to the independent valuer including agreement on a sample Please see note 12 to the financial statements basis back to actual leases.
Investment property transactions Hammerson undertook acquisitions and disposals We challenged managements judgements by reviewing sale and during the year including acquiring a full controlling interest in purchase agreements and other related documents: Highcross, Leicester for 180 million, acquiring Saint Sbastien, We assessed each transaction against the recognition, measurement and Nancy for 109 million and disposing of its interests in classification criteria of the Groups accounting policies set out in note 1 Queensgate Shopping Centre, Peterborough for 99 million.
and applicable IFRSs: and There is a risk that transactions may have complexity which We tested the accuracy and completeness of the disclosures in the includes deferred consideration arrangements, rental top-up financial statements.
payments or other contractual obligations which are not appropriately recorded within the financial statements.
com 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for the investment in Value Retail We planned the scope of the audit and instructed the auditor of Value Hammersons interest in Value Retail carrying value Retail accordingly: of 629 million is equity accounted as an associate.
The valuation of the Groups investment in Value Retail We met with the auditor, Value Retail management and the external is primarily driven by the valuation of the Value Retail property valuer of the Value Retail property portfolio to discuss and challenge the portfolio of 2,703 million of which Hammersons share is valuation assumptions including future rental income and yields: and 885 million.
This is subject to similar judgements to those of We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the the Groups own property portfolio above, including future external valuer.
Please see note 14 of the financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 72 and the significant accounting policies disclosed in note 1.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit, Our application of materiality whilst Value Retail accounted for as an associate and VIA accounted We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the for as a joint venture were subject to an audit of specified financial statements that makes it probable that the economic account balances, where the extent of our testing was based on decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Our audit work at the four locations was executed at levels of We determined materiality for the Group to be 30 million materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower 2013: 30 million, which is below 1% 2013: 1% of shareholders than group materiality and ranged from 12.6 million to 16.5 million equity.
We determined materiality based on shareholders equity 2013: 12.6 million to 16.5 million.
For those balances impacting as net asset value is a key performance indicator as it takes into EPRA Adjusted Profit Before Tax the materiality range was 3.2 million consideration the valuation of Hammersons property portfolio to 4.35 million 2013: 3.2 million to 4.35 million.
and the investment in Value Retail.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit Before visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or Tax as a critical performance measure for the Group and a measure a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations used within the Real Estate industry.
We applied a lower threshold of where the group audit scope was focused at least once every two 7.8 million 2013: 6.5 million which equates to 4.5% 2013: 4% of years.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will that measure for testing all balances impacting that measure.
include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.6 million their work.
2013: 0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
aggregated financial information of the remaining components An overview of the scope of our audit not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the have obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four significant components being the UK, France, Value Retail and VIA Outlets VIA.
VIA was included within scope for the first time in 2014 following the investment made in the year.
These four 2013: three components together comprise 99% 2013: 99% of the Groups net assets and 100% 2013: 100% of profit before tax.
104 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 104 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Companies Act 2006 the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial In our opinion: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statements in accordance with applicable law and International 2006: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Report for the financial year for which the financial statements for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood Matters on which we are required to report and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated by exception professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. in our opinion: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them we have not received all the information and explanations we in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent require for our audit: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements the parent company financial statements are not in agreement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and with the accounting records and returns.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Directors remuneration assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read nothing to report arising from these matters.
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to Corporate Governance Statement identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor Annual Report is: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements: or London, United Kingdom apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 13 February 2015 performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
