Strategic report Governance Financial statements Auditors report Opinion on financial statements of LondonMetric Property Plc In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 21 for the Group financial statements and the related notes i to vii for the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained on page 85 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: We have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate We have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material mis-statement The assessed risks of material mis-statement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Property valuation see note 10 We assessed managements process for reviewing and assessing the The Group owns a portfolio of retail and distribution property assets.
work of the external valuer and development appraisals The valuation of the portfolio is a significant judgement area and is We met with the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss the results underpinned by a number of assumptions including i capitalisation yields: of their work.
We discussed and challenged the valuation process, ii future lease income: and iii with reference to development properties, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical costs to complete.
judgement areas, including lease incentives, break clauses, future lease income and yields The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair value We assessed the competence, objectivity and integrity of the the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The portfolio excluding external valuer development properties is valued by the investment method of valuation We tested a sample of properties through benchmarking, understanding with development properties valued by the same methodology with a the valuation methodology and wider market analysis together with deduction for all costs necessary to complete the development together testing the integrity of a sample of the information provided to the with an allowance for remaining risk.
independent valuer by agreeing that information to underlying The valuation exercise also relies on the accuracy of the underlying lease lease agreements and financial information provided to the valuers by management.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 89 Auditors report continued Property transaction accounting see note 10 We assessed the fair value of consideration and confirmed key The Group has undertaken a large number of property acquisitions and transaction terms by reference to acquisition or disposal agreements disposals including the acquisition of the DFS portfolio, the Odeon cinema and other external evidence for all significant acquisitions and disposals portfolio and a number of distribution warehouses.
The disposal of offices at in the year Fleet Place, London and Leatherhead as well as a significant proportion of We considered the date at which the transactions completed based the residential portfolio were also undertaken during the course of the year.
on the timing of the transfer of risks and rewards of ownership per the acquisition or disposal agreements, and considered the impact of these These transactions can include complexities such as rental top-up transactions on revenue recognition payments, conditionality and deferred completion mechanics or joint We considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the transactions in the venture contractual obligations, requiring judgement as to the appropriate financial statements accounting to be applied.
We recalculated the profit or loss on disposals based on the terms of the transaction Revenue recognition see note 3 As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on any unusual and complex Accounting for unusual or more complex items including rent-free periods adjustments to revenue, agreeing the lease incentives for a sample of items and capital incentives is complex, requiring an understanding of specific to the underlying leases.
We recalculated the required adjustment to the terms and conditions which vary between contracts.
annual rent in relation to these items to determine whether the correct amount of revenue had been recognised in the year.
Impairment of intangible assets see note 12 We considered the performance of the underlying asset management The intangible assets held on the balance sheet reflect the value attributed agreements together with income projections, having regard to the to asset management agreements on internalisation of London & Stamford existing assets subject to management and future transactions and the acquisition of Metric.
The audit risk relates to the potential We considered any indicators of impairment and managements impairment of the balance where there have been indicators of impairment analysis impairment during the year.
We assessed the impairment booked during the year to fully impair the Green Park intangible, in light of the impairment analysis prepared by management The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on An overview of the scope of our audit pages 69 and 70.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a controls, and assessing the risks of material mis-statement at whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not by the Senior Statutory Auditor, responsible for the audit of the modified with respect to any of the risks described above, Company and each of its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Our and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
audit work on subsidiaries and joint ventures is carried out to a materiality which is lower than, and in most cases substantially Our application of materiality lower than, Group materiality as set out above.
Our audit also included testing of the consolidation process and We define materiality as the magnitude of mis-statement in Group-wide controls.
the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person Opinion on other matters prescribed by the would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in Companies Act 2006 planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
In our opinion: We determined materiality for the Group to be 15.2 million The part of the Directors remuneration report to be which is 2% of shareholders equity.
In addition to net assets, audited has been properly prepared in accordance with we consider EPRA Earnings as a critical performance measure the Companies Act 2006 for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 1.3 million The information given in the Strategic report and the based on 5% of that measure for testing of all balances and Directors report for the financial year for which the classes of transactions which impact that measure, primarily financial statements are prepared is consistent with the transactions recorded in the income statement other than financial statements fair value movements on investment property, development property and derivatives.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
LondonMetric Property Plc 90 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Auditors report Auditors report continued continued Matters on which we are required to report Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Property transaction accounting see note 10 We assessed the fair value of consideration and confirmed key The Group has undertaken a large number of property acquisitions and transaction terms by reference to acquisition or disposal agreements by exception As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities disposals including the acquisition of the DFS portfolio, the Odeon cinema and other external evidence for all significant acquisitions and disposals Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of portfolio and a number of distribution warehouses.
The disposal of offices at in the year Fleet Place, London and Leatherhead as well as a significant proportion of We considered the date at which the transactions completed based the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to the residential portfolio were also undertaken during the course of the year.
on the timing of the transfer of risks and rewards of ownership per the a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express acquisition or disposal agreements, and considered the impact of these you if, in our opinion: These transactions can include complexities such as rental top-up an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with transactions on revenue recognition payments, conditionality and deferred completion mechanics or joint We have not received all the information and explanations applicable law and International Standards on Auditing We considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the transactions in the venture contractual obligations, requiring judgement as to the appropriate financial statements we require for our audit UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with accounting to be applied.
We recalculated the profit or loss on disposals based on the terms of the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the transaction Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have We also comply with International Standard on Quality Revenue recognition see note 3 As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on any unusual and complex not been received from branches not visited by us Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools Accounting for unusual or more complex items including rent-free periods adjustments to revenue, agreeing the lease incentives for a sample of items and capital incentives is complex, requiring an understanding of specific to the underlying leases.
We recalculated the required adjustment to the aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are The Parent Company financial statements are not in terms and conditions which vary between contracts.
annual rent in relation to these items to determine whether the correct effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and agreement with the accounting records and returns amount of revenue had been recognised in the year.
systems include our dedicated professional standards review We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
team, strategically focused second partner reviews and Impairment of intangible assets see note 12 We considered the performance of the underlying asset management independent partner reviews.
The intangible assets held on the balance sheet reflect the value attributed agreements together with income projections, having regard to the Directors remuneration to asset management agreements on internalisation of London & Stamford existing assets subject to management and future transactions This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a and the acquisition of Metric.
The audit risk relates to the potential We considered any indicators of impairment and managements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the impairment of the balance where there have been indicators of impairment analysis if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration impairment during the year.
We assessed the impairment booked during the year to fully impair the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken have not been made or the part of the Directors Green Park intangible, in light of the impairment analysis prepared by so that we might state to the Companys members those management remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by report arising from these matters.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on An overview of the scope of our audit law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone pages 69 and 70.
Corporate governance statement other than the Company and the Companys members as a Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part have formed.
in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a controls, and assessing the risks of material mis-statement at of the Corporate governance statement relating to the whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led Companys compliance with nine provisions of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not by the Senior Statutory Auditor, responsible for the audit of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and modified with respect to any of the risks described above, Company and each of its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Our arising from our review.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
audit work on subsidiaries and joint ventures is carried out to a Our duty to read other information in the annual report reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free materiality which is lower than, and in most cases substantially Our application of materiality from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or lower than, Group materiality as set out above.
Our audit Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting also included testing of the consolidation process and We define materiality as the magnitude of mis-statement in we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Group-wide controls.
the financial statements that makes it probable that the in the annual report is: Companys circumstances and have been consistently economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in Companies Act 2006 financial statements significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In our opinion: Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in We determined materiality for the Group to be 15.2 million The part of the Directors remuneration report to be information in the annual report to identify material the course of performing our audit which is 2% of shareholders equity.
In addition to net assets, audited has been properly prepared in accordance with inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to we consider EPRA Earnings as a critical performance measure the Companies Act 2006 Otherwise misleading identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 1.3 million based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge The information given in the Strategic report and the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have based on 5% of that measure for testing of all balances and acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Directors report for the financial year for which the identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge classes of transactions which impact that measure, primarily become aware of any apparent material mis-statements or financial statements are prepared is consistent with the acquired during the audit and the Directors' statement that transactions recorded in the income statement other than inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
financial statements they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and fair value movements on investment property, development understandable and whether the annual report appropriately property and derivatives.
Claire Faulkner discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Senior Statutory Auditor We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP, statutory auditor to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million, London We confirm that we have not identified any such United Kingdom as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, inconsistencies or misleading statements.
3 June 2014 warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 91
