Governance Global tonnes of CO e greenhouse gas emissions 2 Operational 2014 Scopes for 2014 totals scope 1 2,021 Gas 2,021 scope 2 7,919 Consumed electricity 7,684 consumed heat steam 235 scope 3 Not measured total 9,940 9,940 Intensity ratio measurement: In order to provide a ratio in relation to a quantifiable factor associated with Redefine Internationals activities, the Company has chosen to report on an intensity ratio of kgCO e m of controlled property space: 2 the current estimated area owned by Redefine International is 5,487,506m: the estimated area controlled or partially controlled by Redefine International is 462,349m: and the current Scope 1 2 CO e produced through facilities under the control of Redefine International is 9,940CO t. 2 2 Intensity ratio CO e 2 Controlled space m 462,349 COt from controlled space 9,940 2 Intensity ratio kg CO m 21.2 2 Changes in emissions As stated, this is the first year that the Company has reported on GHG emissions.
For future years, a rolling base year approach will be used, whereby the Base Year will be recalculated to represent any significant Company structural or portfolio changes from the previous year to ensure CO e output is comparable year on year.
2 Target Climate change as a result of manmade GHG emissions represents one of the greatest threats to our environment, society and economy.
In the past, the Company has set objectives to reduce energy consumption across its properties, by such methods as including renewable energy generation to reduce reliance on CO intense grid supplies, without setting anytargets.
2 By conducting a corporate GHG inventory Redefine International will now be able to monitor the GHG emissions from the properties it controls, as well as the assets it has less influence over in our portfolio Scope 3 emissions and the upstream and down stream supply chain.
Redefine International will also endeavour to reduce its environmental impact on the local and wider community.
Targets for CO e reduction will be set at site level to maximise potential energy savings with 2 maximum CO reductions and Low Zero Carbon LZC projects will be considered to reduce the CO output and financial 2 2 burden on Redefine International in relation to government environmental taxes and environmental energy reduction schemes.
Climate Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC EES Redefine International is a participant of Phase 2 of the CRC EES.
Based on the CO t emissions from eligible UK supplies, 2 the current liability for purchase of CO allowances is estimated at over 138,000 this figure includes the Hotel Portfolio 2 which currently reports through IHG.
Redefine International will be directly liable for c. 78,000 for the 20142015 CRC EES reporting period based on current portfolio assets assessed.
Redefine International must drive down emissions throughout Phase 2 of the CRC EES to lower allowance liability.
Top energy consumers Property Gas kWh Electricity kWh CO t produced 2 Crown Plaza Reading Hotel 2,477,467 1,616,014 1,329 West Orchard Shopping Centre 487,458 1,452,312 875 The Crescent Centre Bristol 1,243,694 1,121,090 834 St Georges Shopping Centre 42,300 1,483,264 810 Altona Shopping Centre Hamburg 367,333 1,163,389 696 Weston Favell Shopping Centre 69,211 1,079,107 596 total 4,687,463 7,915,176 5,142 The top six energy consumers account for almost 52% of the total emissions from the 32 sites that were included in thisreport.
Redefine International P. L. C. 65 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibility The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the IASB and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by IFRS, as issued by the IASB and UK GAAP, to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group and Company respectively.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements comply in the case of the Group with IFRS as issued by the IASB and in the case of the parent company with UK GAAP as applied in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 19312004 asamended : and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time its financial position.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent anddetect fraud and other irregularities.
Responsibility statement Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group at 31 August 2014 and its profits for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the parent company at 31 August 2014: the adoption of a going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continues to be appropriate based on the year end position and having reviewed the forecast financial position of the Group: the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The financial statements are published on the Groups website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
The Board of Directors 28 October 2014 Redefine International P. L. C. 66 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Redefine International P. L. C. Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Redefine International P. L. C. for the year ended 31 August 2014 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the parent company balance sheet gives a true and fair view in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of the state of the parent companys affairs asat31August2014.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional judgement, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We assessed managements process for reviewing and assessing Valuation of investment property the work of the external valuers.
The valuation of the Groups investment properties involves significant judgements We assessed the competence, objectivity and integrity of the made by management using the advice external valuers.
This assessment included but was not limited of the external valuers, particularly those to, assessing their professional qualifications, experience and around current market conditions and independence from the Group.
We held discussions with the external valuers to gain an understanding of: The valuation exercise also relies on the accuracy of the underlying lease and the valuation process adopted: financial information provided to the valuers the significant assumptions used and critical judgement areas by management.
in the valuation process including break clauses, future lease income and yields: and the performance of the relevant portfolio.
We used our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing the valuation methodology applied, and whether it is in line with accounting requirements and also to challenge key inputs in light of market indicators.
We tested on a sample basis the integrity of the information provided to the independent valuers and used in valuing the properties by agreeing that information to underlying agreements.
We considered the adequacy and completeness of the disclosures associated with investment property.
Redefine International P. L. C. 67 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Redefine International P. L. C. Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We agreed the transaction details to the underlying legal Transaction risk and accounting for agreements.
complex transactions The Group has undertaken a large number We challenged managements judgements by reviewing the sale of transactions during the year including and purchase agreements and other related documents and by the business combination with RIMH, assessing each transaction against the recognition, measurement the acquisition of a number of property and classification criteria according to the Groups accounting subsidiaries Grand Arcade Wigan Limited policies and the applicable IFRS.
and West Orchards Coventry Limited as We assessed the fair value of the consideration given as well as well as certain other property acquisitions the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in and disposals.
light of available market information.
Given the high level of activity and complex We considered the accounting for goodwill and intangible assets nature of certain of these transactions a acquired as part of the RIFM acquisition by reviewing the terms risk exists that they are not appropriately of the contracts acquired and critically assessing the impairment accounted for or disclosed in the financial recorded in light of guidance in the relevant accounting standards.
We considered the adequacy of the disclosures associated with the transactions in the financial statements.
We assessed the accounting treatment adopted for new loans Funding Debt refinancings by inspecting the relevant loan agreements and considering the restructures revised terms and related cashflows.
The Group has refinanced or restructured a number of its debt We assessed the accounting with regard to the requirements in facilities during the year including the IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement restructuring of the Aviva debt and the relating to loan modifications.
refinancing of certain other debt facilities For loans which were fundamentally restructured we challenged associated with its hotel and retail the fair value at which they were recorded by obtaining an portfolio.
The Group has also received understanding of the terms of the revised debt and benchmarking debt forgiveness on certain residual debt against the cost of similar funding available in the market.
associated with the Gamma portfolio.
We tested the 6.2 million gain recorded on the Aviva debt We focused on this area because of restructuring by comparing the carrying value of the original loans the extent of refinancing activity which and the associated cross collateralisation provision with the fair occurred over the period which gave value of the new loans.
rise to increased complexity in the We obtained external confirmations on a sample basis of funding accounting for debt arrangements.
We considered the accounting for the debt release obtained in respect of the Gamma facility by reviewing the correspondence with the lender and assessing the accounting treatment adopted and related write off recorded in light of the derecognition of financial liability criteria set out in IAS 39.
We considered the adequacy of the disclosures associated with the Groups debt facilities and refinancing restructuring activity which occurred during the year.
Redefine International P. L. C. 68 Annual Report 2014
