StRAtEGiC REPORt GOVERNANCE financial statements AdditiONAl iNfORmAtiON Financial statements continued Land Securities Annual Report 2014 81 inDepenDent auDitors report to the members of Land Securities Group PLC We have audited the financial statements of land Opinion on financial statements assessment of the Groups overall control Securities Group PlC for the year ended 31 march In our opinion: environment, our judgement is that overall 2014 which comprise the Group Income Statement, performance materiality for the Group should the financial statements give a true and fair view the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, be 50% of materiality.
of the state of the Groups and of the Parent the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group We have determined that for other account Companys affairs as at 31 march 2014 and of the and Company Statement of Cash Flows, the Group balances not related to investment properties a Groups profit for the year then ended: and Company Statement of Changes in Equity and misstatement of less than materiality for the the Group financial statements have been properly the related notes 1 to 41. the financial reporting financial statements as a whole could influence the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by framework that has been applied in their preparation economic decisions of users.
We have determined the European Union: is applicable law and International Financial that materiality for these areas should be based the Parent Company financial statements have Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the upon profit before tax, excluding the impact of the been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as European Union and, as regards the Parent Company net surplus on revaluation of investment properties adopted by the European Union and as applied in financial statements, as applied in accordance Adjusted PBt.
this lower level of materiality is accordance with the provisions of the Companies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
18m, which is approximately 5% of Adjusted PBt.
Act 2006: and this report is made solely to the Companys We set performance materiality for these balances members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of the financial statements have been prepared in at 50% of this lower level of materiality.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work accordance with the requirements of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group would report to the Committee all audit differences Companys members those matters we are required financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS in excess of 2.5m, as well as audit differences in to state to them in an auditors report and for no Regulation.
excess of 0.9m that relate to our specific testing of other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, the other account balances not related to investment Our assessment of risks of material we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone properties.
We also agreed to report differences misstatement other than the Company and the Companys below those thresholds that, in our view, warranted We identified the following risks that have had the members as a body, for our audit work, for this reporting on qualitative grounds.
greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
allocation of resources in the audit, and directing An overview of the scope of our audit Respective responsibilities of Directors and the efforts of the engagement team: the Group solely operates in the United Kingdom auditor and operates through two segments, london and the valuation of the investment property portfolio: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Retail, both of which were subject to the same audit revenue recognition: and Responsibilities set out on page 80, the Directors are scope.
the Group audit team performed all of the the risk of management override of internal responsible for the preparation of the financial work necessary to issue the Group and Parent controls.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a Company audit opinion.
Our responsibility is to audit and the way in which we scoped our response to the Our application of materiality express an opinion on the financial statements risks identified above was as follows: We apply the concept of materiality both in in accordance with applicable law and International planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating The valuation of the investment property Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
those the effect of misstatements on our audit and on portfolio standards require us to comply with the Auditing the financial statements.
For the purposes of We evaluated and tested the Groups controls Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
determining whether the financial statements are over data used in the valuation of the investment free from material misstatement we define Scope of the audit of the financial statements property portfolio.
materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that An audit involves obtaining evidence about the We performed testing over data provided by the makes it probable that the economic decisions amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Group to the external valuers, including lease data.
of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the on the financial statements, would be changed We include Chartered Surveyors on our team who financial statements are free from material or influenced.
We also determine a level of consider the external valuers qualifications and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
performance materiality which we use to determine meet with the external valuers to assess and this includes an assessment of: whether the the extent of testing needed to reduce to an challenge the valuation approach and assumptions.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups appropriately low level the probability that the and Parent Companys circumstances and have been We met with project managers and performed site aggregate of uncorrected and undetected consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the visits on major properties under development and misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial reasonableness of significant accounting estimates assessed project costs and challenged the forecast statements as a whole.
made by the Directors: and the overall presentation costs to complete included in the valuations.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, of the financial statements.
In addition, we read We conducted analytical procedures by reference we determined a magnitude of uncorrected all the financial and non-financial information to external market data to evaluate the misstatements that we judged would be material for in the Annual Report 2014 to identify material appropriateness of the valuations adopted by the financial statements as a whole.
We determined inconsistencies with the audited financial statements the Group and investigated further the valuations materiality for the Group to be 50m, which is and to identify any information that is apparently of those properties which were not in line with approximately 0.5% of investment properties, and materially incorrect based on, or materially our expectations.
We determined that investment inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in property would be the most appropriate basis for the course of performing the audit.
If we become determining overall materiality given that the aware of any apparent material misstatements or Groups investment property balance accounts for inconsistencies we consider the implications for around 81% of the Groups total assets.
of our risk assessments, together with our 82 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 inDepenDent auDitors report to the members of Land Securities Group PLC continued Revenue recognition In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between We carried out testing relating to controls over our knowledge acquired during the audit and the revenue recognition, the treatment of rents, Directors statement that they consider the Annual incentives and other property related income.
Report is fair, balanced and understandable and We performed substantive testing and analytical whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses procedures in connection to revenue balances those matters that we communicated to the to assess whether revenue had been recognised Audit Committee which we consider should have in the appropriate accounting period.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required policies adopted complied with IFRSs as adopted to report to you if, by the European Union.
in our opinion: The risk of management override of internal adequate accounting records have not been kept controls by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches the procedures described above addressed the not visited by us, or risk of management override in respect of the valuation of the investment property portfolio the Parent Company financial statements and the and revenue recognition.
part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting We performed analytical procedures and journal records and return, or entry testing in order to identify and test the risk certain disclosures of Directors remuneration of fraud arising from management override of specified by law are not made: or internal controls.
we have not received all the information and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the explanations we require for our audit.
Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Under the listing Rules we are required to review: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Directors statement, set out on page 80, to be audited has been properly prepared in in relation to going concern: and accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement the information given in the Strategic Report and relating to the Companys compliance with the the Directors Report for the financial year for nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance which the financial statements are prepared is Code specified for our review.
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Eamonn McGrath Senior statutory auditor Under the International Standards on Auditing for and on behalf of Ernst & Young llP, UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, Statutory Auditor in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: london materially inconsistent with the information in the 14 may 2014 audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
