104 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 Opinion on financial statements of SEGRO plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained on page 101 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK SEGRO plc owns and manages a portfolio of modern We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the warehousing, light industrial and data centre properties.
The external valuers as well as assessed the competence, independence and integrity portfolio is valued at 4,798.7 million, including share of joint of the external valuers.
venture properties, as at 31 December 2014.
We obtain the external valuation reports and met with the external valuers of the The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to portfolio to discuss the results of their work on a sample of properties.
fair value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The With the assistance of a member of the audit team, who is a chartered surveyor, we portfolio excluding development properties is valued by the discuss and challenge the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and investment method of valuation with development properties significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including occupancy rates, valued by the same methodology with a deduction for all yields and development milestones.
costs necessary to complete the development together with a We benchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to external industry data remaining allowance for risk.
and comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
See accounting policy on page 113 and Note 15 to the We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information provided to financial statements.
the independent valuers relating to rental income, purchasers costs and occupancy.
We assessed the Groups development appraisal process by assessing the forecast cost to complete and commitments of key developments.
Revenue recognition, focusing on the accounting treatment As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on any unusual and complex for unusual or more complex items including lease incentives.
adjustments to revenue, agreeing all items to the underlying leases and See accounting policy on page 113 and Note 4 to the recalculating the revenue recognised in relation to lease incentives.
Accounting for significant financing transactions and complex We audited each significant financing transaction, agreeing the terms of the financial instruments, in particular the valuation of complex repayments and drawdowns to loan agreements.
We used our financial financial instruments.
instrument specialists to recalculate the valuation of complex financial instruments See accounting policy on page 114 and Note 20 to the using market interest rates.
SEGRO plc has undertaken a number of material acquisitions We confirmed key transaction terms to sale and purchase agreements for all and disposals in the year, in particular the disposal of Pegasus significant acquisitions and disposals to verify that key terms and pricing were Park, for 83.4 million and a portfolio of UK logistics assets appropriately reflected in any calculation of profit or loss on disposal.
Key acquisitions have been 472.0 million We considered the date at which the transaction completed based on the within the SEGRO European Logistics Partnership SELP and acquisition or disposal agreements.
95.6 million acquisition of the remaining interest in the We checked that the transactions are properly reflected and disclosed in the Logistics Property Partnership LPP joint venture.
See accounting policy on page 113 and Notes 8 and 15 to the financial statements.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105 Last year our report included one risk that is not included in our report this year: Accounting for the creation of the SEGRO European Logistics Partnership SELP joint venture, including the determination of the gain on disposal of the portfolio into the venture and the assessment of the nature of the jointly controlled entity.
The accounting was completed during the prior year audit and therefore the risk is not relevant for this year end.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 79.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 40.0 million 2013: 40.0 million which is between 1-2% 2013: approximately 2% of net assets.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit Before Tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 6.5 million 2013: 7.0 million based on 5% 2013: 5% of that measure for testing of all balances impacting this financial performance measure, primarily revenue.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million 2013: 0.8 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit We perform full scope audits on 6 2013: 7 significant components, including Joint Ventures, located within each of the SEGRO plc reportable segments.
The reduction in components is due to Belgium no longer being considered significant following the disposal of Pegasus Park, in September 2014.
These components together comprise circa 96% 2013: 97% of total Group net assets and 93% 2013: 94% of EPRA adjusted profit before tax.
Our audit work at each of these components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component, which in all instances was lower than Group materiality.
The majority of the work on the key audit risks was performed centrally, including in respect of all valuations, material transactions and financing items.
Outside of the UK, where applicable, the Group audit team conducts a programme of planned visits designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
We have obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement in the most effective and efficient manner possible.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
106 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFSEGRO PLC CONTINUED Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Claire Faulkner Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 24 February 2015 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
