goverNaNce independent auditors report To the members of Shaftesbury PLc the notes to the financial statements, which include a Report on the financial statements summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
OuR OpInIOn Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in In our opinion: the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial Shaftesbury PLCs Group financial statements and Company statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial financial statements the financial statements give a true and statements and are identified as audited.
fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the as at 30 September 2014 and of the Groups profit and the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared THE SCOpE OF OuR auDIT anD OuR aREa OF FOCuS in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We conducted our audit in accordance with International IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events WHaT WE HaVE auDITED that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed Shaftesbury PLCs financial statements comprise: the risk of management override of internal controls, including the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2014: evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the directors that the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
then ended: The risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, then ended: is identified as an area of focus in the table below together the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address it.
the year then ended: and This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
AREA Of fOCuS HOW OuR AuDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA Of fOCuS Valuation of investment properties The valuers used by the Group, DTZ and Knight Frank, are well-known firms, with considerable experience of the The valuation of the Groups investment properties is the key Groups market.
We assessed the competence, capabilities component of the net asset value and of the Groups result for and objectivity of the firms, and verified their qualifications.
The result of the revaluation this year was a gain of We also discussed the scope of their work and reviewed the 426.4m 2013: 174.3m, which is accounted for under Change terms of their engagement in order to check that there were in the fair value of investment properties in the Group Statement no unusual terms or fee arrangements.
394.0m of the revaluation related to the wholly-owned portfolio, and 32.4m related to the We tested the data inputs underpinning the investment property Groups joint venture.
Asummary of the third party valuers valuation for a sample of properties, including rental income, report covering the wholly-owned portfolio can be found on acquisitions and capital expenditure, by agreeing them back pages 120 to 121 of the Annual Report.
to supporting documentation to assess the reliability, completeness and accuracy of the underlying data.
The valuations are carried out by third party valuers in accordance with the RICS Valuation - Professional Standards and IFRS 13 and We met with the valuers independently of management and take into account, where available, evidence of market transactions assessed the assumptions used and the reasons behind a for properties and locations comparable to those of the Group.
number of significant movements in the valuations.
These related primarily to yield compression, ERV growth and The Groups portfolio comprises retail, restaurants, offices and acquisitions in the year.
residential property focused solely in the West End of London.
Asa result the range of variables to be taken into account when making the key judgements and assumptions associated with the revaluation is narrower than for some other property companies.
co. uk annual report 2014 Independent auditors report continued AREA Of fOCuS HOW OuR AuDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA Of fOCuS There are, however, still significant judgements and estimates We also compared a sample of the valuations to our to be made in relation to the valuation of the Groups independently formed market expectations and challenged properties.
For the 2014 revaluation these included any differences.
In doing this we used evidence of comparable assumptions regarding yield compression and estimated rental market transactions and focused in particular on properties value ERV growth, which have moved favourably reflecting where the growth in capital values was higher or lower than the buoyancy of the central London property market.
our expectations based on market indices.
We focused our work on these key judgements as well as on the robustness ofthe valuation process in general.
HOW WE TaILORED THE auDIT SCOpE maTERIaLITy We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, in which the Group operates.
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial The Groups properties are combined into five villages spread statements as a whole.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the six entities, the Company and the Groups Based on our professional judgement, we determined joint venture.
All parts of the Group, including the joint venture, materiality for the financial statements as a whole as bellow: were identified as requiring an audit of their complete financial We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.1 million This work, all of which was carried out by the Group audit team, for financial statement line items where overall materiality applied together with additional procedures performed on the and 165,000 for line items where specific materiality applied consolidation, gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for 2013: 150,000 as well as misstatements below that amount our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overall Group materiality 22.0 million 2013: 3.1 million How we determined it 1% of total assets Specific materiality 3.3 million 2013: n a How we determined it 5% of profit before tax before net finance costs and investment property valuation movements.
Rationale for As explained above, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties benchmarksapplied and the balance sheet as a whole.
Given this, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition, a number of key performance indicators of the Group are driven by income statement items and we therefore also applied a lower specific materiality for testing certain revenue and expense line items and related working capital balances.
This year we changed the basis for calculating overall materiality from the prior year, from an adjusted profit benchmark to an asset based benchmark.
This was done to more closely align materiality with the key performance measure of the Group, being Net Asset Value.
This change did not impact on the level of audit work because we used a specific materiality level for certain line items and because, due to their nature, the extent of our other procedures was not determined using overall materiality.
Neither did the change affect our evaluation of audit findings because the total unadjusted differences were not above last years overall materiality level.
#084 Independent auditors report continued goverNaNce We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
GOInG COnCERn Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the section of the Annual Report on page 64, as required by statement, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis aDEquaCy OF aCCOunTInG RECORDS anD presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources InFORmaTIOn anD EXpLanaTIOnS RECEIVED to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the if, in our opinion: directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Other required reporting the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in COnSISTEnCy OF OTHER InFORmaTIOn agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Companies Act 2006 opinions We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In our opinion: the inf ormation given in the Strategic Report and the Directors DIRECTORS REmunERaTIOn Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the set out on page 60 with respect to internal control and risk Companies Act 2006. management systems and about share capital structures is Other Companies Act 2006 reporting consistent with the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you ISAs UK & Ireland reporting if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report our opinion: arising from this responsibility.
Information in the Annual Report is: CORpORaTE GOVERnanCE STaTEmEnT mat erially inconsistent with the information in the audited Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you financial statements: or if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement has not appar ently materially incorrect based on, or materially been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company arising from this responsibility.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the is otherwise misleading.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance the statement given by the directors on page 82, in accordance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
co. uk annual report 2014 Independent auditors report continued We test and examine information, using sampling and other Responsibilities for the financial auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to statements and the audit provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of OuR RESpOnSIbILITIES anD THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities set out In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation of information in the Annual Report to identify material the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to true and fair view.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Those standards require us to comply with the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other For and on behalf of  LLP purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come London save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
27 November 2014 WHaT an auDIT OF FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS InVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the r easonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
#086 Financial statements Shaftesbury SELf PORTRAIT Group statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 30 September 2014088 Balance sheets 089 As at 30 September 2014089 Cash flow statements 090 For the year ended 30 September 2014090 Statements of changes in equity 091 For the year ended 30 September 2014091 Notes to the financial statements092 For the year ended 30 September 2014092 Financial statements Group statement of comprehensive income 88 Balance sheets 89 Cash flow statements 90 Statements of changes in equity 91 Notes to the financial statements 92 #087
