78 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH OUR OPINION MATERIALITY In our opinion the Group financial statements: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of and cash flows for the year then ended: misstatements, both individually and on the financial have been properly prepared in accordance with statements as a whole.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Based on our professional judgement, we determined have been prepared in accordance with the materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and to be 11.2 million.
This represents 1% of total assets, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
which we consider an appropriate benchmark for an investment property company.
We set a specific This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say materiality level of 1.9 million for the audit of net rental in the remainder of this report.
income, finance costs, administrative expenses and the related working capital balances.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The Group financial statements, which are prepared by We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would Workspace Group PLC, comprise: report to them misstatements identified during our audit the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014: above 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that the Consolidated Income Statement and the amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income qualitative reasons.
for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: and Workspace Group PLC provides commercial property to the notes to the Group financial statements, which let throughout London.
The Group financial statements include a summary of significant accounting policies are a consolidation of the eight trading entities, two and other explanatory information.
investment holding companies, one service company, the Parent Company entity and the Groups three The financial reporting framework that has been applied joint ventures.
in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Except for the joint ventures, where we focused our work on the share of profits and net assets including Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting investment properties that are recognised in the Group framework have been presented elsewhere in the accounts, all entities were identified as requiring an audit Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial of their complete financial information, either due to statements.
These are cross-referenced from the their size or their risk characteristics.
financial statements and are identified as audited.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES determined the type of work that we needed to perform We conducted our audit in accordance with International to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial AREAS OF PARTICULAR AUDIT FOCUS statements are free from material misstatement, whether In preparing the financial statements, the directors caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: made a number of subjective judgements, for example in whether the accounting policies are appropriate to respect of significant accounting estimates that involved the Groups circumstances and have been making assumptions and considering future events that consistently applied and adequately disclosed: are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work the reasonableness of significant accounting in these areas by assessing the directors judgements estimates made by the directors: and against available evidence, forming our own judgements, the overall presentation of the financial statements.
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial In our audit, we tested and examined information, using information in the Annual Report to identify material sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent inconsistencies with the audited Group financial we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis statements and to identify any information that is for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the procedures or a combination of both.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed We considered the following areas to be those that the area of focus required particular focus in the current year.
This is not Fraud in revenue As the foundation of the evidence we a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by recognition obtained regarding the revenue recognised our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the during the year, we evaluated the relevant ISAs UK & Ireland Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that IT systems and tested the internal controls presume there is a risk they considered to be significant issues in relation to over the accuracy and timing of revenue of fraud in revenue the financial statements is set out on pages 51 to 54. recognised in the financial statements.
recognition because of the pressure We tested a sample of revenue transactions management may feel back to original lease agreements and cash Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed to achieve the planned received to assess the existence of revenue.
the area of focus results.
We focused We also tested journal entries posted Potential misstatement We assessed the competence, capabilities on the existence of the to revenue accounts to identify and of property valuations and objectivity of managements third recognition of rental investigate unusual or irregular items.
party valuers and the scope of their work income and service We focused on this through discussions with the valuers, charge revenue, because area because of the verifying their qualifications and reviewing these revenue streams magnitude of the the terms of their engagement.
are high in quantity and investment property low in value.
Therefore balance and because We assessed the control environment of they are systematic the assumptions used the Group, including controls within the and homogenous.
in determining the fair entity over the valuers work.
Manipulation would values of investment We tested the data inputs of the be most likely to occur properties involve investment property valuation including through creating significant judgement rental income, acquisitions and capital fictitious revenue and complexities.
expenditure by agreeing them back to journals.
supporting documentation to assess the reliability, completeness and accuracy of Risk of management We assessed the overall control the underlying data in the valuation model.
override of internal environment of the Group, including the controls arrangements for staff to whistle-blow We held discussions with managements inappropriate actions, and interviewed third party valuers to understand and ISAs UK & Ireland senior management.
We examined the assess the assumptions underlying the require that we significant accounting estimates and valuation calculations and the rationale consider this.
judgements relevant to the financial behind all significant movements over statements for evidence of bias by the the year.
directors that may represent a risk of We tested the valuation performed material misstatement due to fraud.
by the external valuers by checking the We also tested journal entries.
reasonableness of the assumptions used in the calculations, including tenure and tenancy of the properties, prevailing GOING CONCERN market yields and comparable market Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the transactions.
We also compared the directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation valuations to our independently formed to going concern.
We have nothing to report having market expectations and challenged any performed our review.
We focused, in particular, on the development properties whose valuations are, by nature, more As noted in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, judgemental.
the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going Accounting for Glebe We assessed the accounting treatment concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis proceeds sharing of the Glebe proceeds sharing agreement presumes that the Group has adequate resources to agreement by reference to the appropriate accounting standards.
In particular, we: remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to We focused on this read the contract and considered its legal, do so, for at least one year from the date the financial area because this is commercial and economic substance: met the first year in which statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have with the directors and the Audit attributable profits concluded that the directors use of the going concern Committee to understand their basis for have been recognised basis is appropriate.
selecting the accounting treatment: and under the agreement formed an independent view, considering and the accounting alternative accounting treatments and However, because not all future events or conditions can policy has changed in compared that to the Audit Committees.
The directors be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to and the Audit We tested the application of the the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Committee considered accounting policy by: agreeing the alternative accounting methodology used in calculating the split treatments for the of proceeds to the signed agreement attributable profits.
with HBOS: agreeing the inputs to the calculation to supporting documentation, The directors needed including the signed agreements with to exercise judgement HBOS: and testing that the proceeds in the selection of the sharing agreement has been applied to accounting policy used all properties that the Group had a legal to determine the profit or constructive obligation at the year attributable to the end to sell.
non-controlling interest recognised under the agreement.
80 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC CONTINUED OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to In our opinion: you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: the information given in the Strategic Report and materially inconsistent with the information in the the Report of the Directors for the financial year for audited Group financial statements: or which the Group financial statements are prepared is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially consistent with the Group financial statements: and inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group the information given in the Corporate Governance acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Report set out on pages 42 to 54 in the Annual is otherwise misleading.
Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital We have no exceptions to report arising from structures is consistent with the financial statements.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION AND THE AUDIT ADEQUACY OF INFORMATION AND OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED DIRECTORS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors report to you if, in our opinion we have not received Responsibilities set out on page 77, the directors are all the information and explanations we require for responsible for the preparation of the Group financial our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising statements and for being satisfied that they give a from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to on the Group financial statements in accordance with report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards directors remuneration specified by law have not been require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT for and only for the Companys members as a body in Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies report to you if, in our opinion a corporate governance Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving statement has not been prepared by the Parent these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising other purpose or to any other person to whom this from this responsibility.
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the OTHER MATTER Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of We have reported separately on the parent company the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We financial statements of Workspace Group PLC for the have nothing to report having performed our review.
year ended 31 March 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as On page 77 of the Annual Report, as required by having been audited.
the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be BOWKER ANDREWS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR fair, balanced and understandable and provides the FOR AND ON BEHALF OF information necessary for members to assess the  LLP Groups performance, business model and strategy.
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND On page 52, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the STATUTORY AUDITORS Audit Committee has set out the significant issues London that it considered in relation to the financial statements, 3 June 2014 and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
