Independent Auditors Report to the Members of N Brown Group Plc Opinion on financial statements of The financial statements comprise the we have concluded that the directors N Brown Group plc Consolidated Income Statement, the use of the going concern basis of In our opinion: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive accounting in the preparation of the the financial statements give a true and Income, the group and parent company financial statements is appropriate: and fair view of the state of the groups and Balance Sheets, the Consolidated we have not identified any material of the parent companys affairs as at Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated uncertainties that may cast significant 1 March 2014 and of the groups profit Statement of Changes in Equity, and doubt on the groups ability to continue for the 52 week period then ended: the related notes 1 to 39.
The financial as a going concern.
the group financial statements have reporting framework that has been applied been properly prepared in accordance in the preparation of the group financial However, because not all future events with International Financial Reporting statements is applicable law and IFRSs or conditions can be predicted, this Standards IFRSs as adopted by the as adopted by the European Union.
statement is not a guarantee as to the European Union: The financial reporting framework that groups ability to continue as a going the parent company financial statements has been applied in the preparation of concern.
have been properly prepared in the parent company financial statements accordance with United Kingdom is applicable law and United Kingdom Our assessment of risks of material Generally Accepted Accounting Accounting Standards United Kingdom misstatement Practice: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The assessed risks of material the financial statements have been misstatement described below are those prepared in accordance with the Going concern that had the greatest effect on our audit requirements of the Companies As required by the Listing Rules we strategy, the allocation of resources in Act 2006 and, as regards the group have reviewed the directors statement the audit and directing the efforts of the financial statements, Article 4 of the contained on page 15 that the group is engagement team: IAS Regulation.
We confirm that: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of customer receivables The impairment provision is a critical judgement in preparing We have focussed our audit challenge in a number of areas, the accounts and is estimated using a model which contains including benchmarking the methodology and assumptions, a number of inputs and assumptions that includes the arrears comparing the assumptions to objective evidence, evaluating stage of a customer, previous payment history, the historical the design and implementation of the key controls, checking performance of other customers and the length of time that the the calculation methodology for compliance with accounting borrower has been a customer.
standards and industry practice and assessing the movement in the provision compared to trends in arrears, write-offs, recoveries and the size and mix of the customer receivables portfolio.
We consulted with credit specialists to design the audit methodology and to enhance our challenge of assumptions and methodology through benchmarking.
Data specialists checked the integrity of the calculations by performing an independent recalculation of the provision and checked the completeness and accuracy of data inputs by testing the underlying transactions on a sample basis.
Regulatory The Group operates in a regulated environment not only because We involved regulatory specialists in our evaluation of the design it is a listed entity, but also because of the unsecured credit it and implementation of controls and practices in place in relation provides to customers.
Specifically: to the processes the group has established to manage regulatory The Financial Conduct Authority FCA began to regulate the compliance and governance and benchmarked these against consumer credit market on 1 April 2014.
The FCA has the sources of best practice.
power to suspend or withdraw a firms regulatory permissions, so there is a risk that if a firm does not comply with regulations, We reviewed correspondence with regulators and selected a then their permission to lend to customers may be suspended sample of customer complaints for testing and used analytical or terminated.
procedures to assess the completeness of any provisions for Regulated companies must ensure that their governance such complaints.
arrangements are appropriate, that only authorised people within the group are approved to carry out work in this regulated environment and that their boards and subcommittees are operating effectively.
Payment Protection Insurance PPI remains an area of focus for the group given the media exposure this has received in recent years.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of N Brown Group Plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Taxation provisions The group has ongoing debates with HMRC in respect of open Our audit team included independent taxation specialists who taxation positions and certain areas of expense.
The outcomes of have reviewed correspondence with HMRC to date and considered these cases are uncertain and therefore are subject to estimates whether this correspondence has been interpreted and applied by management.
correctly, having also considered current industry practice.
We have reviewed and recalculated the amounts provided and agreed these to supporting documentation to ensure the integrity of the data provided.
We have assessed the judgements taken and concluded on whether these judgements made are within a reasonable range of possible outcomes.
Inventory provisioning The inventory provision is based on the amount of current and We utilised data analytics to test the inventory provision by non-current stock on hand at the year end and the forecast comparing the selling price of inventory in the year to the cost of disposal plan, which estimates inventory items to be sold both the inventory as well as analysing the ageing of inventory items.
Therefore the provision is the subject of In addition, we considered the appropriateness of the provisioning considerable management judgement.
methodology through analysing the inventory disposal channels utilised in the year and comparing those to the forecast disposal plan.
To confirm existence of the inventory and the inventory counting procedures, we test counted inventory independently twice in the year.
The Audit Committees consideration each component is compiled at the Matters on which we are required to of these risks is set out on pages 26 27. groups head office, we performed an report by exception audit covering 100% of the groups trading Adequacy of explanations received and Our audit procedures relating to these components and accordingly our samples accounting records matters were designed in the context of were selected from 100% of the groups Under the Companies Act 2006 we are our audit of the financial statements as a total assets, revenue and profit.
All group required to report to you if, in our opinion: whole, and not to express an opinion on companies are subject to the same we have not received all the information individual accounts or disclosures.
Our group-wide controls and consolidation and explanations we require for our opinion on the financial statements is not processes, which were audited as part audit: or modified with respect to any of the risks of our work.
adequate accounting records have not described above, and we do not express been kept by the parent company, or an opinion on these individual matters.
The group has a significant trading returns adequate for our audit have not component, J. D. Williams & Company been received from branches not visited Our application of materiality Limited, which was focused on as part of by us: or We define materiality as the magnitude of the audit.
The audit of this company was the parent company financial statements misstatement in the financial statements completed to a lower materiality than for are not in agreement with the accounting that makes it probable that the economic the consolidated accounts.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable We have nothing to report in respect of person would be changed or influenced.
At the parent entity level we also tested these matters.
We use materiality both in planning the the consolidation process and carried scope of our audit work and in evaluating out analytical procedures to confirm our Directors remuneration the results of our work.
conclusion that there were no significant Under the Companies Act 2006 we risks of material misstatement of the are also required to report if in our We determined materiality for the group aggregated financial information of the opinion certain disclosures of directors to be 4.9 million, which is 5% of pre-tax remaining components not subject to audit remuneration have not been made or the profit, and 1% of equity.
or audit of specified account balances.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with We agreed with the Audit Committee Opinion on other matters prescribed the accounting records and returns.
We that we would report to the Committee by the Companies Act 2006 have nothing to report arising from these all audit differences in excess of 97,000, In our opinion: matters.
as well as differences below that threshold the part of the Directors Remuneration that, in our view, warranted reporting Report to be audited has been properly Corporate Governance Statement on qualitative grounds.
We also report prepared in accordance with the Under the Listing Rules we are also to the Audit Committee on disclosure Companies Act 2006: and required to review the part of the matters that we identified when assessing the information given in the Strategic Corporate Governance Statement the overall presentation of the financial Report and the Directors Report for relating to the companys compliance statements.
the financial year for which the financial with nine provisions of the UK Corporate statements are prepared is consistent Governance Code.
We have nothing to An overview of the scope of our audit with the financial statements.
report arising from our review.
Given the nature of the groups corporate structure where all evidence relating to 54 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of N Brown Group Plc Our duty to read other information in the accordance with applicable law and misstatement, whether caused by fraud Annual Report International Standards on Auditing UK or error.
This includes an assessment of: Under International Standards on Auditing and Ireland.
Those standards require whether the accounting policies are UK and Ireland, we are required to report us to comply with the Auditing Practices appropriate to the groups and the parent to you if, in our opinion, information in the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
companys circumstances and have annual report is: We also comply with International been consistently applied and adequately materially inconsistent with the Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and disclosed: the reasonableness of information in the audited financial Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools significant accounting estimates made statements: or aim to ensure that our quality control by the directors: and the overall apparently materially incorrect based procedures are effective, understood presentation of the financial statements.
on, or materially inconsistent with, our and applied.
Our quality controls and In addition, we read all the financial and knowledge of the group acquired in the systems include our dedicated non-financial information in the annual course of performing our audit: or professional standards review team, report to identify material inconsistencies otherwise misleading.
strategically focused second partner with the audited financial statements reviews and independent partner reviews.
and to identify any information that is In particular, we are required to apparently materially incorrect based consider whether we have identified any This report is made solely to the on, or materially inconsistent with, the inconsistencies between our knowledge companys members, as a body, in knowledge acquired by us in the course acquired during the audit and the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of of performing the audit.
If we become directors statement that they consider the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work aware of any apparent material the annual report is fair, balanced and has been undertaken so that we might misstatements or inconsistencies we understandable and whether the annual state to the companys members those consider the implications for our report.
report appropriately discloses those matters we are required to state to them matters that we communicated to the audit in an auditors report and for no other Damian Sanders ACA committee which we consider should have purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted Senior Statutory Auditor been disclosed.
We confirm that we have by law, we do not accept or assume for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP not identified any such inconsistencies or responsibility to anyone other than the Chartered Accountants and misleading statements.
company and the companys members as Statutory Auditor a body, for our audit work, for this report, Manchester, UK Respective responsibilities of or for the opinions we have formed.
directors and auditor 23 May 2014 As explained more fully in the Directors Scope of the audit of the financial Responsibilities Statement, the directors statements are responsible for the preparation of An audit involves obtaining evidence the financial statements and for being about the amounts and disclosures in satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the financial statements sufficient to give Our responsibility is to audit and express reasonable assurance that the financial an opinion on the financial statements in statements are free from material N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 55
