70 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only underlying information within these leases to create our own Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit expectation of the related adjustment and compared this to 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified that recorded by the Group.
The accuracy and completeness We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group of this database was considered with reference to the sale plc Cineworld or Group for the 53 week period ended and purchase agreement.
1 January 2015 set out on pages 73 to 124.
In our opinion: To identify leases at non-market rental rates, we first the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state considered the competence, objectivity and capabilities of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at of the Groups external property expert.
We assessed and 1 January 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 53 week challenged the experts report on market rental rates by period then ended: comparing rental costs as a percentage of site profit to the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Cinema City asset portfolio and analysing country trends.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: We also considered the adequacy of the Groups the Parent Company financial statements have been disclosure regarding the acquisition and the underlying properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting assumptions applied.
Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Onerous lease provisions 8.3m with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, Refer to page 42 Audit Committee report, page 84 as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the accounting policy and page 110 financial disclosures.
The risk: the Group provides for onerous lease costs, on acquisition of a cinema as part of a business, when it 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement considers that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial from operating the cinema are in excess of the economic statements the risks of material misstatement that had the benefits expected to be received from operating it, but greatest effect on our audit were as follows: where it continues to be rational to operate the cinema as the cinema contributes towards the unavoidable lease costs.
Acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B. V. Cinema City The provision is calculated and updated annually, using a Total consideration 510.6m valuation model that requires consideration of existing Refer to page 42 Audit Committee report, page 80 market conditions and estimates of future operating cash accounting policy and pages 92 and 93 financial disclosures.
flows from each cinema to calculate the level of onerous The risk: the acquisition of Cinema City on 28 February 2014 lease.
The value of the provision is sensitive to the underlying was a significant acquisition for Cineworld.
The identification assumptions around future cash flows and discount rates, and valuation of acquired intangible assets is highly due to the fact that the Group has no direct control over the judgemental as it is sensitive to underlying assumptions films released for distribution, limited visibility over the around future cash flows, especially growth and discount release schedule more than 12 months into the future and the rates, contributory asset charges and useful economic lives.
variety in performance of the films across the diverse In addition, valuing and identifying the acquired leases is footprint of the Group.
The risk is increased in the current complicated by the geographical spread and diversity of year by the potential existence of onerous leases in the Cinema Citys operations.
109 leases were agreed or acquired Cinema City Group.
acquired with Cinema City, and these lease agreements contain a large number of discrete terms including stepped Our response: our principal audit procedures included: for rentals, and varying lengths and break dates.
Given the large Cinema City leases acquired in the year, obtaining and number of leases and variety of lease terms acquired there is challenging the Cinema City Groups cash flow forecast by significant complexity in recognising the acquisition cinema against historical performance trends by cinema, and adjustment in relation to stepped rental terms in order to comparing the onerous lease cinemas identified by the recognise rental expense going forward on a straight line Group against these cash flow forecasts and Cineworlds basis over the life of the lease.
Further to this, judgement is onerous lease accounting policy.
involved in the determination of the fair value of the asset or liability arising on the acquisition of any over or under market For all Cinema City, Cineworld and Picturehouse cinemas for rent leases acquired.
which a provision has been made we compared the Groups forecast cash flows to historical cash flow trends: considered Our response: in this area our principal audit procedures the appropriateness and accuracy of the valuation model, included, first, assessing the competence of the Groups including assessing key input data, such as growth rates and external valuation expert and their objectivity and capability discount rates, against our internal benchmark data: and to perform valuations of the acquired intangible assets.
applied sensitivities to the underlying assumptions.
We also We then used our own valuation specialists to assist us in considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure over the evaluating whether all intangible assets had been identified, degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
and the appropriateness of the models and assumptions used in determining the asset valuations.
Our evaluation of Recognition of Virtual Print Fee VPF income 12.5m the key assumptions included comparison to Cinema City Refer to page 42 Audit Committee report, page 84 historical trend data, external market data and applying accounting policy and page 99 financial disclosures.
The risk: VPF income is recognised on an accruals basis dependent on the number and type of screenings using With respect to the adjustment in respect of stepped rental digital display equipment.
The terms of the UK VPF contract terms we compiled a central database of cinema leases are complex as they include the number, type, timing and acquired from the signed lease agreements, using the Cineworld Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 71 overlap of screenings.
In addition, the large volume of of sensitivity analysis of both discount rates and forecast cash flows and the resulting headroom on the value-in-use screening data has historically led to differences between the third party supplier and the Groups estimate due to estimates across all valuations and considered the appropriateness of the resulting disclosures in light processing delays and the inherent limitations of the Groups information systems, which cannot fully reflect the of this sensitivity.
complexity of the underlying VPF agreements.
Further, there is the potential for penalties to be applied on certain Scoping and Coverage screenings that are prohibited under the VPF agreement.
Additionally, there is then a six-month delay between the Group Revenue % income being recognised, the balances being fully reconciled with the third party supplier and the receivable being paid.
Group audited 54% As part of the acquisition of Cinema City seven VPF contracts Component audited 33% with seven distributors were acquired across seven countries.
Out of scope 13% Although each contract is unique, the terms of these contracts are simpler than those of the existing UK contracts.
However, given the continued complexity of accounting in the UK, the interval between balances being reconciled to third party information and income received and the number of additional Group profit Before Taxation % VPF contracts acquired, VPF income is deemed to be one of the Groups key judgement areas.
Our response: our principal audit procedures in this area Group audited 69% included: testing the Groups controls over the VPF income Component audited 24% recognition and collection process, including assessing, in Out of scope 7% comparison to information received the third party supplier, the accuracy and detail of the Groups screening information and the appropriateness of any assumptions applied by the Group to this information: testing the receipt of fee income after the period end: and considering the appropriateness of Group Total Assets % the level of VPF income recognised by reference to the terms of the VPF agreement and underlying screening data.
For the VPF contracts acquired in the year, we obtained and Group audited 70% read all of the agreements to identify the principal terms and Component audited 23% existence of penalty clauses and considered this in conjunction Out of scope 7% with the accrued income recognised.
For all VPF contracts, we performed a recalculation of the expected income and any anticipated penalty exposure.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope estimation involved in arriving at the income recognised.
of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole Carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment 297.6m was set at 2.7m 2013: 2.3m, determined with reference to a Refer to page 42 Audit Committee report, page 84 benchmark of Group profit before taxation, of which it accounting policy and pages 94 and 95 financial disclosures.
The lower percentage in 2014 The risk: There is a risk that at an individual cinema level the reflects the increased risk profile of the audit following the property, plant and equipment balances may prove to be acquisition of Cinema City: we will continue to re-assess irrecoverable due to local factors, such as increased materiality on an ongoing basis considering the changing risk competition, materially affecting site performance.
difficulties involved in predicting the performance of sites operated by the Group increase this risk, and are illustrated We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and by the fact that in the prior year an impairment charge of uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 135,000, in 1.3m was recognised and in the current year both an addition to other identified misstatements that warranted impairment charge of 0.3m and an impairment reversal of reporting on qualitative grounds.
As explained above, there is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future The Group operates as Cineworld and Picturehouse in the UK cash flows.
Given this inherent uncertainty and the number and Cinema City in seven countries across the UK, Central and of sites across the Group.
This is therefore deemed to be one Eastern Europe and Israel, each of which is considered to be a of the Groups key judgement areas.
We performed audits for Group reporting purposes on five of these components, resulting in Our response: in this area our principal procedures included: coverage of 87% of total Group revenue: 93% of Group profit analysis of the Groups historical ability to forecast cash before taxation: and 93% of Group total assets.
For the generation, and challenging the reasonableness of current remaining components, we performed analytical procedures at forecasts given the future plans of the business and the risk a Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no perceived in those strategies from our understanding of the significant risks of material misstatement within these.
We performed an assessment Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72 Independent Auditors Report Continued Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: The work was performed by component auditors at four components in Poland, Israel, Hungary and Romania, and by adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Group audit team for Cineworld, United Kingdom.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Group team instructed the component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered which included the relevant the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in risks detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by approved the component materiality, which was set at 1.8m for all components, having regard to the mix of size and risk law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we profile of the businesses within the Group.
The Group audit team visited two component locations in Poland and Israel to assess the audit risk and strategy and gain Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: an understanding of the local finance environment.
During the audit telephone conference meetings were also held with the the Directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern: and auditors of these components and the two other components that were not visited.
At these meetings, the findings and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 35 to 44 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten observations reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work deemed necessary by the provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Scope and responsibilities In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the www.
This report is financial statements.
made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which regarding our responsibilities, published on our website we are required to report by exception at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of identified other information in the Annual Report that contains this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the of our opinions.
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to you if: for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants we have identified material inconsistencies between the 15 Canada Square knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors London E14 5GL statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 12 March 2015 financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
