James Fisher and Sons plc Independent auditors report To the members of James Fisher and Sons plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied We have audited the financial statements of James Fisher and Sons plc for the year ended 31December 2014 set out on pages 55 to 102.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Goodwill 114.4m Refer to page 30 Audit Committee report, page 64 accounting policy and page77 financial disclosures The risk: There is a risk of irrecoverability of the Groups goodwill balance due to varying levels of demand in certain markets.
An impairment assessment of goodwill is carried out annually by the Group by assessing the value in use of individual cash generating units CGUs which requires significant assumptions about future developments.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash ows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included testing of the Groups budgeting procedures and the principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash ow model.
This included comparison of the key assumptions to external data as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as revenue growth, gross margin assumptions, cost ination and long-term growth rates based on our knowledge of the industry.
We considered the historical accuracy of the Groups growth assumptions and used external data and our own valuation specialists when assessing the discount rate applied.
We have compared the Groups market capitalisation to the valuation derived from the forecasts used in the impairment calculations to assess their reasonableness.
We further critically assessed the sensitivities applied by the Group.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reects the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Revenue 444.8m Refer to page 30 Audit Committee report, page 62 accounting policy and page 72 financial disclosures The risk: Where services rendered are provided through long-term contracts and are not completed at the balance sheet date, revenue is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction measured by reference to the proportion of total expected costs incurred.
The level of total expected costs to be incurred on each contract is estimated by the Group and includes certain judgements as contracts may run over a number of accounting periods and include forecasts in relation to future costs including labour and materials which are not yet contractually agreed.
Some contracts for services allow for certain costs to be recharged to customers which requires a level of judgement to be applied as to the eligibility of such costs.
Our response: Our audit procedures included testing the Groups internal controls over revenue.
We inspected the terms of significant sales contracts to assess whether they were consistent with the detailed calculations being considered.
When assessing the stage of completion on contracts we agreed amounts recognised to conrmatory evidence on a sample basis.
This included the agreement of actual costs incurred to invoice and the assessment of any judgements applied in the projection of total contract costs through consideration of the Groups historical experience of costs on similar contracts.
For individually significant contracts we formed our own view of the nature and level of eligible recharges and compared this to the Groups assessment.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups revenue disclosures including the accounting policy.
Operating in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation Refer to page 30 Audit Committee report The risk: The Group is multinational and is developing its operations in a number of emerging markets.
Operating in these territories presents increased contractual, operational and financial risks due to the need to comply with potentially uncertain regulatory and legislative environments, including legislation relating to tax.
Breaches of compliance or inappropriate assumptions over provisioning for the uncertain legislation could have a significant effect on the results and financial position of the Group and is one of the judgemental areas our audit is focused on.
Our response: Our audit procedures included using our own local specialists where appropriate to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions for legal and tax matters based on their knowledge and experience of local regulations and practices.
We considered the exposure to breaches of legislation by making appropriate enquiry of the Group in relation to compliance with laws and regulations and the existence and status of any significant legal matters.
We also inspected the compliance logs and reports returned by overseas locations to identify actual and potential noncompliance with laws and regulations, both those specic to the Groups business and those relating to the conduct of the business generally.
Where significant matters were identied we obtained conrmations from the Groups legal counsel.
We inspected correspondence, where available, with the local tax authorities and using our experience of local practices and court interpretations we assessed the assumptions made by the Group in arriving at any potential tax provision and terms of relevant contracts where there are material local indirect taxes.
Accounting for acquisitions Refer to page 30 Audit Committee report, page 62 accounting policies and page 82 financial disclosures The risk: The Group has assessed the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and estimated the fair value of contingent consideration payable.
Certain balances can be determined based on estimates and assumptions about the future performance of the acquired businesses.
As there is a significant level of judgement involved in estimating the fair value of the intangible assets and contingent consideration, we consider this to be a significant audit risk.
52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our response: We challenged the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group to derive the fair value of intangible assets.
We used our valuation specialists to assist us in considering the approach taken by the Group and assessed key assumptions and obtained corroborative evidence for the explanations provided by comparing key assumptions to market data, underlying accounting records, past performance of the acquired business, our past experience of similar transactions and the Groups forecasts supporting the acquisitions.
We have also considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the fair value of acquired intangible assets.
With respect to contingent consideration our work was focused on the forecast results of businesses acquired, which is the basis on which the estimate of contingent consideration is determined.
The assumptions underlying those forecasts were compared with historical trading performance, results since the acquisition date, the order book at year end and the Groups planned development of the businesses.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to contingent consideration and the factors relevant in determining this balance.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.2m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 49.2m, of which it represents 4.5%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identied misstatements exceeding 0.1m, in addition to other identied misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 107 reporting components, we subjected 51 to audits for Group reporting purposes.
We conducted reviews of financial information including enquiry at a further 30 non-significant components on the basis of other qualitative and quantitative factors based on our audit judgement.
These components were not individually nancially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes: however, they were covered in our audit scope in order to provide further coverage over the Groups results.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Number Group Group profit Group of components revenue before tax total assets Audits for Group reporting purposes 51 90% 87% 87% Reviews of financial information including enquiry 30 8% 7% 9% Total 81 98% 94% 96% The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.2m to 1.0m, having regard to the mix of size and risk prole of the Group across the components.
The work on 48 of the 81 components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
Telephone conferences were held with these component auditors at the locations which were not audited directly by the Group audit team.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodied In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identied other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors responsibilities statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate governance report on page 24 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 James Fisher and Sons plc Independent auditors report continued Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
David Bills Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 2March 2015 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
