112 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report to themembers of Glencore plc Opinion on financial statements of Glencore plc Going concern In our opinion the financial statements: We have reviewed the Directors statement contained on page 108 that the Group is a going concern.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the We confirm that: year then ended: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going have been properly prepared in accordance with concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as financial statements is appropriate: and adopted by the European Union: and we have not identified material uncertainties that may cast have been properly prepared in accordance with the significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a Companies Jersey Law 1991. going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated However, because not all future events or conditions can be Statement of Income Loss, the Consolidated Statement of predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Comprehensive Income Loss, the Consolidated Statement ability to continue as a going concern.
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Our assessment of risks of material the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework misstatement that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law Our risk assessment process continues throughout the and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
audit and as a result we have tailored our assessment of the risk associated with the prior year acquisition of Xstrata Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued plc to reflect the current year risk, being the finalisation by the IASB of the associated purchase price allocation.
There were no As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group significant changes from prior year in respect of the other in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European identified risks.
Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the as issued by the IASB.
efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition accounting Finalisation of acquisition accounting for Xstrata plc Accounting for the acquisition of Xstrata plc is a complex We challenged the Groups determination of the final fair and judgemental exercise, requiring determination value adjustments to the provisionally reported values of the of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, and acquired assets and liabilities of Xstrata plc.
the allocation of the acquisition date goodwill to cashWe performed audit procedures on these fair value generating units.
adjustments to confirm that they related to new information The standard allows the fair value of assets acquired to obtained about facts and circumstances that existed on be continually refined for a window of a year after the acquisition date.
acquisition date where judgement is required to ensure the Where adjustments were made, we used Deloitte mining adjustments made reflect new information obtained about valuation specialists to assist in our challenge of these facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition adjustments.
Our challenge related to the underlying macro-economic In total, adjustments recognised within the one year assumptions used within the detailed models which window amounted to a net reduction of $644 million in the supported the final valuation adjustments.
This included the fair value of the net assets acquired and a corresponding appropriateness of discount rates, commodity prices, foreign increase in the day 1 impairment charge on goodwill to exchange and cross-checking valuation calculations against $8,124 million.
comparable companies and associated multiples, whilst These adjustments are retrospective in nature and have considering the risk of management bias.
directly impacted the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisition and the day 1 impairment charge on goodwill.
113 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition accounting continued Post-acquisition, these adjustments also impact the With regards to the sale of Las Bambas subsequent to the amounts recognised in the statement of income, including Xstrata acquisition, which was classified as an asset held depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, for sale on acquisition, we considered the executed sales whichare dependent on the initial fair values.
agreement as evidence to support the fair value.
Refer to Key judgements within note 1 and additionally notes 5 and 25.
Impairments The carrying value of the Groups non-current assets, which We reviewed managements assessment of the indicators includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, of impairment and challenged the significant assumptions investments in associates and joint ventures, amounted to used in this initial review.
Where significant indicators of $98,986 million at 31 December 2014. impairment were identified, we utilised Deloitte mining valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of Recoverability of these non-current assets is dependent managements recoverable value models.
on macro-economic assumptions about future commodity prices, discount and exchange rates as well as internal We challenged the significant assumptions used in assumptions related to future production levels and impairment testing for intangible assets, property, plant operating costs.
and equipment, associates and joint ventures, specifically the commodity price, foreign exchange, assumed These estimates are particularly significant due to production levels and discount rate assumptions, including commodity price volatility e. g. iron ore, coal and oil, consideration of the risk of management bias.
assumed future production and uncertain economic outlook.
The outcome of impairment assessments could Our challenge included comparing input assumptions to varysignificantly were different assumptions applied.
third party forecasts and production to life of mine plans and reserves and resources estimates and confirming the In total impairments amounting to $1,101 million were adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements.
recognised in the year ended 31 December 2014.
Refer to Key estimates and assumptions within note 1 andadditionally note 5.
Revenue recognition Revenue recognition has been identified as a risk, We carried out testing relating to internal controls, including particularly in respect of the completeness and accuracy of IT general controls surrounding major IT applications capture of trades within the trade book and the timing of and critical interfaces over revenue recognition and revenue recognition for commodity sales with deliveries completeness and accuracy of trade capture.
On a sample occurring on or around year-end.
Due to the significant basis, we agreed deliveries occurring near 31 December volume of transactions and the complexity of the supporting 2014 to supporting documentation to assess that the IFRS IT systems, minor errors could, in aggregate, have a material revenue recognition criteria were met for recognised sales impact on the financial statements.
and obtained third party confirmations where relevant to check completeness and accuracy of trade books.
We Refer to note 1. also performed testing on journal entries using computer assisted profiling techniques to test for any management override of internal controls related to revenue recognition.
Fair value measurements within the marketing operations Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, We carried out internal control testing and performed financial assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective detailed substantive testing on a sample basis the related area often requiring significant estimates, particularly fair value measurements specifically testing the evidence where valuations utilise unobservable inputs.
As the supporting unobservable inputs utilised in Level 2 and 3 Groups marketing inventories and other financial assets measurements in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in note and liabilities are measured at fair value at each reporting 28 to the financial statements.
date, these fair value measurements significantly impact theGroups results.
Refer to Key estimates and assumptions within note 1 andadditionally notes 27 and 28.
114 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Classification of financial instruments Further to the above, classification of contracts relating to We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies the Groups marketing operations is a judgemental area, and associated product flows within the Groups marketing particularly sales contracts where the Group physically departments.
We analysed the trade books to identify delivers its own production to a third party own use, incidents where contracts were not physically delivered rather than those which form part of the Groups marketing net settled, which may indicate tainting of the own use operations.
Differences in classification affect recognition criteria.
Where a contract had been net settled, we checked of associated gains and losses as contracts which are that the contract was appropriately ring-fenced from the ownuse are exempt from mark-to-market accounting.
own use trade book and marked to market reflecting the underlying facts and circumstances.
Refer to notes 27 and 28. Credit and performance risk The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising We undertook internal control testing of the Groups from the Groups global marketing operations and trade centralised and local credit and performance risk advances, particularly in markets demonstrating significant monitoring procedures.
We challenged managements price volatility with limited liquidity and terminal markets.
assessment of the recoverability of aged and overdue This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, receivables, loans and advance payments with delayed or where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery overdue deliveries, considering historical patterns of trading and customers are unable to make payments.
and settlement as well as recent communications with the counterparties.
In addition, we made specific inquiries to understand positions in commodities with high price volatility during the year, particularly with respect to oil, coal, nickel, iron ore and certain agricultural products, as there were periods of significant price volatility with respect to these commodities.
Taxation There is significant judgement around accounting for We considered the appropriateness of managements income taxes particularly in light of the number of assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of jurisdictions in which the Group operates, which give generating future taxable profits to support the recognition rise to complexity and uncertainty in the calculation of of deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable income taxes and deferred tax assets and consideration of profits and consistency of these forecasts with the Groups contingent liabilities associated with tax years open to audit.
Refer to Key judgements within note 1 and additionally We reviewed and challenged managements assessment of note 6. uncertain tax positions through discussions with the Group taxation department, reviewing correspondence with local tax authorities and utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where appropriate, to assess the adequacy of associated provisions and disclosures.
The risks described above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 95.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
115 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information These 51 components account for 95% of the Groups net Our application of materiality assets 2013: 84%, 89% of the Groups revenue 2013: 93% We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement and 93% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA 2013: 85%.
in the financial statements that makes it probable that the During the year a number of Group components were economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person aggregated for reporting purposes in line with the Groups would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in strategy to streamline its global reporting structure.
planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the This has resulted in the number of Group components results of our work.
scoped into our audit reducing: this aggregation has not impacted our overall audit coverage.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $300 million 2013: $250 million, which, as in 2013, is approximately Our audit work at these 51 Group components was 6.4% of normalised pre-tax profit, and below 1% of equity.
performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, Pre-tax profit has been normalised in determining the Group audit team and which were applicable to each materiality to exclude items which, due to their nature individual entity.
These materiality levels were lower and or expected infrequency of the underlying events, are than Group materiality and ranged from $2 million to not considered indicative of continuing operations of the $100 million 2013: $3 million to $100 million.
Group and so do not form part of the Groups internally or externally monitored primary KPIs, and which if included, At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation would distort the materiality calculation year on year.
process and carried out analytical procedures and other These normalising items are outlined in notes 3 and 4 to the procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no financial statements.
significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $10 million 2013: $10 million, as well as differences below The Group audit team follows a programme of regular that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on physical meetings with components that has been designed qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee so that the Group Audit Partner or another senior member of on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the the Group audit team meet with local management and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
component audit team of the most significant components being those components we consider to be the most An overview of the scope of our audit complex, with the highest risk of material misstatement, at In assessing our Group audit scope we continued to build least once every two years, with the remaining components upon our understanding of the Group and its environment, subject to full scope audits being conducted at least once including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks every three years.
of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on our continuing assessment, we focused our Group audit For all components, whether physical meetings with the scope primarily on the audit work at 51 Group components component audit team take place during the year or not, we 2013: 69 Group components utilising 20 component audit include the component audit team in our team briefings and teams 2013: 29 component audit teams in 18 countries communications, discuss and direct their risk assessment, 2013: 22 countries : review and challenge the findings from their work including 36 of these components were subject to a full audit the audit procedures to respond to significant risks and 2013: 54 components : and hold meetings throughout the audit to discuss significant matters arising.
15 were subject to audit procedures on specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations 2013: 15 components.
116 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Matters on which we are required to report Other matters byexception In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Adequacy of explanations received and accountingrecords Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations Respective responsibilities of Directors we require for our audit: or andauditor proper accounting records have not been kept by the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation have not been received from branches not visited by us: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements are not in agreement with the and express an opinion on the financial statements in accounting records and returns.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Corporate Governance Statement Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report professional standards review team and independent arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the AnnualReport This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Under International Standards on Auditing UK and a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken information in the Annual Report is: so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors materially inconsistent with the information in the report and or those further matters we have expressly audited financial statements: or agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other in the course of performing our audit: or than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
117 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Matthew Sheerin, ACA CA AUS for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor London, UK 17 March 2015 118 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Consolidated statement of income loss For the year ended 31 December 2014 2013 1 US$m Notes 2014 Restated Revenue 221,073 232,694 Cost of goods sold 214,344 227,145 Selling and administrative expenses 1,304 1,206 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 10 638 846 Gain loss on sale of investments 3 715 40 Other expense net 4 1,073 11,488 Dividend income 19 39 Interest income 253 393 Interest expense 1,724 1,781 Income loss before income taxes 4,253 7,688 Income tax expense 6 1,809 254 Income loss for the year 2,444 7,942 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 136 104 Equity holders 2,308 8,046 Earnings loss per share: Basic US$ 17 0.18 0.73 Diluted US$ 17 0.18 0.73 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the revised previously reported fair values associated with the Xstrata acquisition made in 2013 see note 25, and therefore do not correspond to the consolidated statement of income loss for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
