Independent Auditors report to the members of Cobham plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion What we have audited In our opinion, Cobham plcs Group Financial Statements Cobham plcs financial statements comprise: the financial statements : The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: year then ended: The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and then ended: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of The Notes to the Group Financial Statements, which include a summary the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality: Overall Group materiality: 13m which represents 5% of underlying profit before taxation.
Materiality Audit scope: We conducted audit work in five countries covering 36 reporting units.
We paid particular attention to the material Aeroflex acquisition which took place in the year: Taken together, the reporting units where we performed our audit work accounted for 76% of Group revenues and 73% of Group underlying profit before taxation.
Audit scope Areas of focus: Revenue and profit recognition on contracts: Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment: Accounting for the Aeroflex acquisition: Inventory obsolescence provisions: Areas of Focus Accounting for uncertain tax positions: and Business restructuring costs.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue and profit recognition on contracts Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report and page 81 note 1, Accounting We tested the recognition of revenue transactions close to the period policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty contract risk end to establish whether they were recorded in the correct period.
This included agreement to signed goods despatch notes or authorised milestone documentation, with customer acceptance where appropriate.
For revenue from the sale of goods, we focused on cut-off around No material misstatements were identified.
the year end because material revenue transactions can occur close to that date.
We assessed the basis of profit recognition on the Groups significant contracts, together with whether it is appropriate to account for them as separate or linked The Group also has a number of significant contracts which span more than contracts.
We evaluated the accounting in the context of the Group accounting one accounting period.
In particular, we focused on complex development policies and contract terms.
We found the accounting, in all material respects, and production contracts on aerial refuelling aircraft including KC-46, KC-390, to be in accordance with the policies and contract terms.
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations We examined the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete, challenging and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution the reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence such as purchase orders is uncertain.
Costs incurred can significantly exceed amounts estimated at for material or subcontractor costs and engineering estimates for labour hours.
inception as a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally We found the assumptions to be supported by the evidence we examined.
For these contracts, we focused on: The recognition of significant revenue milestones which often involve We agreed total contracted revenue to the original signed customer contracts judgement surrounding the achievement of those milestones: and approved change orders.
We evaluated the reasonableness of estimated The amount of revenue assumed as recoverable from customer claims revenue for customer claims submitted to recover additional costs incurred, which are subject to commercial negotiation: including considering correspondence with the customer and legal advice Whether contracts with the same customer should be accounted for as received where appropriate.
separate or linked: Whether the profit recognised on revenue in the year is appropriate: and We assessed the contract loss provisions recorded through a combination Whether associated assets held on the balance sheet work in progress of the procedures above in respect of the overall margin anticipated on the and accrued income are recoverable or whether a contract loss provision contract and validating that fixed overheads had been appropriately excluded.
No material misstatements were identified.
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessments Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 81 note 1, Accounting We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts and tested the underlying policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty impairment value in use calculations.
We compared the Directors forecast to the latest Board of goodwill and pages 93 to 94 note 10, Intangible assets.
approved five year strategic plan and no inconsistencies were noted.
Management conduct an annual impairment test of goodwill balances and We challenged: intangibles are reviewed whenever there is an indicator that an asset may be The Directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts impaired.
The Group has goodwill of 1,220m and intangibles of 777m on its by comparing them to economic forecasts: and Balance Sheet.
Of this, the majority relates to businesses that have substantial The discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and headroom through a combination of growth since acquisition and the comparable organisations.
amortisation of intangibles acquired which has reduced the carrying value being considered for impairment.
The risk that we focused on in the audit was whether No material inconsistencies were identified between these specific assumptions the remaining businesses that have less substantial headroom could be impaired.
In particular, following the goodwill impairment charge recognised in 2013, We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions above to ascertain we focused on the estimated values in use of the Tactical Communications and the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively Surveillance TCS businesses to assess whether the remaining goodwill balance would be required for goodwill or intangibles to be impaired.
In particular this of 45m is recoverable.
As TCS was written down to its recoverable value in 2013, focused on the growth rates assumed in the first five years of the cash flow there is now minimal headroom such that any reduction in the future estimated forecasts and included a comparison between the 2015 forecast cash flow cash flows could result in further impairment.
For TCS, the key assumption we focused on was the anticipated recovery of sales to the US market the speed at which it would return to the pre-recession levels.
We also considered the movement between the 2014 actual results and the forecast 2015 cash flows and we obtained explanations for the movements and agreed to supporting documentation, such as the closing order book.
No material issues were identified in this respect.
com Cobham plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors report to the members of Cobham plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the Aeroflex acquisition Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 81 note 1, Accounting We tested the methodology and mechanics of the underlying models used to policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty business calculate the acquisition related balances, including intangible assets and other fair combinations and pages 113 to 114 note 28, Business combinations.
value adjustments to assets and liabilities acquired.
This included a comparison of the forecasts used in these calculations to the projections used by the Board The Group completed the acquisition of Aeroflex in September 2014 at a before approving the acquisition.
No material inconsistencies were identified.
The cost of the acquisition is accounted for by determining the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible assets, We have utilised our industry knowledge to compare the intangibles assets with the balance being allocated to goodwill.
This acquisition resulted in identified by management and consider whether there were any other types the recognition of goodwill of 387m and intangible assets of 517m in of intangibles we would expect to see.
We did not identify any material omissions.
The fair values of net assets acquired are provisional and subject to potential adjustment We examined the key assumptions used in the calculation of the value allocated to intangible assets including cash flow forecasts and discount rates, challenging The Directors determined that there were five separate business streams the reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence.
The main assumptions acquired, valuing each separately and then allocating the purchase price challenged were: between them.
Discount rate we calculated our own independent rate using both internal rate of return and Capital Asset Pricing Model CAPM methodologies and The process of determining the value of intangible assets requires the use found that managements rate was within an acceptable range: of multiple estimates.
The risk we focused on during the audit is whether Technology rates we assessed managements rate against independent the valuation of the intangible assets was misstated.
expectations based on the margins in each business and the relevant In particular, we focused on: PVspend with no material differences identified: and The allocation of the purchase price between the five business Customer retention and technology decay rates we have determined that streams acquired: assumptions within the model were reasonable through discussions with The opening balance sheet, considering fair value adjustments recognised: operational staff within the businesses.
The identification of intangibles: The cash flow forecasts and discount rate used in the intangibles We assessed the useful economic lives determined by management through valuation process: and comparison to the life cycle of the asset under consideration and benchmarking The useful economic lives used in amortising intangibles.
We visited the three largest sites acquired to perform year end audit procedures, focusing in particular on inventory existence and valuation.
We inspected the predecessor auditor working papers for the five largest components of the acquired group and examined the reconciliation from US GAAP to IFRSs performed by management to provide support for the opening balance sheet.
Based on the information available to date, no material misstatements were identified.
Inventory obsolescence provisions Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 81 note 1, Accounting We assessed the process, methods and assumptions used to develop the policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty inventory provision for slow moving, excess or obsolete items.
This included comparing provisions and page 96 note 14, Inventories.
managements calculations for consistency against those used in the prior year and considering whether there was any indication of management bias such The nature of much of the Groups business means that the products developed as manual overrides to the established methodology.
Manual overrides are can become technically obsolete.
It is also necessary to hold additional spare typically in respect of spares held for the servicing of products on aircraft parts in order to support key customers and programmes should the products which have a long service life.
Where overrides were material, we considered require replacement or servicing.
The Group had gross inventory of 480m and the appropriateness of managements judgement based on historical usage provisions for obsolescence of 48m on its Balance Sheet.
We focused on this area because inventory provisions include subjective We tested the reliability of the underlying data used by management to estimates and are influenced by assumptions concerning future revenue.
calculate the inventory obsolescence provisions, typically an aged inventory In addition, the methods used for this estimate vary between reporting analysis showing last movements, by re-performing the ageing calculation units depending on the nature of the business and inventory.
We also tested the accuracy of the resultant calculation by assessing the calculation criteria and recalculating the provision for a sample of products.
com 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for uncertain tax positions Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 81 note 1, Accounting We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and, where policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty taxation.
appropriate, read communications from taxation authorities on open tax enquiries.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a We assessed the adequacy of the Directors taxation provisions by considering number of jurisdictions.
The Group has a number of open tax enquiries and factors such as the risk profile of each matter and whether the provision addresses has recognised provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of possible penalties and interest.
We met with senior management and challenged which is a highly judgemental area.
Where tax positions are not settled with the judgements and evaluated the appropriateness of the provisions made.
the tax authorities, the Directors take into account precedent and the advice of experts.
We formed our own views on the key judgements with respect to open tax positions and found the judgements made by management were reasonable.
Business restructuring costs Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 87 note 2, Underlying We tested the presentation of the business restructuring costs as non-underlying measures.
by assessing whether the classification was in line with the Groups accounting policy on such items on page 82 of the financial statements.
This included testing The financial statements include business restructuring costs of 52m which the costs incurred to supporting evidence such as external purchase invoices and are disclosed as non-underlying and are excluded from underlying operating redundancy agreements.
We also assessed the appropriateness of this policy and profit.
We focused on this area because IFRSs do not define which items no material issues were identified.
may be excluded from underlying operating profit and it therefore requires judgement around the justification for such exclusion.
Consistency in identifying For reporting units which were in the process of integrating at the year end, and disclosing items to be excluded from underlying operating profit is important we tested the associated closure costs to supporting evidence.
Redundancy to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
provisions were assessed against communications with employees and payroll data.
Onerous lease provisions were compared to rentals payable under the In addition, for reporting units where closure and integration had been original lease agreements.
announced by the year end, such as the closure of Lowell within Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions, we focused on the provisions and asset write downs recognised to ensure that they were complete and not misstated.
How we tailored the audit scope Where subsidiary audit teams performed work at the reporting unit level We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work on behalf of the Group team, this work was performed to lower materiality to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into levels appropriate to the individual units.
These materiality levels ranged account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and from 0.7m to 5m.
controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Materiality The Group is structured along four reported Sectors, being Advanced Electronic The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
Solutions, Aviation Services, Communications and Connectivity, and Mission We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 75 reporting units qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit within these Sectors, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate functions.
Accordingly, of the Groups 75 reporting units, we identified 17 which, the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality to their size, their risk characteristics or because some are covered on a rotational for the financial statements as a whole as follows: basis over a two or three year cycle.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances Overall Group materiality 13m 2013: 14m.
and transactions typically including at least revenue and inventory were performed at a further 19 reporting units.
Audit procedures were performed at all How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before taxation.
principal manufacturing locations, all significant Aviation Services reporting units Rationale for benchmark Underlying profit before taxation is defined in and at the three largest components of the Aeroflex acquisition in the year.
applied the Annual Report on page 82.
We believe that underlying profit before taxation represents an The reporting units in scope covered 73% of the Groups underlying profit appropriate metric for assessing the performance before taxation and 76% of the Groups revenue.
This, together with additional of the Group and provides us with a consistent procedures performed at Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our year on year basis for determining materiality.
opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
For reporting units which were It is the amount reported by management both not in scope, we performed a high level risk analytic on each to understand key internally and externally to the market.
We also balances and transactions in the year and performed additional procedures on considered our overall Group materiality in the any unusual balances identified.
context of the Groups revenue, noting that it represents less than 0.8%.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Group engagement team, or subsidiary audit teams from other PwC network misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5m 2013: 0.5m firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted subsidiary audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed reporting for qualitative reasons.
to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained as a basis for Going concern our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
This included attending Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, the audit close meetings at which the outcome of each subsidiary audit was set out on page 33, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report discussed and visiting a number of larger subsidiary audit teams during their having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the fieldwork including the two key reporting units with the aerial refuelling Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial development and production contracts.
statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
com Cobham plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors report to the members of Cobham plc basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that Our responsibilities and those of the Directors the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements Other required reporting in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Consistency of other information Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Companies Act 2006 opinions for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 In our opinion: of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it is consistent with the financial statements: and may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 46 to 55 with respect to internal control and risk What an audit of financial statements involves management systems and about share capital structures is consistent An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures with the financial statements.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused ISAs UK and Ireland reporting by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Materially inconsistent with the information in the exceptions to Directors: and audited financial statements: or report arising from The overall presentation of the financial statements.
Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially this responsibility.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors in the course of performing our audit: or judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and Otherwise misleading.
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine The statement given by the Directors on page 46, in We have no information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate exceptions to consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the report arising from We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and this responsibility.
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our AnnualReport to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially performing our audit.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any The section of the Annual Report on page 53, as required We have no apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the exceptions to implications for our report.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters report arising from communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of Adequacy of information and explanations received Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Pauline Campbell not made.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate governance statement Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in London our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared 4 March 2015 by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
com 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
