Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cobham plc Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our In our opinion, Cobham plcs Parent Company Financial Statements opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are the financial statements : not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014: Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out Companies Act 2006. on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What we have audited Cobham plcs financial statements comprise: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements The Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards The Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards then ended: and for Auditors.
The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may and are identified as audited.
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation What an audit of financial statements involves of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland.
An audit Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Other required reporting statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Consistency of other information Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the is consistent with the financial statements.
Directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, information in the Annual Report is: and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the our audit: or effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially Adequacy of accounting records and information and incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired explanations received by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the We have not received all the information and explanations we require for implications for our report.
our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, Other matter or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Cobham plc not visited by us: or for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Pauline Campbell Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited for and on behalf of  LLP has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 4 March 2015 Cobham plc www.
com 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
