Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPASS GROUP PLC ONLY TAXATION OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT Refer to page 52 Governance and Directors Report, page 89 accounting policy 1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED and page 132 financial disclosures.
We have audited the financial statements of Compass Group PLC for the The risk: Provisions for direct and indirect tax contingencies require year ended 30 September 2014 which comprise the consolidated income the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the risks and exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental areas that consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the consolidated cash our audit is concentrated on due to the Group operating in a number flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other accounting policies and the related notes.
In our opinion: international tax legislation, as well as the time taken for tax matters the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the to be agreed with the tax authorities.
Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2014 Our response: In this area our audit procedures for direct and indirect and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: taxes included, among others, the use of internal tax specialists to the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as using our knowledge and experience of the application of international adopted by the European Union: and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts, and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared assessing whether the approach applied by the Group is supported in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and by custom and practice in the industry.
We have examined the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the calculations prepared by the directors and validated that they are requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group supported by appropriate underlying data, and that the judgements financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
applied are reasonable considering the maximum potential exposure and the likelihood of a payment being required.
We have inspected 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT correspondence with relevant tax authorities to identify tax risk areas In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the and assessed third party tax advice received to ascertain whether it risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit was reasonable to rely on conclusions drawn in the advice.
Transfer were as follows: pricing documentation was critically assessed to determine whether the tax positions taken by the Group were reasonable.
We also VALUATION OF GOODWILL considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax Refer to page 52 Governance and Directors Report, page 89 accounting policy and uncertain tax positions.
3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW The risk: The Groups balance sheet includes a significant UK goodwill OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT balance relating to historical acquisitions.
The risk is that the The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at aggregated book value of the goodwill in the UK exceeds its 60.0 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark recoverable amount and therefore should be written down in value.
of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 5%.
This is due to changes in the discount rate applied and changes in long term growth expectations.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of identified misstatements exceeding 1.8 million, in addition to other the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental identified misstatements below that threshold where in aggregate the areas that our audit is concentrated on.
effect on individual financial statement captions is over 1.8 million Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, or which warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
testing of the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts Of the Groups reporting components, we subjected the key reporting are based and the principles and integrity of the UKs discounted component in the US and 42 other components to audits for Group cash flow model.
We evaluated the assumptions and methodologies reporting purposes.
The components within the scope of our work used by the UK, in particular those relating to the forecast revenue accounted for 95% of the Groups revenue, 95% of the Groups profit growth and working capital, including assessing the reasonableness before tax, and 95% of the Groups total assets.
of the forecast revenue growth against historical growth rates.
We compared the UKs assumptions to externally derived data as The Group audit team approved the component materialities which well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as projected ranged from 0.1 million to 46.0 million having regard to the mix economic growth and discount rates, as well as performing a sensitivity of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
We also assessed the adequacy of the The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the Groups disclosures in respect of goodwill by reference to relevant significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks described accounting standards.
above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team visited the US key reporting component and a further 18 locations covering 87% of Group revenue.
Telephone meetings were also held with these component auditors and all other components that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPASS GROUP PLC ONLY 4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2006 IS UNMODIFIED As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement In our opinion: set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors www.
This report is made solely to the Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated 5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION into this Report as if set out in full and should be read to provide Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based an understanding of the purpose of this Report, the work we have on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they ANTHONY SYKES consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as Senior Statutory Auditor a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor performance, business model and strategy: or Chartered Accountants the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
26 November 2014 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 49 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 80
