REPORT OF THE AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK plc Independent auditors report to the members of Cranswick plc We have audited the financial statements of Cranswick plc for the year the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in ended 31 March 2014 which comprise the Group income statement, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Group and Company statements of comprehensive income, the parent company financial statements have been properly the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and Company prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European statements of cash flows, the Group and Company statements of Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting Companies Act 2006: and framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. directing the efforts of the engagement team: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and the risk of management override: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone accounting for rebates and similar arrangements: and other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for accounting for acquisitions, including purchase price allocation, our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
recognition of intangible assets and goodwill, and the treatment of contingent consideration and earn-out arrangements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set Our application of materiality out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.7 million the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 2013: 2.4 million which is approximately 5 per cent of pre-tax profit.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment Scope of the audit of the financial statements of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75 per cent assurance that the financial statements are free from material of materiality, namely 2.1 million 2013: 1.8 million.
Our objective misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to undetected and audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been materiality level.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the Committee all audit differences in excess of 139,000, as well as financial and non-financial information in the Report & Accounts to differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements on qualitative grounds.
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by An overview of the scope of our audit us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the the Group financial statements, we selected 13 components which implications for our report.
represent the principal business units within the Group and account for 98 per cent of the Groups revenue and 98 per cent of the Groups Opinion on financial statements profit before tax.
These 13 were subject to a full audit, whilst we also In our opinion the financial statements: selected a further one component that was subject to audits of specific account balances.
A further two components were subject to review give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the procedures.
parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 64 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to Matters on which we are required to report confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the by exception Group financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: The audit work at the 13 locations subject to a full scope audit and the Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in one location subject to a specific scope audit were executed at levels of our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materiality applicable to each individual entity which were much lower than the Group materiality.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the We performed walkthroughs of revenue processes and carried course of performing our audit: or out a combination of controls testing, substantive cut-off testing, is otherwise misleading.
journal entry testing and substantive analytical review procedures to assess the appropriateness of revenue recognition.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified We performed walkthroughs of the processes for rebates any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and similar arrangements.
We performed substantive audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report of year end over-rider accruals with reference to underlying is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report documentation, and we assessed the completeness of amounts appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the accrued with reference to the Groups customer base.
We also Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
vouched significant payments to supporting evidence of payment.
For acquisitions in the period we obtained and understood sales Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in and purchase agreements to ensure the appropriateness of the our opinion: allocation of the purchase price and the recognition of intangible assets.
For acquisitions that arose in prior periods we tested the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent subsequent measurement of contingent consideration liabilities company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and challenged the accounting treatment to ensure that it was received from branches not visited by us: or appropriate.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Opinion on other matter prescribed agreement with the accounting records and returns: or by the Companies Act 2006 certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are In our opinion: not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has require for our audit: or been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the 2006: and Company.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and the Directors statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement concern: and set out on pages 34 to 37 with respect to internal control and risk the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to management systems in relation to financial reporting processes the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Alistair Denton Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Hull 19 May 2014 Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 65
