Financial Statements Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Report on the Group financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion, Croda International Plcs Group financial statements Overall Group materiality: 11.5m, which the financial statements : represents 5% of profit before tax The Group audit team performed give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 theaudit work in both the US and UK.
December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then Combined with where component ended: teams perform full scope audits, our have been properly prepared in accordance with International Group audit covered 73.4% of Group Materiality Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European revenues and 83.6% of Group profit Union: and before tax have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the For other significant parts of the Group, Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
which are audited by component Audit scope auditors, we were heavily involved at all What we have audited stages of their audits by virtue of Croda International Plcs financial statements comprise: numerous communications throughout the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: the process, including the issuance of detailed audit instructions and the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Areas of focus discussion of audit findings, in particular Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: over our areas of focus the Group Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: Valuation of defined benefit pension the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: scheme liability the Group Accounting policies: and Provision for environmental remediation the notes to the financial statements, which include other Taxation explanatory information.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Annual Report & Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than in on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Union.
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
84 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liability We focused our work on the pension plan liabilities in the UK and the US which, Refer to page 55 Audit Committee Report, page 94 together, account for the majority of the balance and, hence, estimation uncertainty.
Group Accounting Policies and pages 108 to 112 notes.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the assumptions they made in The Group has a number of defined benefit pension relation to the valuation of the liabilities in the pension plan as follows: schemes that are in a net deficit position of 126.7m, we agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the which is significant, both in the context of the overall pension liabilities to our internally developed expectations using our own balance sheet and the results of the Group.
The schemes actuarial expertise and compared the assumptions around salary increases in the UK and the US together account for 71.4m and and mortality to national and industry averages: 33.8m of the net deficit, respectively.
we evaluated the sensitivity of the pension scheme deficits to differences The valuation of the pension liability requires significant between our independent judgements and those made by the Directors, levels of judgement and technical expertise in choosing both individually and in aggregate: and appropriate assumptions, a number of which can be volatile.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions we tested the integrity of the actuarial valuations used by the Directors in including salary increases, inflation, discount rates, and preparing the financial statements.
mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of Our testing in this area did not identify any exceptions that required reporting to the liability.
Provision for environmental remediation We audited each of the specific environmental matters that the Directors make Refer to page 55 Audit Committee Report, page 94 us aware of, as there is a risk with each matter that the liability is misstated.
Group Accounting Policies and page 122 notes.
We evaluated and challenged the Directors assumptions, both in terms of the As a consequence of the Groups production of likelihood of the Group being found liable and of any resulting financial chemicals, there are a number of open claims and obligations by: litigation against the Group relating to soil and potential reading publicly available information, correspondence with relevant groundwater contamination on sites, both currently in use stakeholders and other information available to the Directors, both relating to and previously occupied, in the UK and the Americas.
the specific matters identified and in a wider context to assess the Environmental standards and legislation are particular to completeness of the list of claims of which the Directors made us aware: each territory the Group operates in.
As such, reading remediation plans drawn up by the Directors external experts and understanding the potential environmental risks the comparing historic provisions with actual remediation costs incurred during Group is exposed to is often complex.
the year: The provision held for environmental liabilities within the evaluating the competence of the experts that the Directors engage to balance sheet is 13.2m, which relates to a number of assess the likely outcome of the cases against the Group, and the cost of matters.
For each, the Directors, in conjunction with remediation needed, by confirming they are qualified and affiliated with the experts they have engaged, have assessed the likelihood appropriate industry bodies in the respective local territory: of the Group being found liable for any remedial work as well as any associated fines and legal costs.
assessing managements accuracy in estimating exposures for fines and legal costs by comparing historic provisions for cases that have been settled Assessing the likelihood and quantum of any financial with the actual fine legal costs: obligations arising, requires judgement.
There is a risk that the provision could be materially misstated and the discussing all matters with the Groups legal counsel and head of required disclosures insufficient due to the inherent sustainability, and obtaining independent confirmations from the Groups uncertainties and the potentially wide range of outcomes external legal advisors on the progress of each claim: and and timelines in respect of each matter.
discussing all matters arising in Europe and the Americas with local Management performed a detailed assessment of management, and corroborating information received from all parties.
environmental liabilities to ensure that the level of We consider that the Directors have in place a robust process for identifying environmental provision held remains appropriate.
This potential environmental liabilities and have taken into consideration all available assessment has included a most likely outcome being information when forming their judgments as to the likelihood and quantum of allocated by site totalling 13.2m.
any financial liability and the required disclosures in the financial statements.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Financial Statements Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation We evaluated and challenged the Directors assumptions and calculations Refer to page 55 Audit Committee Report, page when calculating and consolidating the tax expense, balances and accruals by: 94 Group Accounting Policies and pages 104 and focusing our work on the US, French and UK tax expense which together 105 notes.
make up 78% of the total tax charge for the year : Due to the large number of tax jurisdictions in which obtaining Group tax computations and testing the deductions and tax rates theGroup operates, the calculation of the Groups applied, focusing in particular on transfer pricing arrangements and taxposition is complex and is subject to scrutiny challenging uncertain tax positions: andchallenge by different tax authorities.
obtaining the Groups latest internal transfer pricing studies and associated Due to the size of the operations in the US, UK and documentation and using our own tax expertise to assess its France, the associated tax positions in these countries reasonableness: are significant, and, as such, an error in the interpretation independently assessing the reasonableness of the specific tax accruals of, often complex, tax regulations, particularly relating based on our experience of similar situations both related and unrelated to totransfer pricing, could lead to a material misstatement the Group: in the tax expense.
The Group also holds a number of specific judgmental reading the latest correspondence between the Group and tax authorities tax accruals which relate to specific transfer pricing risks, and considering any implications this may have on the tax position reported open tax investigations audits and other such matters.
in the Groups financial statements: The estimation of the accrual is dependent on the utilising our experience of similar challenges elsewhere to independently Directors assessment of the outcome of the assess the evidence described above: and outstandingmatters.
comparing the levels of tax expense in other territories with the local statutory tax rates and investigating the basis for any differences.
Our testing did not identify any matters that the Directors had not adequately reflected in their estimate of the tax expense, balances and accruals.
How we tailored the audit scope The audit procedures performed by both the Group team and the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed fullscope audits performed by component auditors, accounted for enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 73.4% of the Groups external revenues and 83.6% of the Groups as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, profit before tax.
the accounting processes and controls, and the chemicals industry in Materiality which the Group operates.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together determined the type of work that needed to be performed by us, as with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
We, as the Group team performed the audit work at the two most significant components the UK and the US.
For other significant Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for parts of the group, which are audited by component auditors, we the financial statements as a whole as follows: were heavily involved in their audits.
We formally issued detailed audit Overall Group materiality 11.5m 2013: 12.5m.
instructions at the planning stage of our audit, which included the How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
We then received formal communications from Rationale for We had regard to profit before tax, a themwith the results of their audit work, and discussed with them benchmark applied generally accepted auditing practice, throughout their fieldwork any significant matters identified to ensure in the absence of indicators that an they were appropriately resolved.
We, as the Group team were also alternative benchmark would be responsible for other head office activities such as the consolidation, appropriate.
financial statement disclosures and share based payments.
86 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them oneyear from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5m 2013: 0.5m of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, concern basis is appropriate.
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be Going concern predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors ability to continue as a going concern.
statement, set out on page 94, in relation to going concern.
We have Other required reporting nothing to report having performed our review.
Consistency of other information As noted in the Directors statement, the directors have concluded Companies Act 2006 opinion that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the thegoing concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
inoperation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors on page 83, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report arising from UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken this responsibility.
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit The section of the Annual Report on pages 53 to 57, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to report arising from Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address this responsibility.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee Adequacy of information and explanations received Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Our responsibilities and those of the Directors our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation this responsibility.
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices responsibility.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate governance statement This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Financial Statements Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit continued What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 24 February 2015 88 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
