CSR in review Strategic report Governance Other information Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CSR plc Opinion on financial statements of CSR plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 26 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 47.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 3 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 81 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identied any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
As part of the audit of the Group, in addition to substantive tests, we also test the design, and operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED RISK TO THE RISK Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets The Group is required to perform an annual impairment review of its Our work focused on an evaluation and challenge of the goodwill of $133.3m, 2013: $131.3m and other intangible assets of assumptions in the impairment review performed for goodwill and $65.0m 2013: $72.3m.
Details of the goodwill impairment review is other intangible assets, described in note 13 to the financial disclosed in notes 3, 4 and 13 to the financial statements.
The key management judgements used in the 2014 impairment This included: review are in relation to: reviewing the calculation of fair value less costs of disposal with the calculation of fair value less costs of disposal, for which reference to third party agreements: and management has used the offer price for the Qualcomm Transaction as disclosed in the Chairmans Statement as an considering the appropriateness of the allocation of the fair value indicator of the fair value: and less costs of disposal to cash generating units based on our understanding of the business and our review of market reports.
the allocation of the recoverable amount to the individual cash We performed alternative allocation methods to verify that these generating units, as explained in note 13 to the financial did not impact the result of the impairment review.
We have considered relevant sensitivities and their impact on the impairment review.
com 83 Independent auditors report to the members of CSR plc continued HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED RISK TO THE RISK Measurement of the inventory provision A provision of $14.7m has been raised in relation to the gross Our testing focused on: inventory balance at 26 December 2014 of $71.1m.
gaining an understanding of the controls over the inventory The inventory provision is based on estimates of future sales business cycle and testing whether these controls operated volumes.
The accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the financial effectively in 2014: statements, and the key judgements are outlined in note 4 to the financial statements.
challenging the appropriateness of the assumptions and estimates used in the calculation of the inventory provision.
We have focused our work on challenging the reasonableness of forecasts, and assessing the historical forecasting accuracy: and performing a retrospective review of the appropriateness of the prior year inventory provision.
Recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets in the US and the Groups exposure to significant tax risks and the level of provisions recognised The calculation of deferred tax assets is based on estimates of future We challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions and profitability for operations that have previously been acquired in the estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating future taxable US, and therefore this is a particularly judgmental area.
The deferred profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets, specically tax position is disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements.
in the US and Israel, assessing the assumptions, through observation of underlying records and external data and considering the supporting forecasts and estimates.
We tested the impact of significant management judgement is also required in determining past restructuring activities in different jurisdictions to assess the the level of provisions raised against uncertain tax positions.
completeness of provisions and taxation balances recorded.
Revenue recognition We have identied the timing of revenue recognition, particularly cut We focused our work on: off at the period end date and recognition in accordance with the appropriate terms and conditions of sale.
testing the controls in place to verify revenue recognition is appropriate, including the timing of revenue recognition: The Group utilises third parties to manufacture and distribute its products, therefore the timing of recognition of revenue is reliant reviewing significant contracts entered in to during the year to upon information provided by these third parties.
The accounting determine whether any had unusual terms which would impact policy for revenue is outlined in note 3. revenue recognition: and testing sales arising from chip sales and in relation to royalties earned in the period before and after year end to assess whether the revenue had been recorded in the correct period.
Our risk assessment process continues throughout the audit and, as a result, last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: Accounting for ongoing litigation matters.
As there are no significant ongoing cases see note 26 where these are described this is no longer considered to be material to the Group financial statements.
The remaining risks were assessed as continuing risks from our audit of the previous years financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 63.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $5.0 million 2013: $7.5 million, which is below 5% 2013: 7.5% of underlying pre-tax profit, which is a key measure utilised by analysts as described in the Annual Report on page 144, and below 0.8% 2013: 1.2% of equity.
We have changed the percentage applied to align more closely with comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.10 million 2013: $0.15 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
84 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Other information Financial statements An overview of the scope of our audit Our global Group audit scope was determined by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope on the UK head ofce in Cambridge.
Whilst the Groups operations are worldwide, there is sufficient oversight and centralisation of the finance and management functions to allow us to complete full audit procedures from Cambridge on entities and balances which account for 100% of Group revenue, and 90% of current assets.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
com 85 Independent auditors report to the members of CSR plc continued Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kate J Houldsworth FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 4 March 2015 86 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
