Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements of Afren plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and Company statement of changes in equity, the Group and Company cash flow statements and the related notes 1.0 to 6.15.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Emphasis of matter Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on pages 76 to 78 in respect of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As described in note 1.3 to the financial statements and the going concern section of the Directors Report, following the significant decline in oil prices prior to year end and their continued low level, the Group undertook a review of the Groups capital structure, liquidity and funding requirements which demonstrated that the Group had insufficient funding to satisfy working capital requirements and forecast debt repayments.
To address this matter, the Group has put in place a Refinancing and Recapitalisation plan.
To date under the Refinancing plan, the Group has secured US$200 million of interim funding through new private placement PPN notes, and agreed the deferral of payments due on certain of its loan facilities.
The US$200 million is to be held in escrow to be available to the Group subject to certain constraints and conditions.
On completion of the proposed Recapitalisation expected in July 2015, which is subject to various lender, shareholder and court approvals, a further US$55 million to US$105 million of net proceeds are expected to be received after repayment of the PPN, in addition to the potential proceeds of an equity offering of up to US$75 million and the restructuring of the Groups debt.
The Directors expect that the Recapitalisation will obtain the necessary approvals and consents in order to complete in July 2015.
The going concern section of the Directors report provides more information about the Refinancing and Recapitalisation plan, and about the Groups financial position assuming the Recapitalisation completes, and if the Recapitalisation does not complete.
Whilst we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate, these conditions indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may give rise to significant doubt over the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
We describe below how the scope of our audit has responded to this risk.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Going concern We have challenged the key assumptions underpinning managements going Following the significant decline in the oil price prior to year end, concern assessment and forecast cash flows for the next 12 months by: the Group has revised downwards its forecasts for both earnings and reviewing and challenging managements going concern paper, cash flow and anticipates that in the absence of successful completion and the accompanying cash flow and banking covenant compliance of the planned recapitalisation, described on page 77, it will breach forecasts for the going concern period.
This included stress tests for covenants on its loan facilities and senior notes and be unable to make a range of reasonably possible scenarios: repayments of those facilities as they fall due.
comparing the oil price assumptions used in forecasts to external As set out in note 1.3 to the financial statements and the Directors forecasts: report on pages 76 to 78, the Directors have concluded that there is agreeing the terms of the Groups committed debt facilities material uncertainty as to whether the Group can continue as a going to supporting documentation: concern.
This matter is described further in the Emphasis of matter reviewing and understanding managements refinancing plans Going concern section above.
and the uncertainties relating to achieving these: As a result, going concern is considered to be a significant risk.
evaluating whether the refinancing plans appear sufficient to address the Groups needs in the context of its forecasts: and considering whether the disclosures relating to going concern in the financial statements are balanced, proportionate and clear.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 Independent auditors report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk In response to the unauthorised payments, we have inspected all reports Management override of controls, including unauthorised issued by Afrens legal advisors and held several discussions with the payments, related party transaction, Directors advisors regarding their findings.
We were assisted in this work by forensic remuneration and the prior year restatement accounting experts from within Deloitte.
We considered whether the The risk of management override of controls was heightened during Groups response to these circumstances as a whole was likely to have the year following the discovery of US$45 million of unauthorised addressed the risk of financial statement misstatement.
payments made for the benefit of certain Directors and other selected employees, as explained in further detail on page 11.
We assessed whether the prior year restatement made in relation to one of the transactions was appropriate and justified, taking into As a consequence, there is a risk that further unauthorised payments account the results of investigations and other advice received by the or benefits in kind to Directors have not been identified or disclosed.
Group, and challenged whether any further restatement was required.
The Group engaged legal advisors to undertake an investigation into We also considered whether the unauthorised payments made to three transactions connected to the unauthorised payments, and to Directors relating to this transaction and subsequent partial recovery identify any further suspicious or potentially fraudulent transactions.
had been appropriately considered and treated.
This included assessing whether there was any evidence of undisclosed Furthermore, we increased our level of enquiries of senior stakeholders related party relationships or transactions.
across the business including Directors and members of senior management Following these investigations, and taking into account all information to identify any additional risks of fraud or indications of related party now available about these transactions, the Group has restated its relationships or transactions that have not been identified and disclosed.
prior year financial statements in relation to one of these transactions, We undertook direct interrogation of the Groups accounting systems as detailed in notes 1.6 and 5.15. to identify potentially fraudulent journal entries, including searching for Related party transactions are disclosed in note 5.11. transactions with known related parties or journals posted by individuals implicated in these matters.
We evaluated managements assessment of indicators of impairment Recoverability of intangible exploration and evaluation for the Groups E&E assets, taking into consideration the impairment E&E assets indicators outlined in IFRS 6 and industry practice.
Exploration and evaluation E&E assets must be carefully assessed for indicators of impairment, as prescribed by IFRS 6 Exploration for Our work included discussion of the latest status and future appraisal and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
plans on each licence with operational staff and Group management.
We gathered evidence such as budgets, field development plans, contracts Assessment of the carrying value of E&E assets requires significant for future drilling and geological and geophysical activities and inspected judgement, including the Groups intention and ability to proceed licences to verify whether the current phase of the Groups licence to with a future work programme for a prospect or licence, the likelihood explore is at, or close to, expiry.
of licence renewal or extension, and the expected or actual success of drilling and geological analysis.
In addition, the Group is facing For assets written down, we have confirmed to supporting evidence significant liquidity challenges and as a result there is a lack of funding the Groups intention to relinquish licences, or seek to terminate spend available for E&E activities.
on these licences going forward.
The Group has reassessed its portfolio in the context of the lower oil For assets carried forward on the basis of managements intention to price environment and the Groups funding constraints and as a result continue E&E activities we have confirmed through inspection of licence has delayed or curtailed a number of projects.
As outlined in note 4.3, terms and discussion with operational staff that either all near term licence the Group has impaired US$839.1 million of E&E assets during the year, commitments have been met, or that there is the intention and financial and a total of US$219.6 million of E&E assets remain on the balance capacity to meet commitments prior to expiry of the licence.
We have also inspected licence terms and supplier contracts for evidence Furthermore, in respect of any commitments or onerous contracts of any undisclosed commitments.
that exist in respect of projects that management no longer intend to pursue, management need to consider whether a provision should be recognised at the balance sheet date or a contingency disclosed.
Details of the Groups policy on E&E assets are disclosed in note 1.6 and 4.3, together with details of impairments to exploration and evaluation assets recorded by the Group in the year.
Commitments and contingent liabilities related to E&E activities are disclosed in notes 3.1 and 4.8.
106 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We undertook a detailed analysis and challenge of the significant Recoverability of development and producing oil and judgements and estimates used in managements impairment tests gas properties within property, plant and equipment, and evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed by management.
together with associated goodwill balances For each reporting period the Group is required to assess whether Our analysis included comparison of oil price assumptions to publicly there are any indications of impairment, such as a decrease in oil price available forecasts, with a particular focus on the appropriateness of the or a downgrade of proved and probable reserves, and, if so, to test US$90 bbl real long term price assumption and discount rate applied by for impairment by measuring the recoverable amount of the asset.
management, and the comparison of future cost estimates against actual Goodwill must be tested for impairment at least annually, irrespective historic cost levels and budgets.
of whether there are indicators of impairment.
We utilised Deloitte valuation specialists to independently develop The Group has recognised impairment charges in the period: being expectations in respect of the specific discount rates used for each project US$932.6 million in respect of Barda Rash, US$273.0 million in respect and compared against those used by management.
of Ebok and US$115.2 million in respect of goodwill.
We inspected reports prepared by independent experts relating to the A total of US$1,367.4 million of oil and gas assets remains on the Groups estimated commercial oil and gas reserves, discussed their work balance sheet within Property, Plant and Equipment at 31 December and findings with them, and checked the consistency of assumptions used 2014.
Goodwill has been fully impaired.
in impairment models to these reserves estimates.
We also investigated the level of challenge applied by these independent experts on future The calculation of recoverable amounts requires estimates concerning levels of capital expenditure and operating costs on each asset.
external factors such as discount rates and future oil prices, as well as assumptions related to oil and gas reserves, operating costs, capital We specifically challenged whether the tax and royalty risks applicable spend, and also judgements about the impact of taxes, regulations to Ebok, explained in the Accounting for deferred and current taxation and uncertain contractual terms applicable to each project.
section below, and other uncertainties relating to the third party participants in the field, as described in note 1.6, had been appropriately Further details of managements process to assess assets for impairment taken into account.
Details of impairment reviews undertaken by the Group during the year and related assumptions are provided in notes 4.4 and 5.13.
Accounting for deferred and current taxation We audited the Groups taxation computations in respect of current and Measurement of the Groups income tax obligations can be judgemental deferred income tax and assessed for consistency with local tax legislation and or complex, reflecting inherent uncertainty in local tax regulation and accounting standards, with the assistance of Deloitte taxation specialists and tax rates and resultant uncertainties over the tax treatment.
We evaluated judgements taken relating to managements provisioning for As described in note 5.16, there have been significant developments tax, by reference to local tax requirements and review of correspondence in respect of Pioneer status at Ebok, under which Afren was granted with tax authorities.
a 5 year tax holiday from commencement of production in June 2011.
Correspondence received in January 2015 from the Nigerian Investment In respect of both Pioneer status and royalty calculations, we analysed Promotion Commission NIPC purported to limit this tax holiday correspondence received to date and reviewed formal legal advice received to a period of 3 years, implying that it had expired on 31 May 2014. by Afren on the interpretation of applicable leglislation in respect of these Deferred taxes must be accounted for in accordance with tax laws matters, including discussing the advice with Afrens legal adviser.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
There is a Furthermore, we assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures included significant judgement in respect of whether Pioneer status had expired in notes 5.16 and 4.8 to the financial statements in respect of Pioneer before 31 December 2014, which materially impacts both the valuation status and royalties.
of Afrens US$348.2 million of deferred tax assets and the valuation of Ebok PP&E of US$683.4 million.
In addition, while Afren have historically submitted royalty calculations using a tranched methodology, this approach was challenged in July 2014 by the Nigerian Department of Petroleum Resources DPR.
The Group disputes this challenge, and considers the methodology used to be consistent with local Marginal Field Operator regulations.
The DPR have asserted that changes should be applied to royalty submissions from July 2014.
Use of a revised methodology would result in a material increase in royalty payments for 2014 of US$24.5 million as disclosed in note 4.8 to the financial statements as well as in future periods.
Details of the Groups policy on deferred and current income tax are disclosed in note 2.3 together with details of income tax recorded by the Group in the year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 90.
While we still consider depletion, depreciation and amortisation and the application of production, cost and profit sharing contractual terms to the Groups production operations to be significant risks, in the current year they are not the areas which have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 Independent auditors report continued Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
There have been a number of unusual circumstances during the year which have resulted in significant reduction in the net assets of the Group, including substantial impairment charges driven by the decline in oil prices and the revisions to the Groups business plan in light of funding constraints.
As a result of these matters, the benchmarks we have previously used in determining materiality, being adjusted profit before tax and net assets, are no longer considered to be meaningful, stable bases.
Given the reduction in financial metrics during the period, we have accordingly reduced materiality to US$17.5 million 2013: US$31.0 million.
This reduced materiality represents approximately 1% 2013: 1% of non-current assets, approximately 2% 2013: 2% of revenue and approximately 11% 2013:10% of normalised profits, as defined in note 2.4 to the financial statements.
In addition, we note that materiality represents approximately 1% of the loss for the year.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of US$350,000 2013: US$600,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
As in the prior year, the audit scope comprised full scope audits of all key business units of the Group, including Nigeria, the Kurdistan region of Iraq and East Africa operations together with the head office function in London.
These locations account for all of the Groups net assets, revenue and loss before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at each individual business unit was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from US$8.8 million to US$15.0 million.
Component auditors were involved in the audit of the Nigerian component as the majority of developed and producing oil and gas assets are located there and in-depth knowledge of local legislation and tax regulations is required.
We included the component audit partner in our team briefing, discussed their risk assessment and reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
A member of the Group team visited the Nigerian component during the fieldwork stage of the component audit.
While the Senior Statutory Auditor planned to visit Nigeria during the later audit concluding phase, due to security concerns and based on travel advice at the time, this visit did not take place.
Instead, there was regular interaction and review throughout the audit through correspondence, telephone and other electronic media, including participation in local closing meetings via video conference.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
108 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Bevan Whitehead ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 30 April 2015 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109
