IndependenT audITors reporT To The members of daIry CresT Group plc our opinions and conclusion arising from our audit Ernst & Young LLP valuation specialist in assessing the our opinion on the financial statements appropriateness of property values and risk adjusted discount rates.
We have audited the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc We challenged managements sensitivity analysis particularly in relation to the Dairies CGU which has limited headroom above for the year ended 31 March 2014 which comprise the Consolidated carrying value.
Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the accounting for exceptional items Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in We challenged the classification of items as exceptional to ensure Equity, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash that the nature of each item is consistent with the criteria set out in Flows and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting the groups accounting policy as described in note in the Accounting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Policies section of the financial statements and assessed the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as consistency in the application of the exceptional classification with adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent previous accounting periods.
We performed tests of transactions to company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the audit both the amount and related disclosure for all exceptional provisions of the Companies Act 2006. items deemed material.
In our opinion: determination of reportable segments the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Following a significant business restructure, we challenged groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 managements revision of the Groups reportable segments to a and of the groups profit for the year then ended: single Dairy Crest Group reportable segment, in accordance with the group financial statements have been properly prepared in the requirements of IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
We evaluated accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: changes in the day to day management of the Groups operations, the parent company financial statements have been properly the mechanism by which forecasts were completed during the year prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European and the nature and extent of the revised management information Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the provided to the Dairy Crest Group plc board the Groups Chief Companies Act 2006: and Operating Decision Maker and on which it made its resource the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with allocation decisions.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of IAS regulation.
our application of materiality Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy.
our assessment of risks of material misstatement For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements We identified the following risks that have had the greatest are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could engagement team: reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the Accounting for promotional accruals, including the impact on users of the financial statements.
As we develop our audit strategy, revenue recognition: we determine materiality at the overall financial statement level and Assessing the carrying value of non-current assets: at the individual account level.
Performance materiality is the The treatment of exceptional items reported: and application of materiality at the individual account level.
Determination of reportable segments in accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
Planning the audit solely to detect individually material misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually our response to these risks immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to be The principle ways in which we responded to the risks identified materially misstated, and leaves no margin for possible undetected above included: misstatements.
accounting for promotional accruals, including the impact of When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a revenue recognition magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be We tested the key controls to ensure the recognition of promotional material for the financial statements as a whole.
accruals was appropriate and applied in line with managements policies.
We performed analytical procedures to evaluate and We determined materiality for the group to be 3.0 million 2013: corroborate the key inputs in calculating the level of promotional 2.8 million, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax, and accruals to be recognised at 31 March 2014.
We challenged performance materiality to be 2.25 million 2013: 2.1 million.
This managements calculation based on current market trends, the provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk history of claims that have been made from customers, and the level assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of of claims subsequent to the year-end as compared to the level of the material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent balance.
assessing the carrying value of non-current assets We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the We challenged managements assumptions used in its impairment Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2013: 0.2 model for goodwill, intangible and fixed assets across the Groups million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, four cash generating units CGUs as set out in notes 10 and 11.
In warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
particular, we focused on the appropriateness of the methodology applied and we challenged management on cash flow forecasts, in particular cash inflows from property sales, margin growth assumptions and the allocation of central costs across CGUs.
We obtained corroborative evidence where appropriate and involved Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 67 The numbers InDEPEnDEnT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF DAIRY CREST GROUP plc COnTInUED an overview of the scope of our audit The scope of our report All Dairy Crest Group plc operations are now based in the UK, with This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in 96% of revenues and 100% of profit before tax reported through the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Dairy Crest Limited statutory entity, on which we performed a full Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the scope audit.
The risk associated to other statutory entities within the companys members those matters we are required to state to them group was considered and no other entities were deemed to be in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent significant on the grounds of size.
Specific procedures were permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to performed on Philpot Dairy Products given the complex accounting anyone other than the company and the companys members as a relating to the financial instruments that are held in this entity.
All body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have audit worked performed for the purposes of the Group audit was formed.
undertaken by the Group audit team.
The scope of our audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies act disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 2006 assurance that the financial statements are free from material In our opinion: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have 2006: and been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Report for the financial year for which the group financial directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the statements.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently matters on which we are required to report by exception materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or under the Isas uK and Ireland, we are required to report to inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial The respective responsibilities of directors and auditor statements: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Responsibilities on page 66, the directors are responsible for the with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied performing our audit: or that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Is otherwise misleading.
express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual alison duncan Senior Statutory Auditor report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, to the audit committee which we consider should have been Statutory Auditor disclosed.
London under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to 21 May 2014 you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dairy Crest Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not the parent company financial statements and the part of the involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial agreement with the accounting records and returns: or statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other not made: or jurisdictions.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
under the Listing rules we are required to review: The directors statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going concern: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specific for our review.
