F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S FINANCIAL ST ATEMENTS I N INDEP D EP EN EDNEN DENT T A U D AU I T DITORS O R S R EP OREPORT R T T O T H TO E M TH EM E BER MEMBERS S OF O F D EBEN H A M S P L C G R O U P DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Debenhams plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 August 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Debenhams plcs financial statements comprise: The consolidated balance sheet as at 30 August 2014: The consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: The consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report and accounts the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 5.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
The Group is structured into two operating segments UK and International: We conducted our audit work on both operating segments from the UK with the exception of the Danish business Magasin du Nord, which is in the International operating segment, where the audit was performed in Denmark: Our audit work covered both operating segments and accounted for 100% of group revenue and 100% of group profit before tax.
Our areas of focus: Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to manual adjustments posted to revenue and the cut-off of wholesale invoicing to franchises: Inventory valuation using the retail method and stock provisioning for out of season inventory.
Goodwill and store assets impairment assessment: Defined benefit pension plan net liability.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 84 84 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
The first two areas of focus are significant risks and the second two are other risks.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to manual For both retail and franchise revenue we examined journal adjustments posted to revenue and the cut-off of entries and consolidation adjustments to identify unusual or wholesale invoicing to franchises.
irregular items and tested such items by agreeing details to supporting documentation.
See note 2 to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of the related revenue recognition accounting In addition, for franchise revenue, we tested a sample of policy.
sales back to supporting documentation such as cash receipts or purchase orders and goods despatched notes ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in to check the occurrence and the recording of revenue in the revenue recognition because of the pressure management correct period.
We also assessed the monthly level of sales may feel to achieve the planned results.
to franchises to identify any unusual patterns around the year end, and tested any such items by agreeing details The Groups revenue principally relates to retail trading and to supporting documentation.
wholesale trading with franchise partners.
Retail revenue comprises high volume, low value transactions where the principal risk of fraud comes from journals and adjustments posted into revenue and therefore not subject to the main controls over revenue to cash reconciliations.
The principal risks of fraud for franchise sales come from journals and adjustments posted into franchise sales as well as the risk of wholesale invoicing to franchises in the incorrect period artificially inflating revenue for the current year.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 85 85 F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I N INDEPENDENT D EP EN D EN T A U D AUDITORS I T O R S R EP OREPORT R T T O T H TO E M TH EM E BER MEMBERS S OF O F D EBEN H A M S P L C G R O U P C O N T I N U ED DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus Inventory valuation using the retail method and stock We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal provisioning for out of season inventory controls over the inventory valuation process.
Refer to pages 52 and 53 Audit Committee report and note As inventory is valued using the retail method we performed 5 to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of a number of specific tests of the operating effectiveness of the critical accounting estimates and judgements related to controls and detailed substantive tests over the inputs into the valuation of inventory.
the inventory valuation calculations including: The valuation of inventory in the UK and Ireland is Testing the controls over the sales price of inventory: determined using the retail method.
This is an industry Assessing the margin rate applied to the sales price to specific accounting method used to derive a weighted identify any unusual margins, and testing any such items average product cost.
This method contains significant by agreeing details to supporting documentation: assumptions, which can vary between retail entities.
The methodology is also impacted by the timing of processing Testing the margin rate applied to the sales price to markdowns which could significantly affect gross margin.
derive the cost of inventory: Checking the purchase price of inventory used within cost The ongoing economic situation within the retail sector of sales to a sample of supplier invoices: and continues to create competition on the high street.
This could put pressure on the level of out of season stock Checking other cost adjustments for example designer identified for markdown within the Group and on the year royalties applied to the inventory margin back to end stock provisions markdowns.
As such there is a risk supporting documentation.
that the realisable value of stock will be lower than its We also assessed the level of out of season inventory at the recorded cost.
year-end, which included: Testing the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to classifying stock as current, continuity inventory with no season or out of season inventory: and Assessing the spend on mark-downs in the month following the year end and the level of out of season inventory at the end of this period to assess the reasonableness of the judgement involved in the markdown provisions applied to the year end inventory valuation.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 86 86 How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus We tested that the impairment model used by management Goodwill and store asset impairment assessment is mathematically correct.
Goodwill Refer to note 5 to the financial statements for the directors We challenged the directors on the inputs into their disclosures of the critical accounting estimates and impairment assessment calculations, including: judgements related to the goodwill impairment assessment The directors key assumptions for short term growth and note 13 for further details on the impairment test.
rates, by comparing them to historical results and the Ongoing economic pressures on the high street continue to prospects for the stores, business and industry: be considered as a trigger for an impairment assessment of The directors key assumptions for long term growth rates the underlying value of the 819 million goodwill held by the in the forecasts, by comparing them to historical results, Group which relates primarily to the acquisition in December and economic and industry forecasts: and 2003 of the Debenhams Group by Debenhams plc.
The discount rate, by assessing the cost of capital for the Store assets Company and comparable organisations, forming a view Refer to note 14 to the financial statements.
of risk premiums as appropriate.
Ongoing economic pressures on the high street continue to Having challenged these assumptions, we focused further be considered as a trigger for an impairment assessment of discussions with management on stores where there were the underlying value of store assets in particular those stores low profit margins or low headroom in the impairment that have demonstrated lower profitability in recent years.
assessment where we considered the risk of impairment to be greater.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions including the short-term growth rates and discount rates.
We evaluated and tested key assumptions and information Defined benefit pension plans prepared by the actuaries used in the determination of Refer to note 5 for the directors disclosures on the critical pension obligations, including using our specialist accounting estimates and judgements related to the defined knowledge to assess the actuarial calculations.
benefit pension plans and note 23 for detailed disclosures in relation to these plans.
We obtained third party confirmations for the existence of assets and tested the valuation of plan assets.
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans which comprise total pension assets of 748 million and total Both schemes are closed to new entrants: we tested the pension liabilities of 751 million.
The valuation of the accuracy of census data used to calculate the liability at the pension liabilities requires significant levels of judgement date of each triennial valuation by checking details to the and technical expertise in choosing appropriate Groups personnel payroll documentation.
The date of the assumptions.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions last triennial valuation was 31 March 2011 with the results including inflation, discount rates, and mortality can have included in the 31 March 2012 financial statements.
a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into two operating segments being, UK and International.
The International operating segment includes operations in the Republic of Ireland, Denmark, sales to franchises and internet sales made outside of the UK.
For the purposes of our audit of the Group consolidated position, Magasin du Nord is considered as a separate reporting unit.
Whilst, based on its size relative to the Group, Magasin du Nord did not require an audit of its complete financial information, we deemed this the most appropriate method to gain the necessary audit evidence for the financial statements.
The rest of the Group as a whole was subject to an audit of its complete financial information as a result of its size.
All operations were audited from the UK with the exception of Magasin du Nord where we used PwC Denmark, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations, to perform this audit work.
We determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work of PwC Denmark to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole and that involvement included a conference call with PwC Denmark and local management to discuss the findings of the audit.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 87 87 F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I N INDEPENDENT D EP EN D EN T A U D AUDITORS I T O R S R EP OREPORT R T T O T H TO E M TH EM E BER MEMBERS S OF O F D EBEN H A M S P L C G R O U P C O N T I N U ED DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 5.5 million 2013: 7.9 million.
Overall group materiality 5% of profit before tax.
How we determined it We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the Rationale for benchmark applied absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2013: 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 80 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: The information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 44 to 49 with respect to internal control and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Is otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 81, We have no exceptions to report arising from this in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate responsibility.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 51 to 53, as We have no exceptions to report arising from this required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of responsibility.
the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 88 88 Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2014 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 October 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 89 89
