Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 85 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: inDepenDent auDitoRS RepoRt the group financial statements have been properly prepared in indePendent aUditORs accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU : RePORt tO tHe membeRs Of the parent company financial statements have been properly diaGeO plc Only prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with OpINION aND CONClUSIONS aRISINg fROm OUR aUDIT the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the 1. our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2014 set out on pages 88 to 136.
In our opinion: 2. our assessment of risks of material misstatement the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2014 risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our and of the groups profit for the year then ended: audit were as follows: RECOvERabIlITy Of gOODwIll, DISTRIbUTION RIghTS aND bRaND INTaNgIblE aSSETS wITh aN INDEfINITE lIfE Refer to page 61 audit Committee Report and page 108 accounting policies and financial disclosures the risk: These assets future recoverability is dependent on our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among achieving sufficient level of profitability.
The assets are spread across others, the testing of controls designed and operated by the a broad range of markets and consequently forecast cash flows are group relating to the regular update, monitoring, analysis, and judgemental, requiring assumptions to be made relating to differing appropriate approval of impairment model assumptions.
and often complex regulatory and economic environments as well We focused particularly on those assets with a higher risk of as consumer sentiment.
material impairment, most notably the Shui Jing Fang SJF brand These assets are most prone to the risk of impairment in the where an impairment loss was recognised in the year.
For all early years after acquisition as market position and synergies are higher risk assets we challenged the appropriateness of the key established and as distribution networks are extended under the assumptions, including forecast cash flows, long term growth rates and the discount rate by reference to past performance, future groups control, or when there is a significant deterioration in economic conditions or any other external factors.
plans and by performing independent market analysis, and performed sensitivity analysis on the impairment models.
Our assessment was based on our understanding of the commercial prospects of the assets, identification and analysis of changes in assumptions from prior periods, an assessment of the consistency of assumptions, comparison of assumptions with publicly available data, and where relevant the historic accuracy of the groups forecasting.
We considered the appropriateness of disclosures in relation to the SJF impairment and other impairment sensitivities in note 10 to the financial statements.
bUSINESS COmbINaTIONS aND pRESENTaTION Of INvESTmENTS Refer to page 61 audit Committee Report and pages 102 and 106 accounting policies and financial disclosures the risk: The group has a material investment in United Spirits our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, Limited USL.
At 30 June 2014, the group held the largest single the inspection of acquisition agreements to assess the level of shareholding in USL, and achieved significant influence during shareholding and any contractual rights acquired.
the year having increased its investment from 10.04% to 28.78%.
We have critically assessed the factors analysed by the group to On 2 July 2014, following successful completion of a tender offer, understand the extent of influence or control achieved over USL the group acquired a further 26% of USLs share capital.
having acquired 28.78% of the voting rights, including whether the The classification of an investment as an associate or subsidiary group can appoint or approve key management personnel who is dependent not only on the percentage of voting rights acquired, have the ability to direct relevant activities, historical shareholder but also on whether the investor has rights sufficient to give it the voting patterns, and the expected outcome of ongoing litigation practical ability to direct the investee.
Furthermore the tender offer with respect to the shareholding acquired.
achieved final approval on 2 July 2014 and judgement was In respect of the tender offer concluded on 2 July 2014, we required to establish whether the group obtained rights as a result have inspected offer documentation and consulted with the of the tender before that date.
The classification of the investment groups external legal counsel to assess the timing of control as an associate is therefore a key judgemental area.
with respect to the shares acquired.
The group has concluded it did not control USL at 30 June 2014, We have assessed the adequacy of disclosures of the the consequences of which are that the investment is equity transactions and the timing of the assumption of control.
accounted as an associate and the results for the year are included in one line in the income statement and one line in the balance sheet.
Had the group concluded it controlled USL, it would have been consolidated as a subsidiary recognising the individual assets and liabilities on a line by line basis, recognising goodwill and a significant non-controlling interest, as well as a gain on step up to subsidiary.
86 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: inDepenDent auDitoRS RepoRt CONTINgENT lIabIlITIES aND lEgal pROCEEDINgS Refer to page 61 audit Committee Report and page 130 accounting policies and financial disclosures the risk: The group has extensive international operations and in our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, the normal course of business provisions or contingent liabilities challenging the appropriateness of the groups assumptions and may arise from general legal proceedings, guarantees, resulting provision and an assessment of the levels of provisions, government investigations, or environmental issues.
The group having regard to correspondence between the groups external is a defendant in a number of legal, customs and tax proceedings counsel and national revenue and customs authorities.
In particular, these relate to an ongoing We assessed completeness of provisions through review of legal customs dispute in Korea and continuing claims against the group expenses, discussion with the groups internal legal counsel, and in respect of the drug thalidomide.
The amounts involved are monitoring external sources of information such as industry media potentially significant and the application of accounting standards to identify actual and potential non-compliance with laws and to determine the amount, if any, to be provided as a liability is regulations relevant to the group.
In addition we obtained formal inherently subjective.
confirmations from the groups external counsel where appropriate.
We also assessed whether the groups disclosures detailing significant legal proceedings adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the group.
vENEzUElaN fOREIgN ExChaNgE Refer to page 61 audit Committee Report and page 94 accounting information and policies the risk: The Venezuelan Bolivar VEF is subject to strict currency our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, restrictions and is not freely exchangeable.
As at 30 June 2014 a critical assessment of the history of the rates at which the there are multiple official rates of exchange of VEF to US dollars $.
group has been able to convert VEF to $, and of public The disparity between the different rates is significant, ranging announcements regarding the intentions behind launching the from $1 VEF6.3 to VEF50.
Consequently the determination of the Sicad II rate to determine the appropriateness of using Sicad II appropriate rate at which to consolidate the groups Venezuelan when consolidating the groups Venezuelan operations.
operations has a material impact on the group financial We also assessed the adequacy of disclosures in relation to the statements.
The Second Ancillary Foreign Currency Administration change in rate and its financial impact on the group.
System Sicad II, was introduced in March 2014 and has been assessed by the group as being the most appropriate rate to use when consolidating their operations in Venezuela $1 VEF50.
This has resulted in a significant devaluation of Venezuelan net assets and results in the year ended 30 June 2014.
3. our application of materiality and an overview of the scope The majority of the groups operations are on a single instance of our audit platform with common processes and controls.
As a result, a The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was significant element of controls and substantive audit procedures set at 135 million.
This has been determined with reference to a is carried out at the groups shared service centres, and reliance benchmark of group profit before taxation, which we consider to is placed on the results of these procedures by the group auditor, be one of the principal considerations for members of the company key components and other subsidiaries.
in assessing the financial performance of the group.
Materiality Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in key represents 5% of group profit before taxation as disclosed on the components and shared service centres.
These instructions covered face of the income statement.
the significant areas that should be covered by these audits which We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit where relevant and set out the information required to be reported with a value in excess of 7 million, in addition to other audit back to the group audit team.
The group audit team performs the misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted work on valuation of indefinite lived intangible assets and post employment benefits.
They visited key locations in the following reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed over key countries to discuss significant risks and audit strategy: Brazil, UK, USA, reporting components in the following countries: United States Colombia, the Netherlands and Hungary.
The group audit team also of America USA, Nigeria, Kenya, Turkey, Brazil, Hungary, United Kingdom UK and the Netherlands.
In addition, audit procedures Materiality of the Group Financial Statements predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls for group reporting purposes were performed at the Pro t before tax Materiality 2,711m 135m Whole financial groups shared service centres in Hungary, the Philippines, Kenya statements materiality and Colombia.
The coverage achieved by these group procedures is shown in the chart below.
75m Maximum materiality at 10 key components The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality Misstatements reported levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These local 7m to the Audit Committee materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 7 million to 75 million.
Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 87 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: inDepenDent auDitoRS RepoRt group net sales Components profits losses group total assets before taxation 12% 20% 20% 80% 80% 88% Key components and shared Other components service centres visited subsidiaries or associates located in the following countries Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, during the year: Cameroon, China, Denmark, Ghana, India, Ireland, in our opinion: Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Tanzania and Vietnam.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent The remaining 20% of group net sales, 20% of components profit company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been before tax and 12% of total group assets is represented by 202 other received from branches not visited by us: or components, none of which individually represent more than 2% of the parent company financial statements and part of the these measures, and the majority are subject to local statutory audits, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in which are not completed at the date of this report.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law 4.
Separate opinion in relation to iFRSs as issued by the iaSB are not made: or As explained in the accounting policies set out in the group financial statements, the group, in addition to complying with its legal we have not received all the information and explanations we obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS require for our audit.
In our opinion, the group financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
the directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going 5. our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies concern: act 2006 is unmodified the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 56 In our opinion: to 59 relating to the companys compliance with the nine the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act our review: and 2006: and We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are SCOpE Of REpORT aND RESpONSIbIlITIES prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they are required to report by exception give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified Councils website at www.
other information in the annual report that contains a material This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013b, which are incorporated into this report as if In particular, we are required to report to you if: set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the we have identified material inconsistencies between the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors of our opinions.
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable paul Korolkiewicz Senior Statutory auditor and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address Chartered Accountants matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
