Dignity plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 26 December 2014 and of the Groups loss for the 52 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of, and response to, the risk of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the audit engagement team: Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63 Risk Response The accounting for the issue of New Secured Notes and Return of Cash The accounting for the issue We obtained and checked the logic and mathematical accuracy of the 10 per cent test calculation as set out in of the New Secured Notes and IAS 39 prepared by management, which compares the net present values of the cashflows of the New Notes to Return of Cash and specifically the see if they are more than 10 per cent different to the present values of the cashflows of the Old Notes.
This is an judgement made by management indicator of whether the New Notes are substantially different to the Old Notes: that this is an extinguishment of We critically reviewed and assessed managements qualitative comparison of the terms of the old and new debt debt as opposed to a modification and assessed the reasonableness of the judgemental conclusion reached: of the debt as defined in IAS 39.
Where possible we have validated the factual accuracy of the components of managements qualitative This judgement has an impact comparison to underlying documentation supporting their judgement that the transaction is a debt on how existing and incremental extinguishment: costs and debt premiums are We reviewed the disclosures presented by the Group in the Annual Report to ensure that adequate explanation of accounted for either as a charge the nature and basis of the judgement involved are included: and within the Consolidated Income Statement or whether the costs are We have reviewed the transaction costs expensed to the income statement ensuring they are supported by deducted from the New Secured contracts and invoices and appropriately disclosed within the accounts.
Notes in the balance sheet.
AC, AP, CAE The determination of the assumptions used to derive the obligations for the defined benefit pension scheme The actuarial assumptions We understood and challenged managements input into the assumptions underpinning the liability: used to value the defined benefit Using external data we verified the appropriateness of the key actuarial assumptions used by management in pension scheme liabilities are determining the pension obligation under IAS 19 R to ensure their assumptions were appropriate, met the judgemental and sensitive.
Due requirements of IFRS and were in line with market practice: to the significance of the value of This included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and discount the pension obligation, a small rates against external market data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating managements change in assumptions outside expert as required under auditing standards: of the requirements of IAS19 R may result in a material difference We used our pensions specialists to assist us with these procedures: and to amounts reported.
AC, AP, CAE We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with accounting standards.
The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition In particular risks around incorrect We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition: revenue cut-off at year end, the We performed detailed cut-off testing on the provision of funerals and cremations delivered around the period end: inappropriate recording of revenue We performed revenue transaction testing, which included ensuring that the services had been delivered and the for services not delivered, and the transaction has been appropriately recorded in the income statement: risk of inappropriate management override of the amount of revenue We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with expectations from past experience, recorded.
AP managements forecasts and, where possible, external market data: We identified and obtained support for journals generated at head office impacting revenue: We evaluated the controls in the IT systems that support the recording of revenue: and We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with accounting standards.
The risk of fraud and management override We considered the risks inherent in We performed tailored procedures, including analytical procedures and obtaining support for any those areas where manual journals unusual journals identified, sufficient to address the identified risk in respect of subjective areas which we are posted at head office as part considered to be most susceptible to management override.
These areas were considered to be the bad debt of the financial statement close provision, pre-need cancellation provision, dilapidations provision and cost accruals.
Non-consolidation of pre-need trusts and the judgement that trade names have indefinite lives As this is our first year as auditors We obtained managements analysis and supporting information in relation to both critical accounting judgements.
of Dignity we have considered To consider these critical judgements: the specific accounting for In respect of the non-consolidation of the pre-need trusts we confirmed that the provisions of law under which following matters specifically the trusts operate require that the majority of the trustees of each of the trusts are required to be independent of noted within the critical accounting Dignity and that the trustees need to act in the best interest of the trust.
We also confirmed that all monies flow estimates set out in note 1, directly to the trusts which are separate to the Dignity group of companies.
Non-consolidation of pre-need trusts and the judgement that In respect of the judgement that trade names have indefinite lives we considered the nature of the funeral market trade names have indefinite as set out in externally available information, the historical level of performance of trade names and we lives.
AP, CAE corroborated the actions taken by the Group to monitor and maintain the trade names.
We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and enable the user of the accounts to understand the trusts and their relationship with Dignity and the reasons why management are satisfied the trade names have indefinite lives.
These risks are discussed in other areas of the Annual Report as noted by the following key.
AC See Audit Committee report: p. 42 to p. 44.
AP See note 1 Accounting policies: p. 70 to p. 77.
CAE See note 1 Critical accounting estimates: p. 75 to p. 76.
Dignity plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 Our application of materiality We quantify materiality in planning and executing the audit and in evaluating the materiality of misstatements on the financial statements and the effect they have on our audit.
In determining if the financial statements are free from material error, we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
The evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and the consideration of both qualitative and quantitative factors.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.9 million, which is approximately five per cent pre-tax profit after adding back the one-off costs related to the issuance of the New Secured Notes and Return of Cash.
We used pre-tax profits excluding these one-off costs as, in our view, this is the most relevant measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
This provided the basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures, and identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement.
We determined, based on our risk assessment and consideration of the Groups overall control environment, that performance materiality for the Group, as this is a first year audit, should be 50 per cent of planning materiality, namely 1.45 million.
Performance materiality is our audit tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to obtain reasonable assurance that the total uncorrected and undetected audit differences did not exceed our materiality of 2.9 million for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 145,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Group operates from head office and has common financial systems, processes and centralised controls covering all of its operations and individual locations.
The audit of the Group is undertaken by one audit team and the Group audit has been performed on the consolidated financial records to the materiality and performance materiality described above.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Directors statement on corporate governance set out on pages 39 and 40 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 65 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Group: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance report has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Directors statement on corporate governance relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 4 March 2015 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dignity plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
