100 DIPLOMA PLC Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Diploma PLC Opinion on financial statements of Diploma PLC Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state ofthe on page 69 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30September 2014 we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of and of the Groups profit for the year thenended: accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast adopted by the European Union: significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Practice: and thisstatement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the agoing concern.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below remain the The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, same as the prior year end arethose that had the greatest effect on our the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Other audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, efforts of the engagement team.
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the related notes 1 to 29 and the Group Accounting Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context policies.
This also comprises the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds and its related notes a opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial to d and the Parent Company Accounting policies.
The financial reporting statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described below, framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of Goodwill, tangible and We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model, specifically including the cash flow intangible assets projections, cash-generating unit allocation, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates and the sensitivities The key assumptions used in the assessment of the applied.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical trading carrying value of goodwill, tangible and intangible performance, consulting with our valuation specialists who benchmarked assumptions such as the assets are determined with reference to judgemental perpetual growth rate and discount rate to external macro-economic and market data.
factors such as forecast cash flows and the appropriate discount rate.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired by performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising and the adequacy of the disclosures within the financial statements.
Valuation of inventory including appropriateness of We have considered the provision at each business unit level.
We evaluated the recorded provision, judgements applied within the obsolescence provision specifically checking the discontinued dates of those relevant stock lines to assess whether they have been aged correctly and the appropriate provision percentage has been applied.
We have assessed Management judgement is required in determining the completeness of the inventory provisions and making the net realisable value of inventory and challenged managements assumptions with regards to the an assessment of its adequacy, considering the age and completeness of the inventory provisions and made an assessment of its adequacy, considering the volumes relative to expected usage.
age and volumes relative to expected usage.
We also compared the actual sales value of a sample of inventory items to their book value to ascertain that the carrying value of inventories does not exceed their net realisable value.
The recoverability of trade debtors and We have challenged Managements assumptions in calculating the bad debt provision, including appropriateness of the bad debt provision reviewing the ageing of receivables in comparison to previous years, reviewing the level of bad debt Management judgement is required in determining the write-offs in the current year and against the prior year and checking the recoverability of outstanding completeness of the trade receivables provision and debtors through examination of subsequent cash receipts.
making an assessment of its adequacy, considering the expected recoverability of the year end receivables The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 49.
Our application of materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2013: 50,000, as statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We also report to the Audit Committee We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group presentation of the financial statements.
to be 2.5 million 2013: 2.5 million, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax 2013: 5%.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements 101 An overview of the scope of our audit Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks in our opinion, information in the annual report is: of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 7 2013: statements: or 7 locations.
Each of these 7 locations was subject to a full scope audit.
An apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent additional 4 2013: 5 locations were subject to specified audit procedures with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing which address each of the significant balances and significant risks within these our audit: or entities.
Together the work at these locations represents the principal business is otherwise misleading.
units of the Group and accounts for 71% 2013: 79% of the Groups revenues and 78% 2013: 86% of the Groups operating profit.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the The Group audit team has designed and implemented a rotational country Directors Statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced visit programme to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses member of the Group audit team visits these locations and attends close out those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we meetings.
Each year this programme of visits includes the three most significant consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not territories being the US, Canada and UK.
identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Where no visits are carried out the Senior Statutory Auditor or another Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor senior member of the team has held discussions with the lead partner in the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the current year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we have Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements discussed with the component audit team their risk assessment, and reviewed and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
documentation of the findings from their work.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also information of the remaining components not subject to audit or specified comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and In our opinion: independent partner review.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys consistent with the financial statements.
members those matters we are either required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted Matters on which we are required to report by exception by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require Scope of the audit of the financial statements for our audit: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused from branches not visited by us: or by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys accounting records and returns.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Directors remuneration Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies report arising from these matters.
we consider the implications for our report.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 17 November 2014
