Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of Dixons Retail plc.
We assessed the assumptions applied in the spread factors In our opinion, the financial statements: with reference to actual historical levels of claims and we have challenged the appropriateness of these factors to give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the determine whether there is a solid basis for the assumptions Companys affairs as at 30 April 2014 and of the Groups loss used.
We have tested the integrity of the revenue spreading for the year then ended: model and the inputs into the model through recalculation.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Accounting for disposals: The accounting treatment of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the disposals is significant to the accounts following the disposals European Union: and of the PIXmania, Unieuro, and Turkish ElectroWorld have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of businesses which have taken place during the year.
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial We have recomputed the loss on disposal recognised with statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
reference to the relevant agreements and other third party information.
We have assessed the judgements made in The financial statements comprise the consolidated income calculating the loss on disposal, including in relation to statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive provisions and warranties, with reference to historical income and expense, the consolidated and company balance performance and other available information, and we sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, have assessed the presentation of the results as the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity discontinued operations.
and the related notes 1 to 32 and C1 to C17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Non-underlying items: The Group has recorded nonis applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union underlying income and expenditure in respect of one-off and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied items and transactions that are outside of the normal course in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. of trading.
The presentation and consistency of these items is a key judgement.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, in We reviewed the nature of non-underlying items and addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs challenged managements judgements in this area.
We as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied assessed whether the non-underlying items are in line with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards the Groups accounting policy and that it has been applied Board IASB.
consistently with previous accounting periods, including whether the reversal of any items originally recognised as In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs non-underlying are appropriately classified as non-underlying as issued by the IASB.
We agreed the quantification of the non-underlying items to supporting documentation.
We also assessed Going concern whether the disclosures within the financial statements As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the statement contained within the statutory information section of nature of these items.
the directors report that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that we have: Inventory provisioning: Inventory is a significant balance for the Group and there are a number of judgement areas concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis including obsolescence and shrinkage provisioning.
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements We have performed testing of the controls around the is appropriate: and inventory business cycle and have attended a sample not identified any material uncertainties that may cast of inventory counts at a number of stores and distribution significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going centres across the Group which enables us to assess concern.
managements processes for monitoring stock.
We performed audit tests to assess whether inventory is valued However, because not all future events or conditions can be at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
We reviewed, predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups recalculated and assessed the inventory ageing and ability to continue as a going concern.
provisioning for reasonableness, including challenging the appropriateness of provisioning with reference to both Our assessment of risks of material misstatement historical and post year end performance and a review of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below the provision as a percentage of gross stock year on year.
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the We have also considered the impact of range changes and allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of other specific known areas of over-stock on the required the engagement team: provision calculation.
Revenue recognition: We have identified revenue from customer support agreements CSAs as significant.
In accounting for revenue from CSAs, the revenue is spread to reflect the expected claims under the agreements and there are key judgements inherent to the spreading methodology applied.
Dixons Retail plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Defined benefit pension assumptions: The defined An overview of the scope of our audit benefit pension liability is a significant balance with inherent Our group audit scope was focused on the audit work in the judgements.
As a result we have identified as a significant three key segments of the UK & Ireland, Nordics and Greece.
risk the review of actuarial valuations used in respect of the The key components in each of these locations were all subject defined benefit scheme and the assessment of the to full audit, which represented 100% of the Groups net assets, appropriateness of the assumptions used with the key revenues and profit before tax.
Our audit work at each location assumptions being the discount rate, inflation assumptions was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each and mortality assumptions.
individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
Our group audit scope was determined by obtaining an We have worked with pensions specialists to assess the understanding of the Group and its environment, including appropriateness of the assumptions underlying the valuation group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material of the pension deficit by reviewing the actuarial report and misstatement at the group level.
These components were also challenging each of the assumptions by comparison to selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit available market data.
We have confirmed the year end work to address the risks of material misstatement identified pension asset values to third party confirmations and above.
We also tested the consolidation process.
checked the integrity of those confirmations by agreeing a sample back to independent data.
We assessed the The group audit team continued to follow a programme of independence and competence of managements actuary.
planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out the group audit scope was focused at least once a year and on in the section entitled Key matters considered during the attended closing meetings in the UK, Greece and Norway in year of the Audit Committees report.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, the findings from their work.
and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and Act 2006 we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
In our opinion: Our application of materiality the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with financial statements that makes it probable that the economic the Companies Act 2006: and decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the information given in the Strategic Report and the the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of Directors Report for the financial year for which the our work.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8 million, which is below 5% of underlying profit before tax.
We use underlying profit before tax to provide a stable basis for materiality that reflects the focus of the users of the financial statements and is the primary key performance indicator used by management and the directors.
This excludes the effect of separately disclosed non-underlying items, as these can be volatile, and in the opinion of the directors, provides a more comparable measure with similar organisations and is consistent with the profit measure most relevant to analysts and investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Dixons Retail plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Adequacy of explanations received and accounting As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities records Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give you if, in our opinion: a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with we have not received all the information and explanations applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and we require for our audit: or Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also adequate accounting records have not been kept by the comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure not been received from branches not visited by us: or that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and the parent company financial statements are not in applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated agreement with the accounting records and returns.
professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Directors remuneration body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration state to the Companys members those matters we are required have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from assume responsibility to anyone other than the company these matters.
and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the Scope of the audit of the financial statements part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free our review.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, circumstances and have been consistently applied and we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant in the annual report is: accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read materially inconsistent with the information in the audited all the financial and non-financial information in the annual financial statements: or report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of the course of performing our audit: or performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent otherwise misleading.
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which Nicola Mitchell FCA we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that Senior Statutory Auditor we have not identified any such inconsistencies or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP misleading statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 June 2014 Dixons Retail plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
