STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF DOMINO PRINTING GOING CONCERN SCIENCES PLC As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Directors report that the Group is In our opinion: a going concern.
We confirm that: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern ofthe Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 31October 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year is appropriate: and thenended: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards concern.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly However, because not all future events or conditions can be prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the ability to continue as a going concern.
Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the The financial statements comprise the consolidated income engagement team: statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated and parent Company balance sheets, consolidated and parent Company statements of changes in equity, consolidated and parent Company cash flow statements and the related notes 1to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of goodwill of 85.8 million and other intangible assets We evaluated managements assumptions in the cash flow of 14.4 million see notes 15 and 16 to the financial statements.
forecasts used in the value in use calculation for goodwill and The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other other intangible assets, described in note 15 to the financial intangible assets, is a judgmental process which includes statements.
These included the cash flow projections, growth assumptions around future profits and revenue growth, hence rates and sensitivities used.
Together with our internal valuation there are inherent uncertainties to these models.
Goodwill and specialists, we challenged the discount rate applied to the separate other intangible assets are material balances within the Group cash generating units by comparing this against industry financial statements and Domino Printing Sciences plc operates in benchmarks on similar assets, the prevailing Group cost of capital a global market which is susceptible to economic change.
at the year end, and our understanding of the future prospects of the business.
We have considered the level of risk adjustment applied to each of the cash generating units.
In order to challenge the long-term growth rate applied to the cash flow projections we have considered market data and benchmarked the rate against comparator companies.
We have applied reasonable sensitivities to the model.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of contingent consideration We considered the appropriateness of managements assumptions The assessment of the carrying value of contingent consideration is used in the forecasts which support both the quantum and the a judgmental area as it is based on the same cash flow forecasts as timing of future payments for contingent consideration in light of used in the impairment review of goodwill and other intangible the reassessment made to the provision through observation of assets.
These cash flows are then used to assess the total amounts underlying agreements in place and discussions with operational payable to the previous owners of acquired businesses where the management external to finance.
We confirmed that the consideration owed is determined based on future profitability of movement in contingent consideration for each acquisition is the underlying business.
As described in note 23 to the financial consistent with the underlying forecasts and that the balance statements, the provision has reduced by 3.2 million this year to reflects the agreed repayment schedules.
Revenue recognition We carried out tests relating to controls over revenue recognition, There are significant judgments involved in applying the Groups including the accounting for multiple element arrangements and revenue recognition policies in relation to accounting for significant the timing of revenue recognition.
We reviewed the terms of contracts with multiple revenue streams e. g. installation, individual sales for Digital Press machines and agreed evidence of implementation and support.
These judgments are most significant delivery and installation, for sales spanning the year and the year for sales of Digital Press machines which were launched in 2013, end period and the treatment of these contracts in the financial particularly as regards the recording of these Digital Press sales in statements to assess whether the revenue recognition is the correct period.
The Groups policy on revenue recognition is set consistent with those terms, the Groups policy and relevant out in note 1 to the financial statements.
Last year our report included one other risk relating to the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to valuation of Dominos investment in TEN Media LLC.
This is no the Committee all audit differences in excess of 64,000 2013: longer a key risk in our audit as it is no longer material to the 80,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our Group financial statements.
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT on page 45.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and Based on that assessment, we focused our work primarily on not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express 11 of these locations, accounting for 87 per cent 2013: 95 per an opinion on these individual matters.
cent of the Groups profit before tax and 88 per cent 2013: OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY 92per cent of its revenue, were subject to an audit.
For 4 of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the the 11 locations the audit work was completed by component financial statements that makes it probable that the economic audit teams 16 per cent of Group profit before tax and 13 per decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed cent of Group revenue, at the other locations, the audit work or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our was carried out by the Group audit team.
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
At a further 8 locations, accounting for 13 per cent 2013: 5 per cent of the Groups profit before tax and 12 per cent 2013: 8 We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.2 million 2013: per cent of its revenue, we carried out analytical procedures 4.0 million, which is approximately 6.0 per cent 2013: 7.5 per toconfirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of cent of pre-tax profit and 1.5 per cent 2013: 2 per cent of equity.
material misstatement of the aggregated financial information In 2013 pre-tax profit excluding exceptional items was used.
The ofthe remaining operating locations not subject to audit.
percentage applied has reduced to be more comparable with Domino Printing Sciences peer group.
As set out in note 5 to the Our work at each location was carried out at levels of materiality financial statements, pre-tax profit is adjusted by excluding the applicable to each individual entity which ranged from 0.9 million to effect of separately disclosed exceptional non-recurring items and 2.2 million.
We also tested the consolidation at the parent level.
certain non-cash items as these can be volatile.
This measure provides a more comparable measure with similar organisations.
80 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of In particular, we are required to consider whether we have planned visits that has been designed so that a partner or a senior identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider components at least once every two years the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES communicated to the audit committee which we consider should ACT 2006: have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any In our opinion: such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Act 2006: and Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Report for the financial year for which the financial statements and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards EXCEPTION Ethical Standards for Auditors.
ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in if, in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the we have not received all the information and explanations we Companys members those matters we are required to state to require for our audit: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as received from branches not visited by us: or a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement have formed.
with the accounting records and returns.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable DIRECTORS REMUNERATION assurance that the financial statements are free from material Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Stuart Henderson ACA Senior statutory auditor materially inconsistent with the information in the audited for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial statements: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Cambridge, England inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 15 December 2014 course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 81
