FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Opinion on financial statements reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the In our opinion: directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
o the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Inaddition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 28 December 2014 theannual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the o the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Ifwebecome aware of any apparent material misstatements or as adopted by the European Union: inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
o the parent company financial statements have been properly Our application of materiality prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy.
Forthepurposes of determining whether the financial statements are free o the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the from material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude of an requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
As we What we have audited develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall financial We have audited the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc statement level and at the individual account level.
Performance materiality for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 which comprise the Group is the application of materiality at the individual account level.
income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income, Group balance sheet, Group statement of changes in equity, Group cashflow Planning the audit solely to detect individually material misstatements statement, the parent company balance sheet, the parent company overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually immaterial misstatements reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, Group related notes may cause the financial statements to be materially misstated, and leaves 1 to 35 and the parent company related notes 1 to 9.
The financial no margin for possible undetected misstatements.
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determine a magnitude Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements as a whole.
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.7 million which is 5% Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted ofpre-tax profit.
We changed our performance benchmark from pre-tax Accounting Practice.
profit before exceptional items underlying pre-tax profit, used in 2013, aswe do not consider it necessary to add back such items in the current This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, period to determine a normalised profit amount.
This provided the basis for inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
In 2013 we inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent determined materiality for the Group to be 2.0m which was approximately permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for ouraudit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of theGroups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set account or balance for the Group should be 50% 2013: 50% of planning out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the materiality, namely 1.4 million 2013: 1.0 million.
Our objective in financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and adopting this approach was to ensure that the total uncorrected and fairview.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International of 2.7 million for the financial statements as a whole.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
all audit differences in excess of 0.1 million 2013: 0.1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted Scope of the audit of the financial statements reporting on qualitative grounds.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the lightofother relevant qualitative considerations.
accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances Dominos Pizza Group plc 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and response to that risk The table below shows the risks of material misstatement we identified that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation ofresources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team together with our audit response to those risks: Area of focus Response Cross reference to ARA page note Revenue recognition We focused on this area due to the significant We performed detailed testing on a sample of sales Strategic Report p1p33, value of revenue for the Group 294m 2013: transactions from origination through to the general ledger Risk Management p20, 269m, the risk of revenues being recognised to ensure revenue was appropriately recorded and to in incorrect periods through cut off errors and address the risk of cut off.
This was performed across each Note 2 Accounting Policies p74p81 the risk of inappropriate accounting for of the groups significant revenue streams of royalties, Note 3 Revenue p81 deductions from revenue related to franchisee corporate store sales, sales to franchisees, rental income incentives, such as rebates, rent free periods and finance lease income.
Using the interrelationship of systems sales, royalty income and sales to franchisees, together with benchmarking like for like sales increases we set ourexpectation of revenue for the year on which oursubstantive analytical review procedures wereperformed.
We tested a sample of franchisee incentives in respect ofrebates and rent-free periods by confirming the calculation and payment was in line with the respective franchisee incentive agreement.
We assessed the appropriateness of revenue recognition and related recoverability of debtors by testing aged balances for customers operating outside agreed credit terms.
We selected journal entries relating to revenue and franchisee incentives for transactions close to the period end and verified to originating documentation that the entry was recorded in the correct period.
For sales to franchisees we tested that cut off procedures were appropriately applied at the year end.
Manipulation of reported earnings We focused on the risk of management override We agreed amounts of provisions to underlying Audit Committee Report p42 of internal control in areas of judgement over contractual agreements and performed sensitivity Note 2 Accounting Policies p74p81 property-related and other provisions andthe analysis on the assumptions in determining the final classification of exceptional items in outcome including the discount rate, estimates of future Note 7 Items excluded from determining non-GAAP measures of profitability, sub-let rental income and periods of non-use.
non-GAAP measure p83p84 which can influence market expectations and We challenged the classification of items disclosed in the management incentive arrangements.
non-GAAP measure of underlying profit before tax and the related tax impact to assess compliance with the Groups accounting policy, existing practice and the Financial Reporting Councils guidance issued in December 2013.
In 2013 we also focused on the risk of impairment in the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets related to the business in Germany.
Although this has remained an area of audit focus in the current year, this has had a lesser effect on our overall audit strategy, due to the level of impairments recorded in the previous year.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc An overview of the scope of our audit Matters on which we are required to report by exception The Groups operations are based in the United Kingdom, Republic of We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
Due to the location of finance staff Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, and processes all audit procedures are completed by one audit team inour opinion, information in the annual report is: based in the United Kingdom working across both subsidiary and Group financial statement audits.
o materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected six 2013: six components o apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent forfull scope audit procedures which represent the principal business with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of units within the Group and account for 97% 2013: 96% of the Groups performing our audit: or revenue and 101% of the Groups profit before tax 2013: 101% of profit o is otherwise misleading.
before tax before exceptional items.
In both the current period and prior period, due to certain insignificant loss making subsidiaries that were In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified outof scope for our Group audit, the coverage of Group profit before tax anyinconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the achieved from the entities within our Group scope was greater than 100%.
auditand the directors statement that they consider the annual report isfair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report The extent of audit work performed was based on our assessment of appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the therisks of material misstatement identified above and of the materiality Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
of the Groups business operations in that component.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, totalperformance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each inour opinion: component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of o adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.3m to 1.2m.
from branches not visited by us: or For the remaining components we performed review procedures to o the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the the Group financial statements.
As a result of the risk of misstatement accounting records and returns: or identified above in relation to revenue recognition and the materiality of the Swiss revenue balance, detailed testing procedures were performed o certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not on revenue in this component.
Detailed testing procedures on revenue made: or across the six full scope components and the Swiss component ensured o we have not received all the information and explanations we require that we had performed detailed testing across 99.6% of revenue.
for our audit: or Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies o a corporate governance report has not been prepared by the company.
Act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: In our opinion: o the directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going o the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been concern: and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: o the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the o the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared Governance Code specified for our review.
is consistent with the financial statements: and o the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on page 43 with respect to internal control and risk management Christopher Voogd Senior statutory auditor systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Statutory Auditor Birmingham Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Dominos Pizza Group plc web site is theresponsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does notinvolve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept noresponsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
