97 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Drax Group plc framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Opinion on financial statements of parent Company financial statements is applicable law and DraxGroupplc United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom In our opinion: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Going concern state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the then ended: directors statement that the Group is a going concern, contained within the operational and financial performance, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared review.
We confirm that: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union:, we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the, the parent Company financial statements have been financial statements is appropriate: and properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and, we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance going concern with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be IAS Regulation.
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive Our assessment of risks of material misstatement income, the Consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated The assessed risks of material misstatement described below statement of changes in equity, the related Group notes 1 to 36 are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the and the related parent Company only notes 1 to 8.
The financial allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation the engagement team and are the same risks as identified in of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs the prior year.
as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Useful economic life and carrying value of property, plant and We tested a sample of fixed asset additions to third party equipment evidence such as purchase invoice and bank statement The net book value of fixed assets at 31 December 2014 is to assess the validity, valuation and appropriateness of 1.7 billion 2013: 1.6 billion.
The assessment and timing of capitalisation of those additions.
whether assets meet the capitalisation criteria set out in IAS 16 We considered the circumstances as to whether any additions Property, Plant and Equipment, the estimation of appropriate or prevailing events would give rise to indicators of impairment useful economic lives and the assessment of whether any such as redundant assets.
impairment indicators are present, such as redundant assets, all require judgement.
Further explanation is included in We reviewed management assumptions over the carrying the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and value and useful economic life of key assets by consideration assumptions in note 3 and the Audit Committee report on of internal and external available data.
managements assumptions in estimating the useful economic lives of existing and new assets capitalised in the year based onour knowledge of the business.
Valuation of commodity contracts We used financial instruments specialists to test The valuation of commodity contracts is complex and requires managements key judgements and calculations, including judgement in areas such as estimates of future prices, market testing a sample of trades undertaken to supporting trade movements and assumptions of credit risk.
tickets confirming key information such as volumes and market price.
We challenged the assumptions involved in The accounting standards governing the availability and determining valuation, hedge effectiveness and credit risk, application of hedge accounting are complex, and require including analysis of the forward price curves used and hedge judgement in their applications.
Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in note 3 and the Audit Committee report on page74.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 98 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Drax Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our audit procedures include testing the underlying weighted Valuation of biomass and coal stocks average cost calculation for both coal and biomass to source Biomass stocks of 80 million and coal stocks of 148 million data such as purchase invoice for amounts delivered in the 2013: 36m and 141m respectively are held on the balance year.
This also included sample testing of the calorific value to sheet at year end.
The valuation of biomass and coal stocks is dependent upon the estimation or measurement of the third party laboratory reports or purchase invoice.
tonnage held, the calorific value, its purchase price and its We also assessed the results of external surveys completed net realisable value.
The weighted average cost calculation on the coal pile and attended the survey to assess the controls is complex for both coal and biomass and this results in over the accuracy of the survey.
We assessed biomass increasing risk of management error or bias and therefore an deliveries and usage associated with the calculation of increased risk of material misstatement.
Further details of the biomass volumes held at the year end.
key accounting policy judgements are included in note 3.
On a sample basis we also received external stock confirmation for stocks held off site.
Valuation and recoverability of Renewable Obligation We have assessed the initial fair value of ROCs by agreement Certificates ROCs of the buy-out price to available third party supporting 174 million of ROCs are held on the balance sheet at the year information and external sales agreements.
ROCs are recognised as they are We have also challenged the estimation by management earned through generating electricity from burning biomass oftherecycling fund element which impacts the estimated and initially recognised at fair value reducing the cost of netrealisable value of the ROCs held in the balance sheet at biomass in the income statement and subsequently written year end.
This included comparison to other available third down to the net realisable value as appropriate.
required from management in estimating both the initial fair value and estimated net realisable value, including the value We gain assurance over the ROCs generated in the year by of any recycling fund element.
Further detail is explained in agreement to Ofgem confirmation certificates and available the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and burn data.
assumptions in note 3 and the Audit Committee report on page74.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed An overview of the scope of our audit in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
scope primarily on the audit work at three locations 2013: the same three locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power Our application of materiality and Drax Biomass.
All of these were subject to a full audit.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the These three locations represent the principal business units financial statements that makes it probable that the economic and account for all of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the three our work.
locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.1 million and ranged from 2.9 million to 5.5 million 2013: 5.0 million 2013: 10 million, which is approximately 5% 2013: 7% of to 8.5 million.
adjusted pre-tax profit, and below 1% 2013: 1% of equity.
Pretax profit has been adjusted by excluding the effect of volatility At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation from unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts and process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our the one-off CESP settlement as described in note 2 from our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material determination.
Adjusted pre-tax profit is an appropriate base misstatement of the aggregated financial information of for determining materiality as shareholders place significant the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of value on the income statement, adjusted for these items.
The percentage applied to adjusted pre-tax profit has been The Group audit team follow a programme of planned visits reduced to align more closely with comparable companies.
that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report visits the most significant locations where the Group audit to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1 million scope was focused at least once a year.
In years when we 2013: 0.2 million, as well as differences below that threshold do not visit a significant component we will include the that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
component audit partner in our team briefing, discuss their risk We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters assessment and review documentation of the findings from that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of their work.
99 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the understandable and whether the Annual report appropriately CompaniesAct2006 discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been In our opinion: disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited inconsistencies or misleading statements.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor, the information given in the Strategic report and the As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Directors report for the financial year for which the statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements are prepared is consistent with the the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK Matters on which we are required and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the toreportbyexception Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems you if, in our opinion: include our dedicated professional standards review team and, we have not received all the information and explanations independent partner reviews.
we require for our audit: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we been received from branches not visited by us: or might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no, the parent Company financial statements are not in other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do agreement with the accounting records and returns.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting give reasonable assurance that the financial statements records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from are free from material misstatement, whether caused by these matters.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Corporate governance statement parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the our review.
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent weare required to report to you if, in our opinion, information material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the inthe annual report is: implications for our report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired James Leigh, FCA Senior statutory auditor inthe course of performing our audit: or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, otherwise misleading.
London, UK 23 February 2015 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual report is fair, balanced and Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
