Financial Statements 75 Independent Auditors Report to the members of DS Smith Plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF DS SMITH PLC In our opinion: x the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: x the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: x the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and x the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 12 to the Company Balance Sheet.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 49 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: x we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and x we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com 76 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We evaluated the appropriateness and completeness of the adjustments to the carrying value of acquired Accounting in respect of the assets and liabilities as a result of events occurring after the acquisition date within the fair value window acquisition of SCA Packaging period.
We also considered whether the effect of any events occurring outside of the fair value window Significant management judgement is involved in had been reflected appropriately within the financial statements.
determining the impact of events occurring after the acquisition date and within the fair value window period on the carrying value of acquired assets and liabilities.
Exceptional items have been evaluated by the local and Group audit teams as to their nature in order to Classification and presentation of assess whether their classification and presentation are in line with the Groups accounting policy and exceptional items guidance from the Financial Reporting Council.
The quantification of such items has been assessed by The presentation and consistency of costs and income agreeing to supporting source documentation.
We have reviewed managements application of the policy within exceptional items is a key determinant in the for consistency with previous accounting periods.
assessment of the quality of the Groups underlying We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements in Note 4 provide sufficient earnings.
Significant level of management judgement is detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
involved in ascertaining whether an item of cost or income is exceptional.
We worked with our tax audit specialists to challenge the estimates and judgements made by management Tax when calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the associated provisions held.
We reviewed The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect of a correspondence with taxation authorities in significant locations, as well as reviewing the support or opinions number of uncertain tax positions require judgements received from external counsel and other advisors where management has utilised such opinions to appraise in respect of the likely outcome of negotiations with the likely outcome of technical tax treatments and assessing the reasonableness of any provisions held.
We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model, specifically the cash flow projections, discount Carrying value of goodwill, tangible and rates and perpetuity growth rates.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to intangible assets and investment balances historical trading performance, consulting with our valuation specialists and benchmarking assumptions, The key assumptions used in the assessment of the such as the growth rate and discount rate to external macro-economic and market data.
carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets are Additionally, we considered the likelihood of change in managements assumptions and assessed the determined with reference to judgemental factors sensitivity of managements base case to an adverse change in the key assumptions both individually such as projected cash flows and the appropriate and collectively.
We evaluated managements assumptions used in calculating the bad debt provision and checked the Adequacy of working capital provisions calculations supporting the provision, testing the integrity of the ageing reports used as a basis to calculate Significant management judgement is required in the provision.
In order to assess the reasonableness of the provision, we reviewed the ageing of receivables determining the appropriate level of provision to be in comparison to previous years, reviewed the level of bad debt write offs in the current year and the prior year held in respect of irrecoverable trade receivables and checked the recoverability of outstanding receivables through examination of subsequent cash receipts.
We assessed the reasonableness of the recorded level of provision with reference to ageing of inventories and the level of inventory written off during the year.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the percentages applied and tested the integrity of the inventory ageing analysis.
We compared the actual sales value of a sample of inventory items to their book value to ascertain that the carrying value of inventories does not exceed their net realisable value.
We evaluated the adequacy of provision for damaged inventory during our observation of annual and perpetual inventory counts.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 52.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements 77 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 10 million, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We exclude the effect of exceptional items to provide a stable basis for materiality, as these are expected to be volatile year on year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven components located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands.
The component auditor provided an audit clearance to the Senior Statutory Auditor for each component.
These seven components represent the principal business units within the Groups key reportable segments and accordingly provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team takes an active part in the conduct of the audits at these seven components and follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the full scope components or attends close out meetings.
This year, the Group audit team visited all of the full scope components or attended close out meetings.
For those remaining components requiring a statutory audit, the component auditor provided reporting to the Senior Statutory Auditor on the significant risks and material balances.
The Group audit team undertook a programme of rotational visits at these components.
Where no visits were carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team held discussions with the local audit partner in the current year.
Together these components accounted for 93% of revenue and 91% of profit before tax.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of significant risks and material balances.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: x the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and x the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: x we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or x adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or x the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
com 78 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: x materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or x apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or x otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ian Waller Senior statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 June 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
