Strategic report Governance Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 28 June 2014 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Dunelm Group plc, comprise: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position as at 28 June 2014: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of cash flows for the period then ended: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the period then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual report and accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
We based our materiality on profit before tax.
We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate.
We determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 5.8 million.
This represents approximately 5% of profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC continued Report on the financial statements Overview of the scope of the audit The Group is structured with one segment.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of five legal entities within this segment, comprising the Groups operating business and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we identified two reporting units: Dunelm Soft Furnishings Limited and Dunelm Group plc Parent Company, which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information either due to size or risk characteristics.
In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of the remaining three non-significant reporting units such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the audit of the Group financial statements.
The audits of these five reporting units, together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, including consolidation, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This resulted in audit coverage of 100% of Group profit before tax.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 45.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisions Inventory represents a significant asset on the Groups balance In testing the inventory provisions we focused on historic loss sheet and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
experience to assess the provisions for loss, theft or damage of We focused on this area as judgement is required when inventory.
assessing the need for and the value of obsolescence provisions.
We assessed the net realisable value and obsolescence provisions against the historic rate of provisioning and actual recoveries achieved on clearances during the year.
We tested the accuracy of the provision calculation and we evaluated updates to the provision calculation for the impact of changes in product mix, sales discount and clearance routes.
Fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue We assessed the design and operating effectiveness of recognition because of the pressure management may feel to controls over revenue systems.
Revenue is the key driver for the We tested key revenue and cash reconciliations and tested business and as such represents a financial statement line item material manual journals to address the risk of management that is susceptible to fraud or manipulation.
Our main area of manipulation of revenue.
focus in considering the fraud risk in revenue recognition was Data analysis techniques were used for store and internet whether transactions had occurred that entitled revenue to be revenue streams to reconcile recorded revenue to cash recognised.
received and to identify non-standard revenue transactions which were then tested by checking to supporting documentation.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups operational audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries posted during the year to identify unusual or irregular items.
78 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 75, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 40 to 42 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 76 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On page 45, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit and Risk Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC continued Report on the financial statements Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 11 September 2014 80 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
