Governance Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc REPORT ON THE ACCOUNTS What we have audited Our opinion In our opinion: easyJet plcs accounts comprise: easyJet plcs Group accounts and Company accounts the Group consolidated and Company statements of financial position as at 30 September 2014: together the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs the Group consolidated income statement and as at 30 September 2014 and of the Groups profit and consolidated statement of comprehensive income the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year for the year then ended: then ended: the Group consolidated and Company statements the Group accounts have been properly prepared in of cash flows for the year then ended: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Group consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European the notes to the accounts, which include a summary Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of significant accounting policies and other of the Companies Act 2006: and explanatory information.
the accounts have been prepared in accordance with The financial reporting framework that has been applied the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, in the preparation of the accounts is applicable law and as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards IAS Regulation.
the Company accounts, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 29 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Materiality Audit scope The Group operates through the Company and its four trading subsidiaries: the Group accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these entities and the Group consolidation is largely centralised in the UK.
Audit scope Our audit scope comprises an audit of the Company and the complete financial information of the trading subsidiaries.
Areas of focus: Aircraft maintenance provisions.
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment.
com 93 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the accounts.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Aircraft maintenance provisions We evaluated the maintenance provision The Group operates aircraft which are owned or held under finance model and tested the calculations therein.
or operating lease arrangements and incurs liabilities for maintenance This included assessing the process by which costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases during the the variable factors within the provision were term of the lease.
These arise from legal and contractual obligations estimated, evaluating the reasonableness of relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.
the assumptions, testing the input data and reperforming calculations.
Maintenance provisions of 226 million for aircraft maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases are recorded In particular, we challenged the key in the accounts at 30 September 2014 refer to notes 1 and 17 to assumptions using the Groups internal data, the accounts.
such as business plans and maintenance contract terms.
We also performed sensitivity At each balance sheet date, the calculation of the maintenance analysis around the key drivers of the model.
provision includes a number of variable factors and assumptions including: likely utilisation of the aircraft: the expected cost of the heavy Having ascertained the magnitude of maintenance check at the time it is expected to occur: the condition movements in those key assumptions, of the aircraft: and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
that either individually or collectively would be required for the provision to be misstated, We focused on this area because of an inherent level of management we considered the likelihood of such judgement required in calculating the amount of provision needed as movements arising and any impact on a result of the complex and subjective elements around these variable the overall level of aircraft maintenance factors and assumptions.
provisions recorded in the accounts.
Treasury operations We evaluated and assessed the processes, The Group holds significant net funds, comprising cash and money procedures and controls in respect of the market deposits and borrowings through bank loans and finance lease Groups treasury and other management obligations.
Given the nature of the business, the Group also makes use functions which directly impact the relevant of derivative financial instruments.
Forward contracts are used to hedge account balances and transactions.
We tested transaction currency risk comprising fuel, leasing and maintenance managements year end account reconciliation US dollar payments, jet fuel price risk, and euro and Swiss franc process.
The results of this work allowed us revenue receipts.
to focus on substantiating the year-end positions recorded in the accounts.
At 30 September 2014, cash and money market deposits amount to 985 million, borrowings are 563 million, derivative financial assets We independently obtained third-party amount to 89 million and derivative financial liabilities are 110 million.
confirmations from each counterparty as Further details are set out in notes 1, 13, 15, 22 and 23 to the accounts.
We assessed the appropriateness of hedge accounting for the We focused on these balances because of their materiality to derivative financial instruments and tested, the financial position of the Group, the volume of transactions using independent data-feeds, the fair values passing through the respective accounts and the number of being ascribed to those instruments at the counterparties involved.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the accounts in respect of both non-derivative and derivative financial instruments.
94 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accruals We evaluated the systems, processes and The Group records a number of accrual balances which are specific to controls in place over accrual balances and the business and its operations.
At 30 September 2014, the aggregate also assessed key account reconciliation of all accruals is 309 million refer to notes 1 and 14 to the accounts.
Amongst other testing, we sought Whilst some accruals are easily and ordinarily calculated and processed, evidence of post year end cash and other others contain an element of judgement and are more complex in account movements which provided evidence nature, for example, customer claims in respect of flight delays, as to the validity of the accrual at the year end cancellations and Air Passenger Duty.
and we undertook analytical procedures over the related income statement cost categories.
We focused on this area because of an inherent level of complexity in management estimating certain accruals as a result of the We tested and challenged the reasonableness judgements that were to be made.
These types of accrual were not of the key assumptions underlying certain individually material but may, under certain circumstances, be material accruals, which included passenger claim in the aggregate.
history and levels, flight disruptions, no-show passengers and time periods.
We also tested the accrual input data, reperformed calculations and performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers, as well as considering the likelihood of material movements to such drivers.
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment We evaluated and challenged the future cash Goodwill arises from acquisitions in previous years and has an indefinite flow forecasts of the CGU, and the process expected useful life.
Landing rights which are an intangible asset by which they were drawn up, and tested the are considered by management to have an indefinite useful life as underlying value in use calculations.
In doing they will remain available for use for the foreseeable future.
this, we compared the forecast to the latest Board approved plans, along with Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually comparing prior year budget to actual data, at the cash-generating unit CGU level.
The Group has one CGU, as this informed as to the quality of the being its route network, to which all goodwill and landing rights relate.
At 30 September 2014, they amount, in aggregate, to 459 million refer to notes 1 and 8 to the accounts.
We also challenged the key assumptions for fuel prices, exchange rates and long-term We focused on this assessment as the impairment test involves a growth rates in the forecasts by comparing number of subjective judgements and estimates by management, many them to economic and industry forecasts: of which are forward-looking.
These estimates include key assumptions and the discount rate by assessing the surrounding the strategic plans through to 2019, fuel prices, exchange cost of capital for the Company and rates, long-term economic growth rates and discount rates.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and landing rights to be impaired.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the accounts as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group operates through the Company and its four trading subsidiary undertakings as set out on page 133 and the Group accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these entities is largely centralised in the UK and our audit scope comprises an audit of their complete financial information.
These procedures gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on the Groups accounts as a whole.
com 95 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued Materiality Going concern The scope of our audit is influenced by our application Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for Directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, going concern.
We have nothing to report having helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the performed our review.
nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts on the accounts as a whole.
using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going Based on our professional judgement, we determined concern basis presumes that the Group and Company materiality for the accounts as a whole as follows: have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year Overall group 29 million 2013: 23 million.
from the date the accounts were signed.
As part of our materiality audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the How we 5% of profit before tax.
going concern basis is appropriate.
determined it However, because not all future events or conditions can Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as benchmark generally accepted auditing practice, in the to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a applied absence of indicators that an alternative going concern.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2 million 2013: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited accounts: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on pages 62 and 63, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code dated September 2012 arising from this responsibility.
the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 60 to 63, as required by provision We have no exceptions to report C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not arising from this responsibility.
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
96 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Adequacy of accounting records and information What an audit of accounts involves and explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to report to you if, in our opinion: give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud we have not received all the information and or error.
This includes an assessment of: explanations we require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the adequate accounting records have not been kept by Groups and the Companys circumstances and have the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: not been received from branches not visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates the Company accounts and the part of the Directors made by the Directors: and Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the accounts.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing responsibility.
the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the Directors remuneration disclosures in the accounts.
Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration We test and examine information, using sampling and report to be audited has been properly prepared in other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider accordance with the Companies Act 2006. necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report or a combination of both.
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited accounts and to Corporate governance statement identify any information that is apparently materially Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the having performed our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE ACCOUNTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the Directors John Minards Senior Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors for and on behalf of  LLP responsibilities set out on page 92, the Directors are Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for St Albans, Hertfordshire being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
17 November 2014 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the accounts in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
