ACCOUNTS CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Aggreko plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Aggreko plcs financial statements comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2014: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law andIFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 14 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax.
We conducted audit work at the 11 most significant reporting units within the group, which together comprised 77% of the Groups revenues and 88% of the Groups profit before tax.
Audit scope We worked closely with audit teams outside the UK and visited the teams in Houston and Dubai.
Our audit focused on the following areas: Areas of focus contract receivables balances and associated provisioning: taxation provisions direct and indirect : and revenue recognition.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, wealso addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, areidentified as areas of focus in the table below.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We have also setout how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as awholeand any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context, including our overall group audit materiality.
126 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We documented and gained an understanding of the key controls and Contract receivables balances processes that management and the directors have in place to assess andassociated provisioning the expected recovery of Power Projects contract receivables balances refer to page 85 contract provisions and associated provisioning.
withintheAudit Committee Report, page 140 We checked, on a sample basis, that the Groups Power Projects Keyassumptions and significant judgements pre-contract risk assessment procedures were in place in respect of and pages 150 and 151 note 16 to the accounts significant contracts entered into during the year and did not identify One of the biggest risks to the Group is non-payment anywhere they were not.
by customers under some of the larger contracts in We obtained the contract receivables analyses and tested the gross the Power Projects business.
receivables balances, on a sample basis, for example by tracing to Contract receivables provisions are, by their nature, outstanding invoices or subsequent cash receipt.
highly judgemental, mainly due to the unpredictability We then applied various selection criteria, principally the largest contract and volatility of cash receipts in higher risk territories.
balances within each region, to identify 17 contracts for testing We focused on this area due to the magnitude of both representing 83% of the total amount outstanding at 31 December the Power Projects accounts receivable balances 2014.
For those contracts selected, we: 208m 2013: 196m and the associated provisions, tested the relevant associated cover, including bonds, deposits and 38m 2013: 49m which are determined based on guarantees, to assess the residual contract receivable exposure: managements estimates.
considered the contract terms and assessed their accounting impact: considered the history of cash payments, including post year end cash receipts from the customer and compared the consistency ofassumptions used in calculating provisions, both over time within thecontract and as between contracts with similar risk profiles: and used our knowledge and experience to consider the completeness and challenge the basis of contract provisioning.
This is an area which requires significant management judgement and has a range of possible outcomes.
However from the evidence we have obtained, we did not identify any material misstatement in the contract receivables provision.
We documented and gained an understanding of the key controls and Tax provisions Direct and indirect processes that management and the directors have in place to assess refer to page 85 Direct and indirect tax the tax risks and exposures and the associated direct and indirect provisions within the Audit Committee Report, tax provisioning.
page 140 Key assumptions and significant judgements We obtained reports showing the components of the tax provisions and used them to identify the most significant balances for detailed testing.
The Groups direct and indirect tax provisions are, bytheir nature, highly judgemental.
This is due to the We then applied various selection criteria, principally the largest complexity of the Groups operations in multiple tax balances and identified 17 provisions for testing representing 75% jurisdictions and the changing tax environments in ofthetotal direct and indirect tax provision at 31 December 2014. which it operates.
As appropriate, we tested the provisions as follows: understood and tested the provision calculation: We focused on this area due to the magnitude read and considered the implications for our audit of relevant ofdirect and indirect tax provisions which are correspondence with tax authorities: determined based on managements estimates.
used our tax expertise and our knowledge and experience of developments in the relevant tax jurisdictions to consider the Total direct and indirect tax provisions at 31 December 2014 were 69m 2013: 70m, which is made up completeness and challenge the basis of the significant provision ofdirect tax provisions of 54m 2013: 54m and judgements made by management and in house tax specialists: and indirect tax provisions of 15m 2013: 16m.
utilised our experience of similar situations elsewhere to independently assess the evidence supporting those direct and indirect tax provisions.
This is an area which also requires significant management judgement and has a range of possible outcomes.
However from the evidence we have obtained, we did not identify any material misstatement in the direct and indirect taxation provisions.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 127 ACCOUNTS CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We understood key controls around revenue and receivables and Revenue recognition performed testing where appropriate.
Based on the results of our testing refer to page 137 notes to the accounts of controls, we did not amend our planned approach to auditing revenue.
Revenue is recognised in accordance with the For the Power Projects businesses, we selected a sample of customer contractual arrangements and is accrued or deferred contracts and agreed that revenue was invoiced in line with the contract.
at the balance sheet date, depending on the date of We recalculated a sample of accrued and deferred income and tested the most recent invoice issued and other specific the timing of revenue recognition by tracing back to supporting contractual terms.
documentation: for example contract terms and invoices.
In the Power Projects businesses, we focused on For the local businesses, we used revenue data auditing techniques theaccrual or deferral of revenue.
toprovide assurance over standard revenue transactions and to check In the local businesses, revenue recognition is that transactions had been correctly recorded.
This also enabled us to generally not complex.
As a result, we focused on identify and substantively test a sample of non-standard transactions by non-standard revenue transactions and the timing tracing them to appropriate supporting documentation.
We also tested ofrecognition of transactions around the year-end asample of accrued and deferred revenue balances by reference to tomake sure they were recorded in the correct supporting documentation.
For both the Power Projects and local businesses, our testing also Power Projects revenues were 673m 2013: focused on manual journals posted to revenue.
669m and Local Business revenues were 904m From the evidence obtained, we found revenue recognition to be in 2013: 904m for the year ended 31 December 2014. accordance with Aggrekos accounting policies and did not identify anymaterial misstatements.
How we tailored the audit scope The scope of our audit reflected the organisational structure of the group across 3 regional units: APAC, EMEA and Americas, which combine local businesses with Power Projects businesses.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls and the areas of greatest audit risk.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each partof the business by the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms.
We sent detailed group instructions to all of those component auditors, in which we identified and explained the areas where we wanted them to focus their work.
We then held meetings and calls with them to clarify and discuss their audit approach, materiality and reporting requirements.
Senior members of the group audit team visited the component audit teams in Dubai and Houston in order to direct and supervise their work whilst the teams were on site.
In addition, we had meetings and calls with the component auditors as their audit work progressed so that we could effectively supervise, direct and understand the findings from their work.
We received written reports from each component auditor summarising the final conclusions from their audit work.
Through a combination of full scope audits and directed scope procedures we performed group audit work in the 11 most significant reporting units across the group which covered 77% of the Groups revenues and 88% of the Groups profit beforetax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
128 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 14 million 2013: 17 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax 2013: 5% of profit before tax Rationale for materiality We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, inthe benchmark applied absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be more appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2013: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
There were no material unadjusted misstatements identified.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 124, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 129 ACCOUNTS CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthe group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 124, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report theUK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report arising from this responsibility.
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 84 and 85, as required by provision C. 3.8 of We have no exceptions to report the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address arising from this responsibility.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
130 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 124, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK&Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with theaudited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Graham McGregor Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 5 March 2015 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 131
