ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Taxation 29.6 million income statement charge 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is Refer to page 61 Audit Committee Report Significant unmodified accounting issues and areas of judgement and page 114 note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
We have audited the financial statements of Electrocomponents plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set The risk Accruals for tax contingencies require the Directors out on pages 96 to 145.
In our opinion: to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental areas t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the that our audit is focused on due to the Group operating in state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then pricing regulations and other international tax legislation and ended: the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the relevant t the Group financial statements have been properly authorities.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: Our response In this area our audit procedures included, t the Parent Company financial statements have been among others, the use of our own international and local properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting tax specialists to assess the Groups tax positions, its Standards: and correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as the application of the international and local legislation by the regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS relevant authorities and courts.
We have also considered the Regulation.
adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement uncertain tax positions.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of statements the risks of material misstatement that had the the scope of our audit greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole Inventory valuation 286.4 million gross inventories and was set at 6.0 million.
This has been determined with 27.6 million provisions reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report Significant which it represents 5.9%, which we consider to be one of accounting issues and areas of judgement and page 121 the principal considerations for members of the Company in note 17 to the financial statements.
assessing the financial performance of the Group.
The risk The Group holds significant quantities of a diverse We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all product range for a significant period with different products corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified being in different phases of their lifecycles.
There is a risk through our audit with a value in excess of 0.3 million, in that some of this inventory will not be sold and the Group addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold performs an estimate of the value of the provision required.
that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The key judgements relate to the duration of product Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by lifecycles, amount of anticipated sales over this lifecycle and component auditors at the key reporting components in the value recoverable from any excess stock.
the following countries: United Kingdom 1 component, Our response In this area, our audit procedures included, Continental Europe 8 components, North America 1 among other things, assessing the appropriateness of the component and Asia Pacific 9 components.
In addition, provisioning policy applied by management and challenging specified audit procedures were performed by component the key assumptions in the calculation including inventory auditors in Japan.
These Group procedures covered 98% of lifecycles, expected future sales levels and recoverable value, total Group revenue: 99% of Group profit before taxation: and corroborating assumptions against external evidence where 99% of total Group assets.
The segment disclosures in note 3 relevant.
We utilised or own modelling specialists to recalculate set out the individual significance of specific regions.
the provision and assess the methodology, and corroborated the source data used against the accounting records.
Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 95 The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to key reporting components of the Group were all performed you if, in our opinion: to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not component and ranged from 10,000 to 4.0 million.
been received from branches not visited by us: or Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in t the Parent Company financial statements and the part of these locations.
These instructions covered the significant the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in audit areas that should be covered by these audits which agreement with the accounting records and returns: or included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed t certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by above and set out the information required to be reported law are not made: or back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team is also t we have not received all the information and explanations the auditor of the UK component.
Telephone meetings were we require for our audit: or held with the auditors in North America, France, Germany t a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared and Italy, and where necessary with the other components by the Company.
t Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the t the Directors Statement, set out on page 55, in relation to Companies Act 2006 is unmodified going concern: and In our opinion: t the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 52 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the specified for our review.
Companies Act 2006: We have nothing to report in respect of the above t the information given in the Strategic Report and the responsibilities.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Scope of report and responsibilities financial statements: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities t the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 90, the Directors are responsible Statement set out on pages 48 to 57 with respect to for the preparation of the financial statements and for being internal control and risk management systems in relation satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description to financial reporting processes and about share capital of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided structures is consistent with the financial statements.
on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the to the Companys members as a body and is subject to matters on which we are required to report by important explanations and disclaimers regarding our exception responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an have identified other information in the annual report that understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor t we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Chartered Accountants statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 15 Canada Square financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and London understandable and provides the information necessary for E14 5GL shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business 22 May 2014 model and strategy: or t the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
