Independent auditors report to the members of Elementis plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Post retirement benefits $65.8 million 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Refer to page 33 Audit Committee report, page 64 accounting policy We have audited the financial statements of Elementis plc for the year and page 85 financial disclosures.
ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 60 to 96.
In our opinion: The risk Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of post-retirement defined benefit schemes and small changes in the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups net pension 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: deficit would have a significant effect on the results and financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared position of the Group.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Our response In this area our audit procedures included, testing a as adopted by the European Union: sample of the UK and US schemes membership data to the source the Parent company financial statements have been properly documentation.
We inspected the actuarial reports received by the prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and Group and with the support of our own actuarial specialists, we then the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with challenged the key assumptions applied to those data to determine the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the groups net deficit, being the discount rate, inflation rate and the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This included a comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data.
Our assessment of risks of material mis-statement arrangements have been agreed to the underlying documentation, In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, whilst asset values have been agreed to external confirmations.
the risks of material mis-statement that had the greatest effect on We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in our audit were as follows: respect of IAS 19.
Environmental provisions $31.7 million Tax asset recoverability $56.4 million Refer to page 33 Audit Committee report, page 64 accounting policy Refer to page 33 Audit Committee report, page 67 accounting policy and page 76 financial disclosures.
The risk As a chemicals company, the possibility of legal The risk The group has now recognised significant tax assets proceedings and environmental issues are inherent within the in respect of Advance Corporation Tax and UK tax losses.
Elementis has numerous operating and legacy sites is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future taxable profits worldwide with provisions recognised for the future cost of the which support the extent to which tax assets are or are not environmental issues.
The amounts involved are potentially significant recognised.
The recoverability of these amounts is determined and future cash flows are uncertain whilst the application of by the existence of future taxable profits.
accounting standards to determine the amount of liability to Our response Our audit procedures included inspecting the recognise or release, if any, for individual issues requires judgement.
groups taxable profit forecasts and assessing the assumptions Our response Our audit procedures included, correspondence in the forecasts.
We used our own tax specialists to assist us in with the Groups external consultants on the current situation assessing the recoverability of the Advance Corporation Tax and and risks regarding all identified significant environmental issues.
tax losses against the forecast future taxable profits, taking into We obtained confirmation of the qualifications of the consultants.
account the Groups tax position, the amount and timing of forecast We inspected the consultants reports documenting the forecast taxable profits, and our knowledge and experience of the application future cash flows with regard to these issues.
We compared the of relevant tax legislation.
This included assessing the Groups Companys discount rate with external market data and assessed tax structures and confirming the official clearance received from the unwinding of the provision recognised in finance costs.
HM Revenue and Customs, where relevant.
A sample, selected using statistical sampling methodology, of the cash flows incurred in the year relating to the provisions were agreed 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope to the underlying documentation.
We considered the consistency of our audit of forecast cash flows with previous estimates by comparing the The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set most recent actual cash flows with the prior year external report.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark In addition, we inspected the Group litigation and compliance of Group profit before taxation of $148.2 million of which it represents reports and held discussions with the Groups internal counsel for all 4.7 per cent.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures detailing significant provisions and contingent liabilities adequately We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified disclose the potential liabilities of the Group.
mis-statements exceeding $0.35 million, in addition to other identified mis-statement that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 139 reporting components, we subjected 11 to audits for Group reporting purposes and 29 to specified risk focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
58 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following In particular, we are required to report to you if: percentages of the groups results: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that Number of Group Group profit Group total they consider that the annual report and financial statements components revenue before tax assets taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Audits for Group the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups reporting purposes 11 92% 101% 85% performance, business model and strategy: or Specified risk focused the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address audit procedures 29 0% -4% 8% matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Total 40 92% 97% 93% Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, The remaining 8 per cent of total group revenue, 3 per cent of group profit in our opinion: before tax and 7 per cent of total group assets is represented by 99 of the reporting components, none of which individually represented more than adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 2 per cent of any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Group assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at from branches not visited by us: or an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were the Parent company financial statements and the part of the no significant risks of material mis-statement within these.
Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the not made: information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the we have not received all the information and explanations we require component materialities, which ranged from $0.4 million to $4.5 million, for our audit: or having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 9 of the 40 components was performed by Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
the directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to The Group audit team visited 2 component locations in the year.
Video going concern: and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 28 to 30 auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and relating to the Companys compliance with the 10 provisions of the meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act Scope and responsibilities 2006 is unmodified As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement In our opinion: set out on page 57, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report at www.
This report is made solely for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important is consistent with the financial statements.
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should we are required to report by exception be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material mis-statement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Lynton Richmond Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 24 February 2015 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 59
