Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 30 September 2014 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and for the Parent Company as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 67, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Our audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
122 122 Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts www www.
com ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 St Stoc ock code: k code: ETI ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a lower level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.0 million 2013: 6.1 million, which is calculated as 5% 2013: 5% of pre-exceptional pre-tax profit.
We use pre-exceptional pre-tax profit as reported by the Group to exclude the impact of exceptional items which do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the group thereby avoiding inappropriate variations in our materiality as a result of non-recurring items and fluctuations in the carrying value of the pub estate which can be significant compared to underlying trading performance.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that performance materiality for the Group should be 50% 2013: 50% of materiality, namely 3.0 million 2013: 3.0 million.
Our approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of ensuring that the total of uncorrected and undetected audit differences does not exceed our materiality of 6.0 million 2013: 6.1 million for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million 2013: 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Group continues to operate from a single office and has common financial systems, processes and controls covering all of its operations.
Four legal entities account for 100% of the Groups revenue, operating profit, pre-exceptional pre-tax profit and total assets, one being the Parent Company itself, and all of which were subject to full scope audits for the year ended 30 September 2014.
The audits of these entities are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of the Group materiality appropriate to the relevant scale of the business concerned.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.1 million to 3.0 million.
The audit of all the companies within the Group is undertaken by one audit team.
Due to the nature of the main risk areas noted below, the audit team is supported by experts in property valuations, taxation, and the evaluation of the weighted average cost of capital.
Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts 123 123 ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements and consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources and the efforts of the engagement team, including the more senior members of the team: Principal risk area and rationale Audit response Valuation of the licensed estate The valuation of the licensed estate, We performed detailed sample testing whereby individual movements in pub including those assets held for sale, which values were investigated and validated to the individual property valuations.
total 3.8 billion is described in detail in In order to select a sample focused more on those pub valuations we note 17 to the financial statements.
considered to be most at risk of misstatement, we analysed features This is the largest estimate within the including the trading performance of the individual pub, the nature of the rent financial statements, built on an asset agreement and managements qualitative analysis of pubs within the overall by asset basis.
Whilst the valuation is estate.
This analysis highlighted those classes of pubs, or pubs, where the performed by a combination of internal movement in value was not consistent with our expectations.
and external, appropriately qualified In addition, together with our property valuation expert, we met with the valuers as described in note 17 there Groups internal and external valuers to discuss and challenge the method remains a risk that individual assets are adopted, the derivation of the key inputs of fair maintainable trade and over or under valued.
multiple as described in note 17 and the nature and extent of the work In addition, the new requirements of IFRS they performed in preparing the valuations.
We sought explanations for 13 Fair Value Measurement increase the movement in the value of the pub estate as a whole, movement in the the risk of incomplete or inappropriate value of appropriate sub divisions of the pub estate, and where necessary, disclosures and introduce a new movement in the value of individual pubs, satisfying ourselves that the requirement to value assets on a highest explanations were reasonable and supported by appropriate evidence.
Working with our property valuations expert, we challenged the nature and extent of the additional disclosures made by the Group in order to address the requirements of IFRS 13, including obtaining the views of the internal and external valuers.
We further challenged the Group and the external valuers to ensure that the assets highest and best use was reflected in the asset valuation both within property, plant and equipment and, where applicable, immediately prior to transfer to non-current assets held for sale.
Goodwill The impairment review of goodwill We examined the Groups forecast cash flows which underpin the goodwill with a carrying value of 338 million is impairment review.
We challenged the reasonableness of those forecasts considered to be a risk area.
This reflects taking into account the accuracy of previous forecasts and the historic the reliance of the impairment review on evidence supporting underlying assumptions.
the accuracy of forecast cash flows and The reasonableness of the key assumptions of discount rate and long term the sensitivity of the review to the key growth rate underlying the goodwill impairment review were tested through assumptions of discount rate and long a combination of challenging the Groups detailed calculations, benchmarking term growth as described in note 15. the output against comparator companies and, in respect of the discount rate assumption, an independent assessment by our experts based on general market indicators.
We also considered whether any reasonably possible change in these key assumptions required disclosure under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
124 124 Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts www www.
com ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 St Stoc ock code: k code: ETI ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Principal risk area and rationale Audit response Going concern and impact of refinancing The Groups forecasts were subject to review as noted above.
The Group has to comply with a range We also recalculated the forecast compliance with the terms of the of covenants in respect of its corporate covenants to which the Group and subsidiaries are subject, taking account bonds, securitised bonds and bank of the relevant terms of the securitised debt structure.
borrowings as described in note 24: We understood the contractual arrangements surrounding the Groups compliance with which form a key part of refinancing completed on 7 October 2014, paying particular attention to the the Groups going concern assessment.
timing of any changes compared to the Groups period end.
The Groups forecast cash flows, discussed above under goodwill, also We challenged the presentation of the Groups outstanding liabilities subject underpin the going concern assessment.
to the refinancing, as non-current liabilities, to satisfy ourselves that this met the disclosure requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The refinancing disclosed in note 35 We challenged the treatment of both existing liabilities accounted for under which completed on 7 October 2014 was the effective interest rate method and additional costs incurred as a result of in progress at the year end, giving rise the refinancing, to ensure compliance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: to an increased risk that the impact of Recognition and Measurement.
the refinancing was not reflected in the We reviewed the financial statements to ensure the post year end refinancing correct accounting period.
Deferred tax on revaluation of the licensed estate Through the consideration of known and predictable scenarios for a randomly The calculation of the deferred tax selected sample of assets across the estate, working with our tax experts provision in respect of that element of the we re-performed the calculation of deferred tax to validate the ability of the provision associated with the revaluation model utilised by the Group to accurately calculate deferred tax on the pub of licensed land and buildings is complex, estate.
This ensured that the model has been correctly established to apply involving the interaction of accounting current tax legislation and enacted tax rates.
standards and multiple elements of tax We also challenged the overall proof of tax prepared by management on a legislation.
performance statement basis and ensured movements in the year were in This element of the deferred tax line with our expectations.
We investigated any unexplained movement.
provision, which totals 191 million, has to be calculated in respect of over 5,000 individual assets using a bespoke tax model.
The above risks are the same as in the prior year, unless stated otherwise.
We have excluded revenue recognition and risk of fraud arising from management override of internal controls which were identified last year, as they were not areas of greatest audit effort.
Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts 125 125 ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Nigel Meredith Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 17 November 2014 126 126 Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts www www.
com ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 St Stoc ock code: k code: ETI ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8
