COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ONLY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Essentra plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 92 to 141.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows.
Identified Risk Our Response Warranty provisions Refer to page 60 Report of the Audit Committee of In respect of warranty provisions, our procedures included the 2014 Annual Report, page 104 accounting policy critically assessing the methodology used for calculating the and page 124 financial disclosures.
This included assessing its appropriateness based on the historical accuracy of the methodology, comparing actual The risk Group produces a wide range of products and outcomes to provision levels from prior periods and challenging operates manufacturing facilities in a number of countries the approach taken on significant customer complaints which results in them being subject to varying laws, regulation outstanding at the year end.
We considered changes in market and consumer expectation.
conditions, such as new product launches, when setting our expectation based on past events.
We compared actual warranty Many of the Groups products are used by its customers outflows post year end, where significant, to those expected in creating their end product: if quality issues arise the Group at the balance sheet date.
We have considered the adequacy may need to make a provision for returns under warranty.
of the Groups disclosures in respect of warranty provisions.
This risk increases for new products or specifications or divisions which may be subject to health and safety regulation.
Measuring these provisions is a significant judgement and is inherently subjective.
142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ONLY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Identified Risk Our Response Carrying amount of trade receivables Refer to page 59 Report of the Audit Committee of Our audit procedures included testing the effectiveness of the the 2014 Annual Report, page 104 accounting policy Groups controls over the monitoring of receivables and over the and pages 105 and 106 financial disclosures.
We compared cash collections post year end to the Groups expectations at the balance sheet date and The risk In most of its business lines, the Group has a large investigated any significant items that had not been collected.
number of customers which in aggregate have significant We assessed the reasonableness of the provision by comparing outstanding balances.
However, they do also face some the ageing of the trade receivables between the current and prior customer concentration risk in the Filters and Pipe Protection period.
For the outstanding amounts we considered the location businesses.
Further, some of their customers operate in of the customer and the externally available market data such countries facing more difficult economic circumstances, as GDP information for that country to set an expectation of the which exposes the Group to additional bad debt risk.
level of provision required taking changing economic conditions into account and compared our expectation to the Groups provision.
For significant overdue receivables we assessed available information for the rationale behind the non-payment, including checking whether the relevant customers have filed for bankruptcy, and considered the appropriateness of including these overdue receivables in the provision at year end.
We have considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
Taxation contingencies Refer to page 59 Report of the Audit Committee of In this area our audit procedures included an assessment of the the 2014 Annual Report, page 104 accounting policy Groups tax position on outstanding issues and correspondence and page 116 financial disclosures.
with the relevant tax authorities.
This included the use of our own international and local tax specialists to analyse correspondence The risk Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors and challenge the assumptions used to determine the requirement to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues for any tax provisions.
This assessment utilises the tax specialists and exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental areas that knowledge of international and local tax legislation and their past our audit concentrates on due to the Group operating in a number experience of the range of possible outcomes.
We have considered of different tax jurisdictions and the complexities of transfer the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and pricing and other international tax legislation.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 7.2 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 7%.
We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.35 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ONLY Audits for Group reporting purposes or specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors at the reporting components in the following countries: Audits for Group reporting purposes Specified risk-focussed audit procedures United Kingdom 6 sites United States of America 3 sites Brazil 2 sites India 1 site Singapore 2 sites Indonesia 1 site Turkey 1 site Thailand 1 site Italy 1 sites Hungary 1 site United States of America 1 site Germany 1 site India 1 site The components subject to specified risk-focussed audit procedures were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
These Group procedures covered: Group revenue Group profit before taxation Group net assets 5% 3% 33% 26% 56% 92% 60% 11% 14% Audits for Group reporting purposes Audits for Group reporting purposes Audits for Group reporting purposes specified risk focussed audit procedures specified risk focussed audit procedures specified risk focussed audit procedures Out of Scope Out of Scope Out of Scope The remaining 33% of Group revenue, 5% of Group profit before tax and 26% of Group net assets is represented by 91 components around the world.
None of the 91 components represented more than 2.9% of total Group Revenue, 5% of Group profit before tax, or 2.9% of Group net assets.
For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ONLY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the components materiality, which ranged from 0.1m to 2.2m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team visited the following locations: United Kingdom and United States.
Telephone meetings were also held with the component auditors at all locations and the Group audit team attended all component auditors clearance meetings at the year end.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on pages 90 of the 2014 Annual Report, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 51 and 57 of the 2014 Annual Report relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ONLY Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 91 of the 2014 Annual Report, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to Essentra plcs members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mike Barradell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 20 February 2015 146
