Group Accounts Independent Auditors Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC the company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial Opinion on financial statements of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by In our opinion: the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements groups and of the parent companys affairs as at September 30 2014 is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Going concern adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting contained within the Directors Report that the group is a going concern.
Practice: and We confirm that: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast The group financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as related notes 1 to 30.
The parent company financial statements comprise a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for acquisitions and disposals We reviewed the sale and purchase agreements for significant acquisitions and assessed The group has acquired Infrastructure Journal and the acquisition accounting for each.
This included testing the validity and completeness of Mining Indaba in the year and disposed of the consideration and evaluating managements assumptions and methodology supporting the MIS Training business.
They also have acquisition fair values of intangible and net assets acquired for each significant acquisition in the year.
commitments on previous acquisitions including NDR.
We tested the profit calculation for MIS Training including auditing all related costs of sale The accounting and valuation for each of these involves and assessing the fair value of the consideration received by evaluating managements significant judgement and is based on managements estimate of future performance.
assumptions about the fair value of assets and liabilities We have also assessed managements assumptions used in the valuation of the deferred acquired, and the consideration paid or received.
consideration and put option liabilities, predominantly relating to the profit forecasts of the acquired businesses.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible We considered whether managements impairment review methodology is compliant with assets IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Our audit work focused on the assumptions used in the The group has 383.9 million of goodwill and a impairment model, including specifically: further 161.5 million of other intangible assets on using valuation experts to determine the appropriateness of the discount rates: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at comparison of growth rates against those achieved historically and other external data, September 30 2014. where available: and Management is required to carry out an annual agreeing the underlying cash flow projections for each cash generating unit to Boardgoodwill impairment test, which is judgemental approved forecasts and verifying trends to our other audit work to understand the and based on a number of assumptions including in drivers of potential impairment.
respect of future cash flow projections, growth rates and discount rates.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 68 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition We carried out testing in relation to revenue using a combination of analytical procedures Revenue represents income from advertising, and substantive testing, focusing in particular on the reconciliation of deferred subscription subscriptions, sponsorships and delegate fees.
income to subscription fulfilment reports and the treatment of income and costs on events spanning the year end.
Judgement is exercised by management, in particular in relation to the apportionment of subscription revenue and the point of recognition of revenue earned close to the year end.
Share-based payments We assessed managements assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the options at The groups new Capital Appreciation Plan CAP was the date of grant, as set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements, including granted in the year.
specifically: using valuation experts to assess the valuation model used and to determine the The accounting and valuation of this plan requires appropriateness of the discount rate, share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rate significant judgement and is based on managements of return and expected option lives used: and assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the agreeing underlying cash flow projections at the grant date to Board-approved forecasts.
options at the date of grant and their estimate for the number of shares that are expected to eventually vest.
We also assessed the estimate of the number of shares that are expected to vest by agreeing the latest underlying CAP profit forecasts at the year end to Board-approved forecasts, and agreeing the calculations to the underlying rules of the scheme.
Significant provisions and accruals Our work focused on assessing the adequacy and appropriateness of the central provisions The group continues to recognise central provisions and accruals.
In particular, we: and accruals.
There is a significant judgement exercised assessed the key judgements supporting provisions in relation to onerous property by management in the estimation of such provision leases by verifying sub-let income and evaluating the likelihood of default over the balances.
lease term: tested the restructuring provision to asses whether management had communicated all redundancies to employees in advance of the year end: considered the ageing profile of trade receivables and the level of trade receivable provisioning across the group in relation to write-offs in the year: and gained an understanding of the implications of outstanding or unresolved indirect tax and legal disputes to assess whether the level of provisioning continues to be appropriate by reviewing correspondence with legal advisors.
Tax We involved our tax specialists to consider the appropriateness of provisions in respect The group has exposure to tax risks through open items of items under discussion with tax authorities by reviewing the groups current year with tax authorities accrued for in several jurisdictions.
correspondence and assessing managements judgements on any incremental increases or decreases in the provisions.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Independent Auditors Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Last year our report included two risks which are not included in our were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing report this year: presentation of adjusting items the groups policy is was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and consistent with last year, and the significant items are audited within of the materiality of the groups operations at those locations.
Together the risks above and considered separately and the appropriateness of with the central functions which were also subject to a full scope audit, capitalisation of internally-generated intangible assets the majority of the these components represent the principal business units of the group capitalized spend was completed last year.
and account for 80% 2013: 79% of revenue and 80% 2013: 85% of operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the incentive expense and exceptional items.
significant issues considered by the audit committee discussed on page 43.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on materiality and ranged from 1.0m to 2.8m 2013: 0.5m to 3.2m.
the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks In locations where local statutory audits are required, a lower statutory described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual materiality level was used.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Our application of materiality were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a or audit of specified account balances.
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned evaluating the results of our work.
visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the ten locations We determined materiality for the group to be 5.0 million 2013: 5.7 where the group audit scope was focused at least once a year except for million, which is less than 5% 2013: less than 6% of profit before tax.
Hong Kong where a conference call was held to discuss the results of the component audit work.
Our visits are timed to allow the group audit team We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the to attend the audit closing meetings and to assist in the resolution of Committee all audit differences in excess of 100,000 2013: 114,000, audit and accounting issues.
We also have ongoing communication with as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted component teams throughout the year.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 An overview of the scope of our audit In our opinion: Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: risks of material misstatement at the group level.
and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are on the audit work at ten 2013: ten components, which comprise prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
operations headquartered in London together with key operations in Canada, United Kingdom, United States and Hong Kong.
Six 2013: six of these were subject to a full scope audit and a further four 2013: four 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 70 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Matters on which we are required to report by Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor exception As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is our opinion: to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance we have not received all the information and explanations we require with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and for our audit: or Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology from branches not visited by us: or and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our the accounting records and returns.
dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Directors remuneration accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the nothing to report arising from these matters.
company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance Scope of the audit of the financial statements with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures nothing to report arising from our review.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately report is: disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
statements: or In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently performing our audit: or materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the otherwise misleading.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any we consider the implications for our report.
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee Robert Matthews Senior statutory auditor which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom November 19 2014 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8
