Independent Auditors Report To The Members Of EVRAZ PLC We present our audit report on the Group and Company Financial Statements as defined below of EVRAZ plc, which comprise the Group Primary Statements and related notes set out on pages 115 to 192 and the Company Primary Statements and related notes set out on pages 193 to 201.
Opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion EVRAZ plcs Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Group and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group and Parent Companys loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality of $62.8million which represents 2.7% of EBITDA Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components and audit procedures on specific balances, where we consider the risk of material misstatement to be higher, for a further 10 components.
The 15 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 87% of the Groups EBITDA and 90% of the Groups revenue of which 71% and 66% of these metrics were covered by full scope components.
For the remaining 54 reporting components in the Group we have performed other procedures appropriate to respond to the risk of material misstatement.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Areas of focus Goodwill and non-current asset impairment.
Political disturbances and economic sanctions.
Impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
What has changed Changes in our scope since the 2013 audit included increased procedures undertaken on the Groups North American operations in response to the potential IPO of that part of the business and a reduction in scope of some of the Groups Russian operations.
Following the removal of the requirement for separate audited financial statements in respect of the Russian entities in the current year, we have assessed their scope solely based on their potential impact on the financial results and position of the Group.
We increased our focus on the risks associated with political disturbances and economic sanctions in the current year due to the evolving situation in Russia.
The focus on the Groups assets held for sale reduced as a result of the decrease in the significance of these assets.
The impact of foreign exchange and segmental reporting are new areas of focus for the current year given the significant devaluation of the Russian Rouble in the year and changes to internal management reporting.
Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
Performance Reporting Materiality materiality threshold $62.8million $31.4million $3.1million 108 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements component.
In the current year the range processes and significant risk areas.
We have Materiality of performance materiality allocated to tailored our audit response accordingly and The magnitude of an omission or misstatement components was $6.3million to thus, for the majority of our focus areas, that, individually or in the aggregate could $22.0million.
audit procedures were undertaken directly reasonably be expected to influence the by the Group audit team with testing economic decisions of the users of the undertaken by the Component audit teams Reporting threshold Financial Statements.
on the verification of operational data and An amount below which identified other routine processes.
We determined materiality for the Group to misstatements are considered as being be $62.8million 2013: $54.7million, which clearly trivial.
In assessing the risk of material we set at 2.7% 2013: 3% of EBITDA.
We misstatement to the Group Financial decreased our materiality as a percentage We agreed with the Audit Committee that Statements, and to ensure we had adequate of EBITDA in the current year in response to we would report to the Committee all audit quantitative coverage of significant accounts, the increased risk profile of the economic differences in excess of $3.1million 2013: of the 69 reporting components of the Group environment in which the Group operates.
$2.7million, as well as differences below we selected 15 components covering entities Our materiality amount provides a basis for that threshold that, in our view, warranted within Russia, Ukraine, Switzerland and the determining the nature and extent of our risk reporting on qualitative grounds.
USA, which represent the principal business assessment procedures, identifying and units within the Group.
assessing the risk of material misstatement We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements and determining the nature and extent of against both the quantitative measures of Of the 15 components selected we performed further audit procedures.
Materiality is materiality discussed above and in light of an audit of the complete financial information assessed on both quantitative and qualitative other relevant qualitative considerations.
of five components full scope components, grounds.
With respect to disclosure and which were selected based on their size or presentational matters, amounts in excess Scope of the audit of the risk characteristics.
For the remaining 10 of the quantitative thresholds above may not Financial Statements selected components specific scope be adjusted if their effect is not considered to An audit involves obtaining evidence about components we performed audit procedures be material on a qualitative basis.
the amounts and disclosures in the Financial on specific selected accounts within the Statements sufficient to give reasonable component that we considered had the Rationale for basis assurance that the Financial Statements are potential for the greatest impact on the We have used an earnings based measure free from material misstatement, whether amounts in the Group Financial Statements as our basis of materiality.
It was considered caused by fraud or error.
This includes an either because of the size of these accounts inappropriate to calculate materiality using assessment of: whether the accounting or their risk profile.
group profit or loss before tax due to the policies are appropriate to the Groups historic volatility of this metric.
EBITDA is circumstances and have been consistently The 15 reporting components where we a key performance indicator for the Group applied and adequately disclosed: the performed audit procedures accounted for and is also a key metric used by the Group reasonableness of significant accounting 87% of the Group EBITDA and 90% of the in the assessment of the performance of estimates made by the directors: and the Groups revenue.
A further breakdown of the management.
We also noted that market overall presentation of the Financial size of these components compared to key and analyst commentary on the performance Statements.
In addition, we read all the metrics of the Group is provided below.
of the Group uses EBITDA as a key metric.
financial and non-financial information in the We therefore, considered EBITDA to be the Annual Report to identify material most appropriate performance metric on inconsistencies with the audited Financial which to base our materiality calculation as Statements and to identify any information 10% we considered that to be the most relevant that is apparently materially incorrect based 24% performance measure to the stakeholders on, or materially inconsistent with, the of the entity.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of 16% 13% performing the audit.
If we become aware Performance materiality of any apparent material misstatements or The application of materiality at the individual inconsistencies we consider the implications EBITDA account or balance level.
It is set at an for our report.
71% amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of Tailoring the scope uncorrected and undetected misstatements Revenue 66% Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of exceeds materiality.
materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each Full Specific Other On the basis of our risk assessment, together entity within the Group which, when taken with our assessment of the Groups overall together, enable us to form an opinion on the control environment, our judgment was that Consolidated Financial Statements under overall performance materiality for the Group International Standards on Auditing UK and For the remaining 54 components, we should be 50% 2013: 50% of materiality, Ireland.
We take into account size, risk profile, performed other procedures, including namely $31.4million 2013: $27.3million.
changes in the business environment and analytical review, testing of consolidation other factors when assessing the level of work journals and intercompany eliminations Audit work on individual components is to be performed at each entity.
and foreign currency translation recalculations undertaken using a percentage of our total to respond to any potential significant risks performance materiality.
This percentage is The EVRAZ Group has centralised processes of material misstatement to the Group based on the size of the component relative and controls over the key areas of our audit Financial Statements.
to the Group as a whole and our assessment focus with responsibility lying with group of the risk of misstatement at that management for the majority of judgemental EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 Independent Auditors Report To The Members Of EVRAZ PLC continued We have obtained an understanding of the Changes from the prior year Integrated team structure entity-level controls of the Group as a whole Our audit approach and assessment of areas The overall audit strategy is determined by which assisted us in identifying and assessing of focus changes in response to changes in the senior statutory auditor, Ken Williamson.
risks of material misstatement due to fraud or circumstances affecting the EVRAZ business The senior statutory auditor is based in the error, as well as assisting us in determining the and impacting the Group Financial Statements.
UK but, since Group management and most appropriate audit strategy.
Since the 2013 audit we have made the operations reside in Russia, the Group audit following changes to our areas of focus: team includes members from both the UK Changes from the prior year and Russia.
The senior statutory auditor Our scope allocation in the current year is At 31 December 2014 the balance of visited Russia three times during the current broadly consistent with 2013 in terms of assets held for sale is no longer years audit and members of the Group audit overall coverage of the Group and the number significant to the Group.
We have therefore team in both jurisdictions work together as an of full and specific scope entities.
However removed this as a focus area of our audit.
integrated team throughout the audit process.
we have made some changes in the identity The deterioration of the economic Whilst in Russia, he focused his time on the of components subject to full and specific situation and continued political unrest in significant risks and judgemental areas of the scope audit procedures.
Changes in our the Groups main area of operation has audit.
He attended managements going scope since the 2013 audit include increased increased the potential impact of this risk concern, impairment and significant procedures undertaken on the Groups North on the Groups business.
This has led us estimates and judgements presentations to American operations in response to the to an increased focus on this area.
the Audit Committee where he challenged potential IPO of that part of the business and The impact of foreign exchange is a new management on their assumptions.
He met a reduction in scope of some of the Groups area of focus for the current year in with Russian based members of the Group Russian operations.
Following the removal of response to the significant devaluation of audit team including internal valuation the requirement for separate audited financial the Russian Rouble.
specialists used in the audit.
During the statements in respect of the Russian entities We have also included segmental reporting current years audit he reviewed key working in the current year, we have assessed as a new focus area in response to the papers and met, or held conference calls, their scope solely based on their potential restatement of the Groups Financial with representatives of the component audit impact on the financial results and position Statement disclosures resulting from team for all Russian based full scope of the Group.
changes in internal management reporting.
components to discuss the audit approach and issues arising from their work.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Our assessment of focus areas Group audit we determined the type of work We identified the following risks that had the that needed to be undertaken at each of the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: components by us, as the Group audit team or the allocation of resources in the audit: and by component auditors from other EY global directing the efforts of the engagement team.
network firms operating under our instruction.
This is not a complete list of all the risks Of the 10 specific scope components selected identified in our audit.
audit procedures were performed on five of these directly by the Group audit team.
For the Details of why we identified these issues as components where the work was performed by areas of focus and our audit response are set component auditors, we determined the out in the table on pages 111 to 113.
This is appropriate level of involvement to enable us not a complete list of all the procedures we to determine that sufficient audit evidence had performed in respect of these areas.
The been obtained as a basis for our opinion on arrows in the table indicate whether we the Group as a whole.
consider the financial statement risk associated with this focus area to have During the current years audit cycle visits increased, decreased or stayed the same were undertaken by the Group audit team to compared to 2013. component teams in Russia and Ukraine.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from the work.
The Group audit team visited the component team in the USA in 2013 but not in the current years audit cycle.
For 2014 the main focus of the Group audit team was on the Russian and Ukrainian entities in response to the increased risk of the economic environment in those areas.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements.
110 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Area of focus Our audit approach and conclusion Goodwill and non-current asset impairment Risk Refer to the Group Audit Committee Report on page 79, the estimates and judgments direction: on page 131 and the disclosures of impairment in note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of goodwill was We performed audit procedures on all impairment models relating US$1,541million.
The Group recognised impairment charges in to material cash generating units.
Our audit procedures were performed respect of goodwill, other intangible assets, items of PP&E and mainly by the Group audit team with the exception of certain location other non-current assets during the year of US$540million.
specific inputs to managements models which were assessed by the component teams.
In accordance with IAS 36 management disclosed that in addition to the impairment charge already recognised, a reasonably Our audit procedures included the review of managements possible change in discount rates, sales prices, sales volumes assumptions used in their impairment models.
The assumptions and cost control measures could lead to impairments in other to which the models were most sensitive and most likely to lead CGUs where no impairment is currently recognised.
to further impairments were: We focused on this area due to the significance of the carrying Decreases in steel prices: and value of the assets being assessed, the number and size of recent Increases in production costs.
impairments, the current economic environment in the Groups operating jurisdictions and because the assessment of the We challenged managements assumptions with reference to historical recoverable amount of the Groups Cash Generating Units CGUs data and, where applicable, external benchmarks noting the involves significant judgements about the future results of the assumptions used fell within an acceptable range.
business and the discount rates applied to future cash flow forecasts.
We tested the integrity of models with the assistance of our own In particular we focused our effort on those CGUs with the largest specialists and carried out audit procedures on managements carrying values, those for which an impairment had been sensitivity calculations.
recognised in the year and those with the lowest headroom.
We assessed the historical accuracy of managements budgets and forecasts.
We compared current performance with forecasts, and sought appropriate evidence for any anticipated improvements in major assumptions such as production volumes or cost reductions.
We corroborated previous forecasts with actual data.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in the Group Financial Statements.
In particular we considered the completeness of the disclosures regarding those CGUs with material goodwill balances and where a reasonably possible change in certain variables could lead to impairment.
Going concern Risk Refer to the Group Audit Committee Report on page 79, the Directors report on page 99 direction: and within significant accounting policies on page 123 of the Consolidated Financial Statements The Group is highly geared net debt at 31 December 2014 Since managements going concern model and analysis are prepared US$5,814million, 2013 US$6,534million, has regular debt centrally, audit procedures on this area were performed directly by the repayments and some covenants over a proportion of its debt.
Covenant compliance testing was split between the Group and component teams as appropriate.
Management and the Board prepare a cash flow forecast and undertake sensitivity analysis Base and Pessimistic case of the We discussed the detailed cash flow forecasts prepared by key assumptions to ensure that the Group can operate as a going management in their model and the supporting presentation.
concern for at least 12 months from the date the Financial The main procedures performed on the model and areas where Statements are approved.
we challenged management were as follows: We have assessed the quality of management forecasting by comparing cash flow forecasts for prior periods to actual outcomes: We ensured the consistency of forecasts used in the going concern assessment with those used for impairment calculations: We challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions that had the most material impact.
In challenging these assumptions we took account of actual results, external data and market conditions: We tested the arithmetic integrity of the calculations including those related to managements sensitivities: We also performed our own sensitivity calculations to test the adequacy of the available headroom and, in particular, in relation to covenant compliance.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 Independent Auditors Report To The Members Of EVRAZ PLC continued Area of focus Our audit approach and conclusion We agreed the sources of liquidity and uses of funds to supporting documentation.
We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Group Financial Statements in respect of going concern.
Based on our work on the going concern analysis prepared by management, we agree with the conclusion reached by management that there is currently no material uncertainty in relation to the going concern assumption for the preparation of the Financial Statements.
Political disturbances and economic sanctions Risk Refer to the Group Audit Committee Report on page 80 direction: The current geopolitical situation remains an important area of We inquired of management about the potential impact on financing focus for the Group and our audit.
Continuing escalation of political and the operational activities of the Group in the foreseeable future.
and economic tension between the US, EU and Russia has resulted in an economic slowdown and deterioration of liquidity We investigated existing loan agreements for force majeure clauses to in the banking sectors of Russia.
verify that debt maturities were accurately recorded in the Financial Statements and had not been impacted by the geopolitical situation.
The deterioration in liquidity may impact the Groups ability to obtain finance in the future and therefore cast doubt over the As part of our impairment work we challenged management Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Operational assumptions used in impairment models in respect of Ukrainian and restrictions could impact the profitability of the Groups operations Russian operations.
Areas such as country risk premiums used in and lead to asset impairments.
discount rate calculations and foreign exchange rate forecasts were agreed to third party data where applicable.
There has been an increase in economic sanctions affecting Russian individuals and companies during the year, increasing We discussed, and understood the scope of, the processes the regulatory compliance burden on the Company.
management have to prevent illegal transactions being undertaken with countries subject to sanction or embargo.
We reviewed reports and held The devaluation of the Rouble and Hryvnia during the year has had discussions with a third party advisor engaged by management in a significant impact on the Groups operations and the carrying relation to sanctions compliance.
value of its assets held in Russia and Ukraine.
We have tested exchange gains losses for the period and assessed the We focused on this area because of the potential operational Groups adjustments arising on the translation of foreign operations and financial impact on the Group.
Impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations Risk Refer to the Strategic report on pages 5 to 37 and to the Group Audit Committee Report on page 79 direction: During 2014, the Rouble devalued against the US Dollar, with In addressing this area of focus, audit procedures were performed by a closing rate of RUB 56.3 to the US Dollar as of 31 December the component teams in Russia and Ukraine and the Group 2014, representing a 72% increase in the exchange rate since the engagement team.
The devaluation of the Hryvnia was even more significant representing a 97% increase in the exchange rate since As part of our audit procedures we performed substantive testing the previous year end.
As a result, the translation reserve has on foreign exchange movements at a component level for all the changed by US$1,959million after tax effect.
Russian and Ukrainian full and specific scope entities noting no significant issues.
The devaluation has given rise to significant operating losses of US$1,005million and contributed to losses of $588million We have also performed audit procedures on movements in the on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments in the translation reserve shown in Other Comprehensive Income and the foreign consolidated statement of operations.
exchange impact on balances in the Statement of Financial Position.
Given the significant movements in the Consolidated Financial We have tested exchange gains losses for the period and assessed Statements and impact on the net assets of the Group, the Groups adjustments arising on the translation of foreign operations we consider this to be a key area of focus.
We performed substantive analytical procedures on open swap agreements using forward rates obtained from our internal specialists noting no material differences.
We have read and considered how the impact of the devaluation on the performance and position of the Group is disclosed in the Strategic Report and Financial Statements.
112 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Area of focus Our audit approach and conclusion Changes in reportable segments Risk Refer to the Group Audit Committee Report on page 79 and note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements direction: In the Groups Financial Statements for the year ended In addressing this area of focus audit procedures were performed 31 December 2013 the Group disclosed four operating segments: by the Group engagement team.
Steel production, Mining, Vanadium products and Other operations.
We discussed the rationale for the change in segmental disclosure with In 2014, the management reporting used by the chief operating management and obtained and reviewed management reports used by decision maker for making decisions about resource allocation the Board to make strategic decisions to ensure the presentation of changed to put more emphasis on analysis of the operating results data in such reports was consistent with the new segmental structure.
of the coal segment and operations in North America.
As such, new reportable segments were identified and the comparative We reviewed copies of Board minutes to satisfy ourselves that the segment information has been restated accordingly.
reports had been used by the Board.
Given the significant changes to disclosure included in the We checked the arithmetic accuracy of the disclosures and Consolidated Financial Statements including restatements of prior recalculated the restatement of the prior year data noting no material year disclosures we considered this to be a key area of focus.
What we have audited We have audited the Primary Statements and related notes of EVRAZ plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise: Group Company the Consolidated Statement of Operations, the Consolidated the Separate Statement of Comprehensive Income: Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position the Separate Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Separate Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: and the Separate Statement of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 33. the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of both the Group and Company Financial Statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys Opinion on other matters prescribed Respective responsibilities members, as a body, in accordance with by the Companies Act 2006 of directors and auditor Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken the part of the Directors Remuneration of Directors Responsibilities set out on so that we might state to the companys Report to be audited has been properly page105, the directors are responsible for the members those matters we are required to prepared in accordance with the preparation of the Group Financial Statements state to them in an auditors report and for Companies Act 2006: and and for being satisfied that they give a true and no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the information given in the Strategic fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and permitted by law, we do not accept or Report and the Directors Report for the express an opinion on the Group Financial assume responsibility to anyone other than financial year for which the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable the company and the companys members Statements are prepared is consistent law and International Standards on Auditing as a body, for our audit work, for this report, with the Financial Statements: UK and Ireland.
Those standards require or for the opinions we have formed.
the information given in the Corporate us to comply with the Auditing Practices Governance Statement in the Annual Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 Independent Auditors Report To The Members Of EVRAZ PLC continued the Parent Company Financial Statements Matters on which we are and the part of the Directors required to report by exception Remuneration Report to be audited are not We have nothing to report in respect in agreement with the accounting records of the following: and returns: or certain disclosures of directors Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are remuneration specified by law are not required to report to you if, in our opinion, made: or information in the Annual Report is: we have not received all the information materially inconsistent with the and explanations we require for our audit.
information in the audited Financial a Corporate Governance Statement has Statements: or not been prepared by the company.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our Under the Listing Rules we are required knowledge of the Group acquired in the to review: course of performing our audit: or the directors statement, set out on is otherwise misleading.
page99, in relation to going concern: and In particular, we are required to the part of the Corporate Governance consider whether we have identified any Statement relating to the companys inconsistencies between our knowledge compliance with the nine provisions of the acquired during the audit and the directors UK Corporate Governance Code specified statement included on page 105 of the Annual for our review.
Report that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Ken Williamson Senior statutory auditor Audit Committee which we consider should for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, have been disclosed.
Statutory Auditor London Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 31 March 2015 required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or Notes returns adequate for our audit have not 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the EVRAZ plc web been received from branches not visited site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve by us: or consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
114 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
