100 Financial statements Independent auditors report: Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Experian plc, comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 March 2014: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in total equity and Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Financial statements Independent auditors report: Group financial statements 101 Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Using our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be US$52m, which represents 5% of profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured into five geographical regions, being North America, Latin America, UK and Ireland, Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA and Asia Pacific APAC.
Each region comprises a number of reporting units.
The Group financial statements comprise the financial information of these reporting units and the Groups central functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Across these regions, we identified three reporting units North America, Serasa SA and the United Kingdom that required an audit of their complete financial information due to size alone.
These three reporting units comprise 95% of the Groups profit before tax and 83% of the Groups revenue.
Our audit work at these reporting units, together with procedures at the consolidated Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out in the corporate governance report.
102 Financial statements Independent auditors report: Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Tax uncertain tax positions and tax planning We obtained an understanding of the Groups tax strategy to identify tax The Group is subject to several tax regimes owing to the risks relating to business and legislative developments.
geographical diversity of its businesses.
We recalculated managements valuations of tax provisions and determined The directors are required to exercise significant judgement in whether the calculations were in line with the Groups tax policies and had determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of been applied consistently.
potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions.
The most We challenged the key underlying assumptions, particularly in Brazil and the significant of these relate to Brazil and the UK.
UK, and in territories with new cross-border tax structures, having due regard Refer also to notes 16 and 35 to the financial statements.
for ongoing correspondence between the Group and local tax authorities.
We also assessed the recoverability of deferred tax assets by evaluating forecasts of future profits.
Litigation We understood, assessed and tested managements controls in respect of The Group is subject to a large number of claims and class litigation at the Group and local level.
We discussed the nature and status actions relating to the disclosure and use of credit scores in of these exposures with in-house and external legal counsel.
We obtained Brazil which could have a significant impact on the results if the letters from the Groups external legal counsel to corroborate managements potential exposures were to materialise.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the judgement when determining whether, and how much, to financial statements and the completeness of disclosures in respect of provide for these matters.
We focused on this area due to the magnitude of potential exposures, and the inherent complexity and judgement in whether to provide for or disclose certain exposures.
Refer also to note 45 to the financial statements.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment We tested and challenged the directors cash flow forecasts, and We focused on this area because goodwill and intangible the process by which they were drawn up, including comparing them to asset balances are material and there is significant the latest Board-approved plans from which forecasts are derived, and judgement involved in the assumptions underpinning the testing the underlying calculations.
cash flow forecasts used by the directors to support their We challenged: carrying amounts.
the directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts Refer also to note 20 to the financial statements.
by comparing them to historical results and economic forecasts: the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and comparable organisations: and the short-term forecasted profit margins for the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions.
We also assessed the appropriateness and completeness of disclosures in respect of these sensitivities.
Acquisition accounting We tested the valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired, particularly those On 1 October 2013, the Group acquired The 41st Parameter, Inc. that are most reliant on judgement, notably intangible assets and related and on 21 November 2013 the Group acquired Passport Health deferred tax.
For the valuation exercise we examined the directors cash flow Communications, Inc.
There is judgement around the valuation forecasts for the acquired businesses, comparing them to Board-approved of the intangible assets acquired, which directly impacts the plans and challenging the underlying assumptions mainly being the discount valuation of the goodwill recognised.
rates used and the remaining useful economic lives applied to the intangible assets, and we compared the forecasts against historical performance of the We focused on this area because it required the directors acquired component businesses.
to exercise a significant level of judgement.
Refer also to note 40 to the financial statements.
Financial statements Independent auditors report: Group financial statements 103 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant systems and tested the internal controls over the ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue accuracy, existence and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
recognition because of pressure management may feel to We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual achieve the planned results.
or irregular items and determine their compliance with Group revenue recognition policies.
Experian has multiple revenue streams with differing financial characteristics that result in different recognition criteria and We read significant customer agreements and tested the accounting for audit procedures.
contractual milestones against the analysis of contract positions that management maintains.
We focused on the timing of the recognition of revenue especially around multi-element contracts, deferred revenue and other non-standard contract terms.
Refer also to note 5 p to the financial statements.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries, including consolidation entries, and incorporated elements of unpredictability in the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures.
Going concern The directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 3 of the UK Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement in relation to going concern, set out in the directors report, required for UK registered companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as if the Company were a UK registered company.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance report Under the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority we are required to review the part of the corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
104 Financial statements Independent auditors report: Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc continued As required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors have stated that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
As required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the annual report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Experian plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Ranjan Sriskandan For and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor London, United Kingdom 6 May 2014
