Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Independent Auditors Report to the members of Fenner PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements financial statements, which are prepared by Fenner PLC, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 August 2014: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report 2014 Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 2.4 million, being 5% of the Groups consolidated profit before taxation and exceptional items.
We excluded the exceptional items so as to eliminate one-off factors and arrive at a materiality level that is an appropriate and consistent basis for our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured along two business segments, being Engineered Conveyor Solutions and Advanced Engineered Products.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 15 territories made up of 166 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the Group's 166 reporting units, we identified 114 that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Specified audit procedures over certain balances were performed at a further 4 reporting units, while further testing was performed at the Group level, in particular in the areas of pensions, provisions, intangible assets and taxation.
As a result, audit procedures were performed over reporting units comprising 84% of the Groups consolidated profit before taxation and exceptional items.
This gave us the evidence we needed to express our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 48 to 49.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 65 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Fenner PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We focused on this area due to the size of goodwill and We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process Valuation of goodwill and other intangible asset balances and because the directors by which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest intangible assets assessment of the carrying value of the Groups cash Board approved budgets and testing the underlying calculations.
acquired generating units CGUs involves subjective judgements We challenged: about the future results of the relevant parts of the business.
the directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical results and longThe directors booked an impairment charge of 24.0m.
We term growth forecasts for the economies in which the CGUs needed to obtain evidence relating to this write off and also operate: and for the remaining 122.2m of goodwill and 84.4m of the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company intangible assets acquired.
Refer also to notes 7 and 14 to and comparable organisations.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key driver of the cash flow forecasts, being projected operating profit growth in the relevant CGUs.
Having ascertained the extent of change in the projected operating profit that would be required for the goodwill to be further impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement arising.
Completeness and We focused on this area because for certain obligations We read the sale and purchase agreements relating to the acquired within deferred consideration on acquisitions, payments businesses to understand the contingent consideration arrangements.
accuracy of provisions for are contingent upon the future performance of the We evaluated the contingent consideration calculations produced by contingent consideration acquired businesses.
This is a subjective estimate based the Group, which included both actual and forecast results within on acquisitions on financial forecasts about the future performance of those calculations, by: those acquired businesses.
comparing these forecasts to the latest Board approved budgets: The directors reduced their estimate of the amount that and would ultimately be payable by 10.7m.
We needed to challenging the key assumptions driving the projected financial obtain evidence for the completeness of the remaining performance within them by focusing on the prospects for the 2.5m of contingent deferred consideration provisions.
acquired businesses and the industry, together with assessing Refer also to note 7 to the Group financial statements.
the historical accuracy of forecasts for previous acquisitions compared to actual performance.
Valuation of defined We focused on this area because the Group operates We evaluated and challenged the reasonableness of the key several defined benefit pension scheme arrangements assumptions including the discount rate and inflation rate by making benefit pension and the valuation of each schemes liability is sensitive to our own independent assessment based on relevant market data and scheme deficit a number of judgemental assumptions made by the then challenged the Group and their advisors on the differences directors, in particular the discount rate and inflation between our assumptions and theirs to understand why any rate.
Small changes in these key assumptions could have differences arose.
a material impact on the financial statements.
Refer also to note 27 to the Group financial statements.
We also assessed whether the methods used to determine the key assumptions remained appropriate and had been consistently applied year-on-year, and checked that there were no significant changes in approach.
Recognition of We focused on this area because of the magnitude of We evaluated if the costs classified as exceptional were directly these costs and because there is management attributable to the business closures and were non-recurring in exceptional restructuring judgement involved in deciding which costs should be nature.
We also confirmed that the closures had been announced costs treated as exceptional under the Group's accounting prior to 31 August 2014. policy.
We tested the amounts recognised as exceptional restructuring costs Restructuring costs of 5.9m have been recognised as to supporting evidence by checking a sample of redundancy payments exceptional, principally relating to the closure of Fenner to payroll records and a sample of termination notices and loss Precision Buffalo and Hallite Brazil.
Such costs include provisions to committed contractual arrangements.
We evaluated the redundancy payments, loss provisions for onerous judgements undertaken to impair the carrying value of assets with contracts, impairment of assets and other directly consideration to the future plans for the businesses and planned attributable site closure costs.
Refer also to note 7 to the activity post year end.
Fraud in revenue ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in Our testing of revenue transactions to assess whether a sale had revenue recognition because of the pressure occurred or a service had been provided focussed on understanding recognition management may feel to achieve the planned results.
whether cash had been received and the risks and rewards of Because of this we focussed on the risk that revenue may ownership had transferred to the customer.
This testing was have been recognised for transactions that had not performed through a combination of Computer Assisted Audit occurred across all revenue streams.
Techniques, substantive manual testing over a sample of sales to gain comfort that a valid transaction had taken place and testing to despatch documentation to ensure revenue had been recognised in the correct period.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including Risk of management the arrangements for staff to whistleblow inappropriate actions, and override of internal interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit controls function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested manual journal entries to determine that the adjustments made were appropriate.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 66 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation and that the directors intend it to do so for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the parent companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 54 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 48 to 49, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Fenner PLC for the year ended 31 August 2014 and on the information in the Board Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Richard Bunter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Hull 11 November 2014 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 67
