Fidessa group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc only Opinion and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Fidessa group plc for the year ended 31st December 2014 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the group and parent company balance sheets, the group and parent company cash flow statements, the group and parent company statements of changes in equity and related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatements that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Revenue recognition 275.0 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2d and notes to the consolidated financial statements note 5.
The risk The group provides its products and services to customers in bundled packages.
These packages may contain two or more of the following elements: software rental, consultancy services, data charges and connectivity services.
The allocation of revenue between the different elements of a bundled package can require significant judgement.
Consultancy services may be provided on a fixed price basis and such services are recognised based on the percentage of completion POC.
Determining the POC of the contract, which may include making estimates of cost contingencies, requires significant judgement.
Where the products or services are being deployed at multiple customer sites, judgement is required to determine whether the group has fulfilled its obligations associated with each element.
The allocation of total revenue to the individual contract deliverables and the need to assess the timing of recognition for each element presents a risk of accelerated or delayed recognition of revenue.
Our response Our audit procedures included: We critically assessed the allocation of revenue to individual contract deliverables by selecting a sample of significant contracts and comparing the fair value of the deployment and consultancy revenue streams.
For fixed price consultancy services which were not completed at the balance sheet date, we assessed the calculation of the stage of completion.
This included assessing the inputs used to determine the amount of costs incurred to date and challenging the assessment of forecast costs to complete.
Where contingencies were included in the calculation of costs to complete, we inspected and critically assessed the rationale for the basis for their calculation with the directors and project managers who are responsible for delivering the projects.
We also evaluated the historical accuracy of the utilisation of contingencies.
Fidessa group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc only continued For contracts where software, connectivity and market data revenue has been recognised during the year, our work focused on assessing whether the internal control process regarding approval of contractual terms had been followed.
Our work also focused on assessing whether the group has obtained sufficient evidence that it has fulfilled the relevant obligations under the deployment phase of the contract.
For a sample of significant contracts we assessed whether the group has obtained customer acceptance that the relevant deployment services have been completed and that it is appropriate to recognise revenue on the other elements of the contract.
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of amounts recognised as revenue during the period or deferred at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill 44.9 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2j and notes to the consolidated financial statements note 13.
The risk There is a risk of irrecoverability of goodwill, because of the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which form the basis for the assessment of the goodwill recoverability.
Historical valuations identified that there was significant sensitivity to changes in forecast operating margin and the ability of the buy-side business to achieve its medium-term revenue growth rates.
Our response Our audit procedures included testing of the budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and assessing the integrity of the discounted cash flow model.
We considered the historical accuracy of key assumptions by comparing the previous estimates of revenue and cost growth to the actual amounts achieved.
We challenged the assumptions used, including the inputs and methodology to determine the discount rate which drives the present value of projected cash flows.
Our work included comparing the assumptions made in compiling the discount rate to market data.
We sensitised key assumptions, including revenue growth rate and the discount factor, to assess whether the cash flow forecast was excessively conservative or optimistic.
We considered whether the disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Capitalisation of development costs 42.7 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2j and notes to the consolidated financial statements note 13.
The risk The group capitalises certain costs incurred on the development of its software products.
In order to determine the amount of cost that should be capitalised, being costs incurred through employing software developers, the group must assess whether the cost meets the capitalisation criteria set out in the accounting standard.
The group must also apply judgement in determining whether the future cash flows expected to be derived from the sale of its products support the recoverability of the capitalised amounts.
Our response Our audit procedures included evaluating the effectiveness of controls in place to separately identify the time on development activities which is categorised as meeting the capitalisation criteria set out by accounting standards.
On a selection basis, we agreed capitalised amounts to supporting documentation including timesheet data.
We evaluated the groups assessment that the expected future cash flows derived from the sale of the products or services would support the capitalised amounts.
This was evaluated in two primary ways: we evaluated whether any recently launched products or those previously under development had been discontinued and we evaluated the cash flows to be generated from existing contracts along with those from anticipated sales.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of research and development costs.
Fidessa group plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Income tax expense 10.0 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2h and notes to the consolidated financial statements note 9.
The risk Tax provisions require the group to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due to the group carrying out contracts across a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other international tax legislation and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with tax authorities.
Our response Our audit procedures included the use of our own international and local tax specialists to assess the tax positions.
Our specialists also considered correspondence with the relevant tax authorities to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.0 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before income tax of which it represents 5.1%.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.1 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believed warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups four reporting components, we subjected three to audits for group reporting purposes.
These were carried out in the UK, North America and Hong Kong components.
The UK audit team performed the work in the UK and North America and the work in Hong Kong was completed by a component auditor.
These audits covered 94% of total revenue: 90% of profit before taxation: and 95% of total assets.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components were all performed to local materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These local materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.2 million to 1.5 million.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component auditor in Hong Kong.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be covered by this audit which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
Telephone meetings were held with the auditor in Hong Kong.
On these calls the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited, from the section titled Directors remuneration policy to Directors remuneration for the year commencing 1st January 2015 inclusive, has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and Directors and corporate governance report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Fidessa group plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc only continued 5 We have nothing to report to you in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committees report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement in relation to going concern: the part of the corporate governance report relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Michael Harper Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 Forest Gate Brighton Road Crawley RH11 9PT 13th February 2015
