Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Opinion on financial statements of FirstGroup plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 36, the parent company balance sheet, and the related notes to the parent company balance sheet 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Directors and corporate governance report on page 69 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
FirstGroup 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We assessed managements assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and The annual impairment test is a complex process intangible assets, described in note 12 to the financial statements, specifically including requiring significant management judgment and is the cash flow projections, discount rates and growth rates applied.
based on assumptions about future profitability.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical trading The Cash Generating Unit CGU most sensitive to performance, using our valuation specialists to challenge the discount rates applied and variation in assumptions is the First Student CGU through review of underlying calculations and comparison of inputs to market data.
In as disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements.
addition we have benchmarked key assumptions such as growth rates and discount rates to external macro-economic and market data.
We have re-run the sensitivities applied by management and considered their reasonableness.
Valuation and completeness of third party claims We worked with our own actuarial experts to test the range of estimates determined by and associated provisions and assets management and their external actuary considering the methodologies employed, The valuation and completeness of both legal and comparing assumptions used to the Groups historical experience.
We independently self-insurance provisions are a source of estimation developed an actuarial calculation and compared the provision recorded to the actuarial uncertainty, which require managements best range calculated by the external actuary.
estimate in assessing the likeliness and valuation of We also tested a sample of the underlying data used to develop the provision for settlement and where applicable the discount rate completeness and accuracy and challenged the appropriateness of the discount rate applied to the expected settlement values.
used through comparison to previous years and those used by similar entities.
As part of our assessment of legal provisions, we obtained confirmations from internal and independent external legal counsel.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities We worked with our own actuarial experts to test the assumptions used by management The Group operates in a labour intensive industry in valuing the Groups defined benefit pension scheme liabilities such as the discount rate, with large membership to a number of defined inflation and mortality rate, performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions and benefit pension schemes.
The gross pension compared them to industry benchmarks and prior years rates adopted.
liabilities as disclosed in note 35 to the financial statements are materially sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions adopted.
Management exercise significant judgment when determining those assumptions, particularly the discount rate, inflation and mortality rates.
Revenue recognition including contract accounting We have assessed the judgments taken by management in determining the valuation and The Group operates a number of long term contracts timing of revenue recognition and associated deferred and accrued income with reference including UK rail franchises and certain North to the underlying contract terms and applicable accounting standards.
American passenger and service contracts.
We considered the completeness of onerous contract provisions by challenging profit Management exercise judgment in determining the forecasts prepared by management with reference to the historical trading performance appropriate timing and valuation of revenue and forecasting accuracy.
recognised, valuation of associated deferred and accrued income and the evaluation of the overall profitability of these contracts.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 64 of the Directors and corporate governance report.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 5.6m, which is 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit as defined on page 94 to the financial statements, and below 1% of equity.
The adjusted pre-tax profit measure has been used to exclude the volatility of non-recurring items.
In addition, the exclusion of amortisation and the income statement effect of ineffective and unhedged financial derivative valuation is consistent with the key measure used by the Group for internal and external reporting purposes.
This measure has been used to facilitate a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 100,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
FirstGroup 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the four UK Bus operating regions, four significant Train Operating Companies, the operations in North America and the Group, Rail Division and Bus Division corporate head office functions as well as the UK Shared Service Centre.
These locations were subject to full audit procedures.
First Rail Holdings was subject to specified audit procedures on rail franchise bid costs based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at that location.
The locations, subject to full audit procedures, represent the principal business units and account for 89.2% of the Groups net assets, 98.0% of the Groups revenue and 99.7% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual location which was lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We include all component audit teams in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and a senior member of the Group audit team has visited all locations to review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
FirstGroup 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 21 May 2014 FirstGroup 152 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
