I NDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALENT PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit setting out the basis of the deferred tax balance 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements isunmodified andthelevel of estimation involved, as well as the We have audited the financial statements of Alent plc for appropriateness of disclosing the asset recognition the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the within exceptional tax items.
Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of cash Provisions for disposal, closure and litigation liabilities flows, the Group and parent company balance sheets, 24.3m the Group statement of changes in equity and related Refer to page 58 Audit Committee statement, notes.
In our opinion: page92 ctritical judgements and pages 124 to 125 financial disclosures the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs The Risk: The completeness and valuation of the as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the amounts provided for legal and environmental claims year then ended: are inherently judgemental due to the degree of uncertainty involved.
Following the settlement of two the Group financial statements have been properly legal claims after the balance sheet date, the risk is prepared in accordance with International Financial thatthe amount provided in respect of managements Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: current best estimate of the disposal and closure costs the parent company financial statements have been of17.5m in respect of environmental obligations is over properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting or understated, which could have a material impact Standards: and onthe Groups financial position and results for the year.
the financial statements have been prepared in Our Response: In this area our audit procedures accordance with the requirements of the Companies included inspecting, at the reporting component level, Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial the claims reporting received from those reporting statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
components, to assess whether all current cases had been appropriately considered by the Directors of the 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Group.
In addition we met in-house legal counsel and In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial management responsible for material claims to discuss statements the risks of material misstatement that had the nature of ongoing claims legal and other and thegreatest effect on our audit were as follows: analysed external evidence such as correspondence from regulators and or reports from the Groups external Recognition of US deferred tax assets 4.0m advisers lawyers to challenge the basis of provisions Refer to page 58 Audit Committee statement, page 93 recorded.
In addition we assessed the adequacy of the critical judgements and page 100 financialdisclosures Groups disclosures in respect of the description of the claims provided and the level of estimation involved in The Risk: The amount of deferred tax assets that it is arriving at the provision.
appropriate to be recognised in respect of losses is based on the judgement in respect of the timing and 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the quantum of forecast future taxable profits and the ability scope of our audit of the Groups US components to offset any of its The materiality for the financial statements as a whole accumulated losses against these expected profits.
wasset at 4 million, determined with reference to a Therisk is that the amount of the deferred tax asset is benchmark of Group profit before taxation, of 73.4 million, over or under stated given the inherent uncertainty in of which it represents 5.4%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and Our Response: In this area, our audit procedures uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 0.3 included, using our own tax specialists to assist us in million, in addition to other identified misstatements that assessing and challenging the assumptions and warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
judgements made by the Directors.
We compared the assumptions used in the taxable profit forecasts for the Of the Groups 103 reporting components, audits for relevant components in the US to the Groups long term Group reporting purposes were performed by component forecasts for consistency.
We critically assessed the auditors at 11 key reporting components in China, assumptions and judgements made by the Directors by Germany, Hong Kong, India, Netherlands and Taiwan considering the historical accuracy of forecasts and, andby the Group audit team for the United Kingdom.
based on our knowledge of the client and the industry in Inaddition, specified audit procedures over the principal which it operates, the sensitivities of the profit forecasts assets, liabilities, income and expense items were and our assessment of the risk of management bias.
We performed by component auditors over six components also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures inBrazil, the United States of America and Hungary.
84 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Together, these Group procedures covered 71% of total Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Group revenue comprising: 42% audits, 29% specified to you if, in our opinion: audit procedures : 85% of the total profits and losses adequate accounting records have not been kept by the before taxation that made up Group profit before parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have taxation 49% audits, 36% specified audit procedures : not been received from branches not visited by us: or and 83% of total Group assets 72% audits, 11% specified audit procedures.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are The remaining 29% of revenue, 15% of the total profits not in agreement with the accounting records and andlosses before taxation and 17% of total Group assets returns: or isrepresented by more than 86 reporting components around the world.
None of these reporting components certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified represented more than 3% of revenue, profit before tax or by law are not made: or total Group assets.
For these components, we performed we have not received all the information and analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our explanations we require for our audit.
assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Local statutory audits are Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: performed in over 20 of these components, but generally the Directors statement, set out on page 80, in relation these are completed after the date of this report.
to going concern: and The Group audit team instructed component auditors as the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on to the significant risks to be covered, including the relevant pages 45 relating to the companys compliance with risks detailed above and the information to be reported theten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance back.
The Group audit team approved the component Code specified for our review.
materialities, which ranged from 0.2 million to 3 million having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the We have nothing to report in respect of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team visited the United States and Scope and responsibilities attended the Dutch component audit close meeting.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Telephone conference meetings were also held with all Responsibilities set out on page 83, the Directors are the audit teams in all locations in scope for Group responsible for the preparation of the financial statements reporting purposes where audit close meetings were and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Adescription of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Councils website at www.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified This report is made solely to the Companys members as In our opinion: abody and is subject to important explanations and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on audited has been properly prepared in accordance ourwebsite at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, with the Companies Act 2006: and which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the the information given in the Strategic Report and the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and Directors Report for the financial year for which the the basis of our opinions.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on MICHAEL MALONEY Senior Statutory Auditor which we are required to report by exception For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to Chartered Accountants you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our 1 5 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL audit, we have identified other information in the Annual 2 March 2015 Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between theknowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Statement does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the AuditCommittee.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 85
