Independent Auditors Report to the members of Fresnillo plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Fresnillo plc as at 31 December 2014 and for the year then ended which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flow: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 34 of the Group financial statements and 1 to 19 of the Parent Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 155, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we readall the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and toidentify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course ofperforming the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
| 158 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Our application of materiality We consider profit before tax to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Group: however, we believe that members focus on the results before the remeasurements of the Silverstream contract.
We, therefore, determined materiality with reference to pre-Silverstream revaluation effect profit before tax.
We calculated materiality at the planning stage of our audit and updated it based on actual full-year results which reflected the effect of foreign exchange losses at the year end and the write-off of property, plant and equipment at Soledad-Dipolos.
Final materiality was US$8.7 million 2013: US$23.6 million, which is 5% of profit before tax and before the effects of the Silverstream revaluation 2013: 5%.
The decrease in materiality from prior year reflects the decrease in commodity prices, the effects of foreign exchange rates, particularly on indirect taxation balances, and the write off of assets at Soledad-Dipolos.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75% of materiality 2013: 75%, namely US$6.5 million 2013: US$17.7 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$0.4 million 2013: US$1.2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk and our evaluation of materiality determined our audit strategy and scope.
The factors that we considered in our assessment included the following: financial significance, specific risks, effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring activities, including entity-level controls and recent internal audit findings.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we focused our Group audit scope on eight components 2013: eight which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Five of these were subject to a full scope audit 2013: five and accounted for 77% of the Groups profit before tax 2013: 68% and 70% of the Groups net assets 2013: 71%.
The remaining three were subject to an audit of specific account balances Specific Scope Components, and accounted for 19% of the Groups profit before tax 2013: 19% and 27% of the Groups net assets 2013: 25%.
The extent of audit work on Specific Scope Components was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at that component.
For the remaining components, we performed analytical procedures and other procedures to confirm that there was no residual risk of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality assigned to components was US$1.3 million to US$3.6 million 2013: US$5.1 million to US$14.0 million.
The Groups significant operations are in Mexico.
All of the components are audited by one local team under our direct supervision.
We, including the senior statutory auditor, visited the local team during all stages of the audit, participated in discussions on fraud and error and directed the approach and execution of the work of the local team, focusing on areas with higher inherent risk.
We, including the senior statutory auditor, reviewed key working papers including but not limited to the risk areas described below.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 159 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Fresnillo plc Risks of material misstatement We discuss below the risks of material misstatement which had the greatest effect on the audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: anddirecting the efforts of the engagement team and our response to those risks.
The Audit Committees response to these risks is set out in the AuditCommittees Report on pages 129-141.
The following table sets out the risks of material misstatement that have been most significantly impacted by the current macroeconomic environment, specifically by the precious metals price volatility and the resulting uncertainty over future price levels.
Risk of material misstatement Our audit response Incorrect going concern assessment The recent volatility and decline in spot and forward precious metal We analysed managements report to gain an understanding of the prices may create doubt about the Groups and parent Companys ability inputs and process underpinning the cash flow model prepared for the to continue as a going concern.
purpose of the going concern assessment.
We assessed the budgeting process by walking through the conversion The Group and Parent Company financial statements were prepared of reserves and resources data into mine plans and production figures onagoing concern basis.
Managements statement in respect of going and by comparing actual realised cost levels to budgeted cost concern is set out in section Audit Committee Report on page 135 of the assumptions.
We verified that the cash flow model accurately reflects the approved 2015 budget and that the assumptions underpinning the 2016 cash flows are consistent with those in the 2015 budget.
We challenged the external inputs and assumptions within the going concern model by comparing them to assumptions and estimates used elsewhere in the preparation of the financial statements and benchmarking them against market observable external data.
We challenged the sensitivities and stress testing that management performed on the going concern forecast.
We assessed the possible mitigating actions identified by management in the event that actual cash flows are below forecast.
Inappropriate assessment of impairment of mining assets The assessment of the recoverable amount of mining assets requires We, including our financial modelling experts, have examined the estimation and assumptions about future production levels and costs valuation models that underpin managements assessment of aswell as external inputs such as commodity prices, discount rates, impairment in respect of the Groups mining assets.
We ensured that the methodology used within the models was Changes to assumptions could lead to material changes in the estimated compliant with IFRS requirements.
We verified that mine plans used as the basis of the valuation models are consistent with the reserves and resources estimate.
Other than the write-off of property, plant and equipment arising from landdisputes described below, there was no impairment of mining assets We challenged the inputs and key assumptions in the models, in recognised in the current year.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of particular price, costs, and discount rate, through a comparison with mining assets to reasonable possible changes to price assumptions is set external sources of market data, approved budgets, and with other out in note 14 of the Group financial statements.
areas within the Group financial statements.
Inappropriate mineral reserves and resources estimation The estimation of mineral reserves and resources is included in We assessed the professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities managements significant estimates and assumptions.
of the expert engaged by the Group to audit reserves and resources estimates and ensured that the scope of the work undertaken by the The determination of mineral reserves and resources requires significant expert was appropriate.
estimate with regard to future characteristics of mineral ore. We read the report of the external expert and gained an understanding Reserves and resources are an input to depletion, depreciation, of the changes in reserves and resources estimates in the year.
amortisation, decommissioning provisions and impairment estimates.
Reserves and resources also directly impact the production levels We assessed the reasonableness of the estimation method applied assumed in the budget that forms the basis for the assessment bymanagement to arrive at the price at which the ore cut-off grade ofgoingconcern.
Additionally, changes in reserves and resources, although not We ensured that this price was aligned to price assumptions applied valueddirectly in the Group financial statements, can impact inother areas of the business and external benchmarks.
We ensured that the reserves and resources estimates have been correctly applied to the relevant areas of the Group financial statements The unaudited reserves and resources tables are presented on pages including depletion, depreciation, amortisation and decommissioning 249-253, after the notes to the Parent Company financial statements.
Our procedures in respect of impairment estimates and the going concern assumption are discussed earlier.
| 160 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Other risks of material misstatement which had the greatest effect on the audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team are set out below.
Risk of material misstatement Our audit response Inaccuracies in the recognition and disclosure of related party transactions, including inappropriate revenue recognition A significant amount of revenue and expenses in the Group financial We evaluated the appropriateness of managements process for statements is as a result of transactions with related parties, including identifying and recording related party transactions.
the sale of virtually all the Groups products to the Met-Mex refinery, We read contracts and agreements with related parties to understand anIndustrias Peoles company.
the nature of the transactions.
Related party relationships, particularly those not at arms length terms, Throughout the performance of our audit procedures, we remained may affect assessments of the Groups operations.
alert for any related party transactions outside the normal course There is a risk that these relationships could be taken advantage of to ofbusiness.
manipulate earnings, either through temporary changes in the level of We compared actual results against detailed expectations of income costs charged to Fresnillo, or by allowing the recording of revenues for statement line items impacted by related party transactions to products not delivered or in the wrong period.
corroborate that these were not manipulated through related Revenue is initially measured on a provisional basis using managements partyrelationships.
best estimates of the contained metal.
We performed revenue cut-off testing and evaluated the appropriateness of the application of provisional pricing at year-end.
Related party transactions are disclosed in note 30 of the Group financial statements.
We verified that related party disclosures in the financial statements are complete and consistent with the knowledge we gained through the performance of our audit procedures.
Inaccuracies in the disclosures, provisions and asset values arising from litigation and land disputes Litigation and claims, including land disputes, can give rise to uncertainty We evaluated managements assessment of the litigation and around the Groups ability to freely realise the benefits of its assets and claimsand considered the requirement for any provision and may give rise to asset impairment.
The assessment of the appropriate level of legal provisions and narrative We challenged managements assessment of the likelihood that further disclosures in the accounts requires judgements about the legal economic benefits will flow from the use of the assets impacted by land outcome of claims and estimates of costs.
disputes and of indicators of impairment in respect of those assets.
We challenged management in respect of the appropriateness and Contingencies in respect of litigation and land disputes are disclosed in completeness of the write off of property, plant and equipment.
note29 to the Group financial statements.
Our procedures included obtaining independent legal confirmation The write-off of property, plant and equipment is disclosed in note 10 of the letters from the Groups external lawyers handling these issues, holding Group financial statements.
discussions with management and the Groups internal lawyers, examining underlying discounted cash flow models and analysing pertinent correspondence between the involved parties.
Inappropriate valuation of the Silverstream contract The valuation of the Silverstream contract uses a discounted cash flow With the support from our valuation experts, we evaluated the valuation model requiring significant judgement and estimation and numerous model used by the Company to determine the fair value of the assumptions.
Very small changes to assumptions lead to potentially very Silverstream contract.
material changes in the value of the contract.
We interviewed the Sabinas mine geologist, who we consider to be an Details of the revaluation of the Silverstream contract are disclosed in expert, in order to understand the assumptions used in the estimation note 16 of the Group financial statements.
We assessed the experts professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities.
We verified that the mine plan is consistent with the reserves and resources estimate.
We challenged managements estimations and judgement with regard to inputs and key assumptions to the model through a comparison to market data and an analysis of the consistency in use of assumptions within other areas of the business.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 161 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Fresnillo plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing ouraudit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 155 in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Nick Gomer Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 3 March 2015 | 162 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
