Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of G4S plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 99 to 164.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Revenue recognition and related provisions on UK Government and other contracts Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report, page 108 accounting policy and page 114 financial disclosures.
The risk The group delivers outsourcing services that may be governed by unique and complex contractual arrangements.
There is a heightened risk that billing and revenue recognition on these contracts are not in accordance with contractual entitlements and therefore provisions may be required for refunds due.
There is a further risk that the provisions for refunds are not appropriately disclosed and presented.
Many of the outsourcing arrangements are contracts of more than one year, and where such contracts are forecast to be loss making, it would be necessary to recognise a provision for future losses.
The identification of potential loss making contracts, and measurement of any related provision, requires significant judgement and there is a risk that provisions are not appropriately estimated.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included testing the revenue, billing and contract review process, on complex and significant contracts in order to critically assess risks which might lead to revenue recognition issues, and comparing the contractual terms of the relevant agreements to the accounting treatment adopted.
We made inquiries with contract managers and inspected customer correspondence to identify, investigate and evaluate any areas of dispute or subjectivity within contracts and related billing.
We also tested the recovery of significant overdue receivables, taking into account the ageing of receivables and comparing any provision to recovery levels post year end.
We also critically assessed significant accrued unbilled revenue balances and tested these against the contractual entitlement and, where relevant, post year-end billing.
We evaluated the process to identify potentially loss making contracts, taking into account our knowledge of those contracts, and the assessment of onerous contract provisions required, including evaluating and challenging future cash flow forecasts and performance improvement plans.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of the judgments taken regarding revenue recognition, provisions arising from contracts disputes and provisions for loss making contracts.
Recoverable value of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report, page 105 accounting policy and page 125 financial disclosures.
The risk The group has 2.1 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Although the majority of this relates to business units where the carrying value is exceeded by the calculated value in use by a significant margin, in the current economic environment there is a risk of impairment related to particular business units within the Group.
The estimation of the recoverable amount of cash generating units requires significant judgement in relation to the appropriate discount rates, growth rates, terminal values, forecast cash flows and, where the fair value less costs to sell approach is used, the appropriate market valuation multiple.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included challenging the forecast earnings and cash flows over the three year forecast period by comparison to historical results and business plans and by seeking explanations for any assumed trends and growth rates.
We also challenged the discount rates and terminal values and, where a fair value less costs to sell approach is used, challenged the valuation multiples employed compared to multiples achieved on disposal transactions elsewhere in the Group and by reference to other companies in the sector.
We compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data.
Our valuation specialists assisted in the challenge of key input assumptions in the valuation model for the more material cash generating units and those with greatest risk of impairment of goodwill.
We challenged the Groups sensitivities to help us assess whether the key assumptions and drivers considered are correctly identified.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the groups aggregate recoverable amount by comparing it to the groups market capitalisation.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures on goodwill impairments see note 18 and considered whether the sensitivity analysis provided properly reflects the risks inherent within the estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill.
96 96 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Financial statements Taxation exposures and provisions Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report, pages 109 accounting policy and page 120 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group is required to make estimates of tax provisions in jurisdictions and or circumstances where the application of the tax rules is complex, uncertain and in some cases inconsistent.
Our response Our audit procedures included, consideration of each significant exposure on a case by case basis taking into account our understanding of the facts, any specific advice the Group has received, past experience and any relevant observations of our tax specialists.
Using this information we conducted a critical assessment of the Groups judgement as to the provision required.
We have also evaluated the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the tax provisions and contingencies in note 34 and the level of estimation uncertainty in the tax provisions in note 4.
Risk of management override of internal controls Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report.
The risk The fide-centralised structure of the group and the manual nature of many accounting entries means there is a higher risk of management override of financial controls.
There is also a risk of management bias within judgements and estimates including those related to the other risks discussed in this report.
The application of management override or biased judgements could be influenced by targets on which bonuses are paid which could be significant to the relevant individuals.
This risk affects all areas of the financial statements.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included extending the scope of our audit to include businesses where we see a risk of management bias or override of controls.
We performed testing on manual journals within all in-scope businesses, performed testing on the group consolidation system, identifying and testing significant unusual transactions and assessing indications of management bias in judgements and estimates.
This work was performed with assistance from our Forensic Accounting specialists.
Presentation of the income statement Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report, page 103 accounting policy and page 99 financial disclosures.
The risk In order to give better understanding of the underlying performance of the business, the directors have presented a view of the underlying results of the group, with separate disclosure of specific items.
There is a risk that items included within restructuring costs and specific items are not in accordance with clearly disclosed group accounting policies, or that the reversal of any items previously taken through these categories have not been correctly identified, and therefore the underlying result is misstated.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included providing detailed instructions to all in-scope audit teams on the definitions of items that can be included within these income statement categories to assist them in their assessment of specific items and restructuring costs identified in their components.
We considered and challenged the work of the group finance team in reviewing with the regional and local finance teams the basis of any specific items and restructuring costs.
In doing so we assessed the appropriateness, by reference to the group accounting policies, of the individual items presented within these categories and therefore excluded from underlying results at both the local and group levels.
In addition we critically assessed the accuracy and presentation of the identified specific items taking into account their group accounting policy and accounting standards.
Also, we have tested managements process for identifying and tracking the current year reversal of any prior year specific items, or utilisation of or adjustment to related provisions, to identify whether these have been appropriately presented in the current year income statement.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the items included within restructuring costs and specific items in note 8 and the related accounting policies for these categories on page 103 and on page 107.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 10m, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax normalised to exclude specific items and restructuring costs note 8, and goodwill impairment note 18.
Materiality represents 4.3% of group profit before tax adjusted for these items.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 123 reporting components, we subjected 68 to audits for group reporting purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the groups results: % of the total profits and losses that made up Number of components Group revenue group profit before tax Group total assets Audit for group reporting purposes 68 90% 76% 81% Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 9797 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc only continued For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.05m to 6m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 67 of the 68 components was performed by components auditors and the rest by the group audit team.
The Group audit team visited or held telephone conference meetings with 30 component locations.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 60 in the Chairmans letter relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Signature TBC John Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 26 March 2015 98 98 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014
