Strategic report Governance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Galliford Try plcs group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2014 and of the Groups profit, and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Galliford Try plcs financial statements comprise: the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2014: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 4.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
We conducted an audit of complete financial information at four reporting units across the UK.
Our audit scope addressed 87% of Group revenue and 100% of Group profit before tax.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition and contract accounting.
Valuation of amounts recoverable on construction contracts.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as Areas of focus in the table on page 68 together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 67 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition and contractaccounting We performed data analysis to identify potentially unusual See note 1 to the financial statements for the directors manual journal entries impacting revenue and performed disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements testing on those items.
and estimates and note 2 for further information around the We identified and assessed key judgements inherent in the segmental split of revenues.
estimation of significant construction contract projects, Most businesses face a risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
particularly around validating stage-of-completion and costs to completion on significant projects, as well as evaluating Construction contract accounting is inherently complex and the final outcome on projects completed in the year in we focussed on this area because there is judgement involved relation to previous estimates made.
in estimating the costs to complete of projects.
Revenue from fixed price construction contracts is recognised based upon We agreed revenue recognised on a sample of major projects managements assessment of the value of works carried out to supporting documentation such as customer contracts considering performance against the programme of works, and signed variations.
measurement of the works, detailed evaluation of the costs We tested the timing of construction contract revenue incurred and comparison to external certification of the work recognition, taking into account contractual obligations, performed.
Profit is not recognised until the outcome of the the percentage of the contract completed, third-party contract is reasonably certain.
certifications and the timing of cash receipts.
We also focussed on the timing of recognition of housebuilding For housebuilding revenue, we tested a sample of sales by revenue where private housing sales are only recognised once examining legal completion documents and by checking legal completion has been achieved.
the level of remedial work carried out after the year end to confirm that the building work was complete.
We also considered the third-party release of mortgage finance, where appropriate, to check building work was complete.
Risk that housebuilding developments may not be valued We identified and tested the operating effectiveness of key appropriately controls around the estimation and allocation of common See pages 3031 and note 16 to the financial statements.
costs on sites, estimation of costs to complete and calculation of projected site margins.
The valuation of developments is dependent upon the correct estimation and allocation of common costs on housebuilding We compared managements assumptions on future sites.
Common costs are allocated proportionately across salesprices for a site to completed sales and available the site using projected site margin to give a common gross industry data.
profit margin on all units on that site.
Older or slower-moving We identified and assessed key judgements inherent in developments can be an indication of potential impairment.
estimates of site and project margins, particularly around the allocation of common costs on sites and working relationships with subcontractors.
We evaluated the ageing of developments and investigated large and older items.
Risk that amounts recoverable on construction contracts may We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls not be valued appropriately , costs to complete and forecast See pages 3031, and notes 1 and 17 to the financial statements margin calculations.
for the directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, We identified and assessed key judgements inherent judgements and estimates.
in estimation of significant projects, particularly around The valuation of amounts recoverable on construction contracts stage-of-completion, costs to complete and provisions is dependent on judgements around stage-of-completion on loss-making contracts through our testing of contract and remaining costs to complete, as well as the associated review meetings, review of correspondence and testing provisions.
of audit evidence on customer supplier disputes and insuranceclaims.
We reviewed the final outcome on projects completed in the year in relation to previous estimates made to assess the reliability of managements estimates.
We tested whether valid contractual agreements or other documentation was in place to support recognised balances.
We identified and assessed unusual fluctuations in significant project margins.
68 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials How we approached the audit scope In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, we took into account: the divisional structure of the Group: the accounting processes and controls: and the industry in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit accordingly.
The Group is structured in two principal divisions, being housebuilding comprising Linden Homes and Partnerships and construction comprising building and infrastructure.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of six reporting units in total, comprising the four operating entities within these two divisions, PPP Investments and centralised Group functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units.
Ofthe Groups six reporting units, we identified that Linden Homes, building, infrastructure and centralised Group functions, in our view, required an audit of their entire financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included valuation of goodwill and legacy defined benefit pension scheme balances.
Taken together, our audit work performed at individual business unit locations and at the head office addressed 87% of Group revenue and 100% of Group profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality: 4.5 million 2013: 3.7 million How we determined it: 5% of profit before tax Rationale for benchmark applied: We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be more appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 230,000 2013: 150,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 69 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 44 to 51 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 65, in accordance with UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report Governance Code the Code Provision C. 1.1, that they consider the Annual Report taken arising from this responsibility.
asa whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 48 to 49, as required by Code Provision C. 3.8, We have no exceptions to report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters arising from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the Code.
70 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 September 2014 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Galliford Try plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 71
