Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, GKN plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited GKN plcs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 22 million which represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the change in fair value of derivative and other financial instruments.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements we performed full scope audits in 56 reporting units and Materiality specified procedures in a further 24 reporting units.
In addition, certain centralised functions and reporting units, including those covering post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, taxation, goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, and the Company were subject to full scope audit procedures.
The components on which full scope audits, specified procedures and centralised work was performed accounted for approximately 89% of Group revenue.
Audit scope As part of our supervision process, the Group engagement team visited component auditors in the USA, Germany, India, Sweden and China, as well as being responsible for all UK reporting locations performing full scope audits.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below: Area of Assessment of the carrying value of the intangible and tangible assets relating to focus the A350 programme at Western Approach.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other relevant assets.
Assessment of the accounting position adopted on complex contractual obligations.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained and understood the Directors impairment model Assessment of the carrying value of the intangible and and tested it for mathematical accuracy, and found that it tangible assets relating to the A350 programme at followed an acceptable methodology and was consistent with Western Approach prior periods.
Refer to pages 44 to 51 Principal risks and uncertainties, pages 73 to 74 Audit committee report, note 1 Accounting policies and We challenged the Directors on the discount rate usedby presentation, note 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets and comparing this to thecost of capital for the Group and a selection note 12 Property, plant and equipment.
We focused on this area because the Directors assessment of the We also challenged the Directors impairment model around the recoverability of this programmes intangible assets of 120 million key business drivers of the cash flow forecasts supporting their and tangible assets of 89 million, inclusive of 15 million of recoverability assessment.
A range of sensitivities were capitalised borrowing costs, involve complex and subjective performed across the different elements of the impairment model judgements and assumptions about the progress and future in order to understand which judgements and assumptions were results of this programme.
The key judgements and assumptions most sensitive in achieving the Directors recoverability made by the Directors included the discount rate and the key assessment.
The most sensitive and judgemental elements are business drivers of the cash flow forecasts, being the number of detailed below: aircraft sets to be produced, production and assembly hours, for production and assembly hours, we considered the material costs, programme timings which include potential delays Directors expectations for achieving targeted learning curve and the effects of foreign exchange rates.
improvementsand hence reducing the total hours per aircraft set.
We challenged the Directors on the historical achievement of learning curve improvement targets on the A350 programme.
We also considered how thiswas balanced against the expected increase in production rates over future yearsand theimplicit challenges that this will bring to achieving the required hours improvements.
for the number of aircraft sets, we considered the Directors expectations for the number and timing of sets to be produced and compared this to current industry expectations, past schedules and the latest reported order book from Airbus.
Based on our audit work, the planned levels of production and assemblyhour improvements appear achievable, although not without challenge, and the total number of aircraft sets expected to be produced is consistent with current market expectations and production schedules.
As a result of this, we found that the Directors assessment of the carrying value of intangible and tangible assets relating to the A350 programme at Western Approach to be supportable.
However, we consider that a failure to meet target production and assemblyhour rates as the supply to Airbus increases, or a significant change in the total number of aircraft sets to be produced could reasonably be expected to give rise to an impairment charge in the future.
104 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus For each area of complexity identified, we challenged the amount Risk of fraud in revenue recognition of revenue recognised by the Directors to ensure that it was in line Refer to pages 44 to 51 Principal risks and uncertainties, with IAS 18 Revenue and the contractual agreement, or latest pages 73 to 74 Audit committee report, note 1 Accounting formal correspondence with the customer.
In particular: policies and presentation and note 2 Segmental analysis.
For RRSPs we agreed the percentage of revenue entitlement to the customer contract, agreed the revenue recognised to We focused on this area because the Group has a number of supporting correspondence from the customer and challenged complex revenue recognition policies, which require the Directors the Directors on the level of revenue recognised where to exercise judgement and therefore revenue could be subject to estimates were used at the year-end date.
Specifically, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
This specifically ensuring the reasonableness of the estimate through includes judgement over whether revenue has been earned, can agreement to post year-end confirmations received by the be recognised and the subsequent value at which to recognise Directors from customers.
When revenue was recognised based on non-contractually agreed terms, we challenged the Directors on the level of These complexities and judgements include, but are not revenue recognised by taking into account the historical level limited to: of agreement reached with customers on similar programmes revenue risk sharing partnerships RRSPs in Aerospace where and agreed the revenue recognised to either post year-end GKN are entitled to a set percentage of revenue per completed cash settlements or communications with the customer.
aircraft as contractually agreed with the programme partner, For bill and hold arrangements we challenged the Directors which requires the Directors to exercise judgement as to how on the state of completion of the products that had been sold much revenue to recognise reflecting the differences in pricing by inspecting the product and assessing the level of required of Original Engine Manufacturer parts and spare parts at the labour hours needed to complete the product in line with the year-end: agreed specification.
We agreed the acceptance of the risks pricing of non-contractually agreed elements of revenue, and rewards of ownership and confirmed the overall bill and including rebates and ongoing pricing discussions, which hold arrangement was at the request of the customer by requires a level of judgement to be applied by the Directors verifying this to confirmations with the customer.
over how much revenue to recognise: and bill and hold arrangements in Aerospace whereby the In addition to the specific items noted above, we also responded recognition of revenue is based on meeting specific criteria to the risk that manual adjustments could override standard which can be subject to judgement by the Directors.
controls and processes to misstate revenue by testing a sample of manual journals relating to revenue so as to identify unusual In addition, we also focused on this area because the GKN Short or irregular items.
We agreed the manual journals tested to Term Variable Remuneration Scheme STVRS of the Directors and corroborative evidence and found no instances of manipulation senior management is significantly driven by financial measures of revenue occurring in this way.
including revenue recognition, which we concluded gave a greater risk of manipulation of judgements around revenue recognition to Based on the results of our audit work, we found that the revenue ensure that STVRS targets are achieved.
recognised by the Directors agreed to the relevant contractual terms, was at an appropriate value and was consistent with the requirements of IAS 18.
However we did note that contracts with customers are becoming ever more complex and unique and we have therefore recommended that the Directors continue to give sufficient consideration to the revenue being recognised.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We understood and challenged the Directors impairment models Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other around the key business drivers of the cash flow forecasts relevant assets supporting their recoverability assessments, being pricing, Refer to page 38 Business review, pages 44 to 51 Principal risks market performance and expected growth, the level of and uncertainties, pages 73 to 74 Audit committee report, new business wins, the margin growth capabilities and note 1 Accounting policies and presentation andnote 11 capital expenditure requirements.
We also evaluated the Goodwill and other intangible assets.
appropriateness of the key assumptions including the discount rate and long term growth rate used.
We focused on this area because the Directors assessment ofwhether or not certain elements of goodwill and other For the Aerospace Engine Products CGU, where the Directors intangible assets were impaired, and the level of impairment to recognised an impairment charge of 33 million, we were able be booked if applicable, involved complex and subjective to evaluate the reasonableness of the Directors forecast by judgements and assumptions about the progress and future challenging their assumptions regarding the amount of future results of the Groups Cash-Generating Units CGUs.
revenue by agreeing this to contractual terms and challenging the margin expected to be achieved by reference to historical margin In particular, we focused on the carrying values of material CGUs and margin improvement programmes.
We also challenged the forAerospace Engine Products in North America 38 million level of maintenance capital expenditure required to deliver of goodwill and 54 million of other assets andLand Systems current programmes as well as to be able to deliver new business Wheels and Structures Europe 18 million of goodwill and wins within the current capacity and challenged the margin to be 24 million of other assets.
achieved in respect of new programmes by reference to historic margins achieved.
The Directors have recorded total impairment charges of 69 million relating to the Aerospace Engine Products CGU In the Land Systems Wheels and Structures Europe CGU, where 33 million, the Land Systems Wheels and Structures Europe CGU the Directors recognised an impairment charge of 26 million, 26 million and other impairment charges totalling 10 million.
the key assumption we focused on was the amount of growth expected to be achieved in both revenue and operating margin.
At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of goodwill and intangible Factors we considered were the forecast economic growth in the assets in respect of the Groups remaining CGUs totalled region compared to independent industry forecasts and customer 498 million and 944 million respectively.
No impairment data within Europe, combined with the capacity and operating triggers had been identified by the Directors in respect of the capabilities within the CGU which we compared to historical levels.
remaining CGUs and or their impairment models determined that adequate headroom existed not to result in the need for We also challenged the Directors on the discount rate usedby an impairment charge in reasonably possible scenarios.
comparing this to thecost of capital for the Group and a selection of comparable organisations, agreeing any differences identified to supporting evidence.
The Directors key assumptions for long term growth rates were alsocomparedto economic and industry forecasts for reasonableness and were considered appropriate.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the impairment charge to be significantly different to those amounts recognised.
We also considered the likelihood of such changes occurring.
For both Aerospace Engine Products and Land Systems Wheels and Structures Europe we found that the planned level of future growth in revenue and operating margin reflected performance levels below those historically achieved.
As a result of our audit work, we determined that the impairment charges for the Aerospace Engine Products and Land Systems Wheels and Structures Europe CGUs were conservative although within a range of potential likely outcomes based on the current plans which reflect the Directors best estimate of the value in use of the CGUs.
106 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus In addition, based on our audit work, in respect of the remaining CGUs, the Directors assessment that no impairment charge currently needed to be recognised was supportable.
However, the models are sensitive to growth and margin improvement targets which, if not achieved, could reasonably be expected to give rise to further impairment charges in the future.
We tested, on a sample basis, the valuation and calculation of Assessment of the accounting position adopted on individual liabilities or assets that made up the total, including in complex contractual obligations respect ofonerous contracts, claims for contract breaches, late Refer to pages 25 and 29 Business review, pages 44 to 51 deliveries, product quality, warranty, non-contractually agreed Principal risks and uncertainties, pages 73 to 74 Audit pricing and cost recoveries.
In particular: committee report, note 1 Accounting policies and presentation, for liabilities recognised, we challenged the Directors on note 2 Segmental analysis and note 21 Provisions.
ensuring the assessment and calculation of any provision was consistent with the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, The Group continues to work closely with its customers and contingent liabilities and contingent assets and that all suppliers to resolve contractual and other claims and disputes.
potential outcomes had been considered and appropriately These matters are principally in respect of warranty, delivery disclosed in the financial statements: performance, pricing and contract variations.
for assets recognised, we challenged the Directors on their assessment of the recognition criteria and that the assets were We focused on this area because the Directors are required to virtually certain to be recovered: and perform an assessment in line with relevant accounting standards where liabilities and assetsrelated to the same customer or and consider each item individually.
The determination of supplier, we challenged the Directors to ensure that all items whether to recognise aliability or not, or make disclosure in the had been individually considered and were not presented on a financial statements, for claims received, onerous contracts or net basis.
recognise an asset for potential recoveries, requires the Directors to exercise considerable judgement.
We assessed the completeness of the Directors list of claims, disputes, onerous contracts and potential recoveries using our In addition, given the wide ranging geographical and market knowledge of the business, enquiries of the Directors, examining spread of the Group, there is also complexity in ensuring the post year-end correspondence with customers and suppliers and Directors have considered all known disputes, claims and assessing the Directors material litigation process.
We found no material exceptions from the procedures noted above.
We consider the Directors recognition of liabilities and assets to be reasonable and within an acceptable range of potentially likely outcomes and consistent with the requirements of IAS 37.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along four segments being Aerospace, Driveline, Powder Metallurgy and Land Systems with each division set up to manage operations on both a regional and functional basis and consisting of a number of reporting units.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 237 active reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
These reporting units maintain their own accounting records and controlsand report to the head office finance team in the UK through an integrated consolidation system.
Aerospace reporting units are based predominantly in the UK, USA and Sweden.
Driveline reporting units are based in 22 countries with Europe and North America being the largest regions.
Powder Metallurgy reporting units are based predominantly in North America with other sites in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Land Systems reporting units are based predominantly in Europe and North America.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at eachreporting unit and we used component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform this audit work.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Accordingly, of the Groups 237 active reporting units, we identified 56 which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, whether due to their significance and or risk characteristics.
These reporting units accounted for 73% of Group revenue.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 24 reporting units with due consideration paid to obtaining global coverage on a rotational basis.
The reporting units on which these specific procedures were performed accounted for a further 16% of Group revenue.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group engagement team visits  onsignificance and or risk characteristics, as well as on a rotational basis to ensure coverage across the Group.
In the current year, the Group engagement team visited component auditors in theUSA, Germany, India, Sweden andChina, as well as being responsible for allUK reporting locations performing full scope audits.
Additionally the Group audit team was in contact, at each stage of the audit, with a number of othercomponent auditors, which included meeting local GKN management, attendance at audit planning meetings, attendance at audit close meetings and review of audit working papers.
The Group consolidation, financial statements disclosures and a number of centralised reporting units were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included, but were not limited to, central procedures onpost-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, taxation, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments.
We also performed group level analytical procedures on all of the remaining out of scope active reporting units to identify whether any further audit evidence was needed, which resulted in no extra testing being required.
The Company was also subject to a full scope audit.
Takentogether, the reporting units and group functions where we performed audit procedures accounted for approximately 89% of Group revenue.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, and consistent with the prior year, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 22 million 2013: 23 million.
Overall Group materiality 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the change in fair value of derivative and other financial How we determined it instruments and as disclosed on the face of the consolidated income statement.
We believe that profit before tax adjusted for the change in fair value of derivative and other Rationale for benchmark financial instruments provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining applied materiality as it eliminates the fluctuating nature of these items which can have a disproportionate impact on the Groups consolidated income statement.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2013: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
108 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 41, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 68, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as arising from this responsibility.
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 73 to 77, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters arising from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 23 February 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
110 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
