Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc Our application of materiality Opinion on financial statements We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our In our opinion the Group financial statements: audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial as at 28 June 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic as adopted by the European Union: and decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a level have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the What we have audited aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality We have audited the Group financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group for the financial statements as a whole.
plc for the year ended 28 June 2014 which comprise the consolidated When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated balance financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group sheet, the consolidated cashflow statement and the related notes 1 to 29. to be 3.95 million 2013: 4.03 million, which is approximately 5 per The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation cent of profit before exceptional items and tax.
This provided the basis for is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, adopted by the European Union.
identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, in accordance the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the been undertaken so that we might state to the Groups members those Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no performance materiality for the Group should be 50 per cent of planning other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept materiality, namely 1.98 million.
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group, and the Groups We agreed with the Audit committee that we would report to the members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions committee all adjusted and unadjusted audit differences in excess of we have formed.
We also agreed to report differences below those thresholds Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out Our assessment of risks of material misstatement on page 86, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and our audit response financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the efforts of the engagement team.
For each risk identified, we have the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for auditors.
documented our response and audit procedure below.
1 Non compliance with franchise terms and conditions relating to the rail Scope of the audit of the financial statements components of the Group, specifically relating to accounting for related costs An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures arising from franchise agreements.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the We tested the Groups process for identifying and monitoring compliance financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused with the requirements of the franchise agreements and related bid models, by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting which have a financial consequence.
This included discussion with the policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been compliance team at each of the train operating companies and reviewing consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of correspondence with the Department for Transport for evidence of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall additional liabilities requiring recognition, or the resolution of issues for presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we have read all the which a liability had previously been recognised.
financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and We tested for evidence of breaches of franchise conditions or changes to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, in franchise terms and conditions occurring in the year and considered or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course whether related expenditure had been appropriately recognised.
If we become aware of any apparent material We re-assessed matters brought forward from prior years to consider misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the appropriateness of related accruals, provisions and disclosures.
We challenged the estimates used in determining the valuation and timing of costs recognition, considering whether the conditions for recognition of liabilities had been met under IFRS.
com 87 Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc continued 4 Revenue recognition across the Groups operations, specifically in relation Our assessment of risks of material misstatement to manual adjustments to defer or accrue revenue and the risk of and our audit response continued management override.
2 Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges, specifically relating to We challenged managements underlying assumptions and methodology third party claims and lease return and dilapidations provisions for rolling used to calculate manual adjustments to revenue relating to accrued stock, stations, depots and other properties.
and deferred income, particularly with respect to accounting for advance We understood the level of internal and external expert involvement purchase tickets, season tickets and railcards.
External experts are utilised to assess For material items we re-performed the calculation to confirm the dilapidation provisions for the train operating companies and to assess accuracy of the accrued and deferred income recorded by management.
Our testing included understanding the terms We understood the different income streams of the Group in order to of reference of those external experts, their competence and objectivity.
challenge the completeness of manual adjustments to reflect the accrual For dilapidations liabilities, we obtained the contract documentation for or deferral of revenue.
maintenance of rolling stock, stations and depots, to assess the relevant We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied terms and conditions and consider whether these contracts gave rise with IFRSs.
Where previously provided amounts were re-estimated we obtained evidence for changes including details of contract amendments.
We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order Where no movement occurred, we challenged whether the assumptions to identify and test the risk of fraud arising from management override used previously to estimate the liability remain reasonable.
We obtained information on settlements made in the year of previously An overview of the scope of our audit provided liabilities, to understand how these compared with the Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group quantification previously recorded and to assess the quality of estimates financial statements, we selected eleven components which represent the made by management and their independent experts.
principal business units within the Groups reportable segments and account With respect to uninsured claims, we challenged managements for 98.5 per cent of the Groups revenue and 99 per cent of the Groups assessment of the liability for claims incurred but not yet notified to profit before tax.
Eight of these components were subject to a full audit claims handlers and for the development in settlement costs for prior and three were subject to audits of specific account balances based on claims.
We considered evidence of claims over the past seven years to our judgement of risk and materiality.
For the remaining components, we assess trends in claims in terms of growth from original assessed liability performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of and value of settlement.
material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
We met with in-house legal counsel to obtain up to date information The audit work for the components in scope and the statutory audits were on claims or disputes.
We reviewed board and subcommittee minutes executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which for evidence of the existence of further liabilities and external legal were much lower than Group materiality.
correspondence for the existence of any further contractual issues.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team We assessed whether each of the liabilities were appropriately classified participates in the execution of the audits of all of the full scope and specific between accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities against the scope components.
recognition and measurement criteria of IFRS.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the 3 Assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Groups defined benefit Companies Act 2006 pension liabilities.
In our opinion: We utilised our own actuarial experts to benchmark and consider an the information given in the strategic report and the directors report appropriate range for the key assumptions underpinning the calculation for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared of the pension liabilities being discount rate, price inflation, expected rate is consistent with the financial statements.
of investment returns and mortality in retirement.
We also utilised our own actuarial experts to challenge the appropriateness of the methodology used by managements actuaries to calculate the liabilities for the pension schemes.
We reviewed the adequacy of pension disclosures provided in the financial statements and compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised.
We obtained legal documentation setting out the decision to close the non-rail pension scheme to future accrual and tested whether this had been appropriately accounted for as a curtailment.
88 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc continued 4 Revenue recognition across the Groups operations, specifically in relation Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Matters on which we are required to report by to manual adjustments to defer or accrue revenue and the risk of and our audit response continued exception management override.
2 Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges, specifically relating to We have nothing to report in respect of the following.
We challenged managements underlying assumptions and methodology third party claims and lease return and dilapidations provisions for rolling Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, used to calculate manual adjustments to revenue relating to accrued stock, stations, depots and other properties.
in our opinion, information in the annual report is: and deferred income, particularly with respect to accounting for advance We understood the level of internal and external expert involvement purchase tickets, season tickets and railcards.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial used in estimating liabilities.
External experts are utilised to assess statements: or For material items we re-performed the calculation to confirm the dilapidation provisions for the train operating companies and to assess accuracy of the accrued and deferred income recorded by management.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, notified uninsured claims.
Our testing included understanding the terms our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our We understood the different income streams of the Group in order to of reference of those external experts, their competence and objectivity.
audit: or challenge the completeness of manual adjustments to reflect the accrual For dilapidations liabilities, we obtained the contract documentation for or deferral of revenue.
maintenance of rolling stock, stations and depots, to assess the relevant We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied terms and conditions and consider whether these contracts gave rise In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any with IFRSs.
Where previously provided amounts were re-estimated we inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the obtained evidence for changes including details of contract amendments.
We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and Where no movement occurred, we challenged whether the assumptions to identify and test the risk of fraud arising from management override understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those used previously to estimate the liability remain reasonable.
matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We obtained information on settlements made in the year of previously An overview of the scope of our audit provided liabilities, to understand how these compared with the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group quantification previously recorded and to assess the quality of estimates in our opinion: financial statements, we selected eleven components which represent the made by management and their independent experts.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate principal business units within the Groups reportable segments and account With respect to uninsured claims, we challenged managements for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or for 98.5 per cent of the Groups revenue and 99 per cent of the Groups assessment of the liability for claims incurred but not yet notified to profit before tax.
Eight of these components were subject to a full audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report claims handlers and for the development in settlement costs for prior and three were subject to audits of specific account balances based on to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and claims.
For the remaining components, we returns: or assess trends in claims in terms of growth from original assessed liability performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not and value of settlement.
made: or We met with in-house legal counsel to obtain up to date information The audit work for the components in scope and the statutory audits were we have not received all the information and explanations we require on claims or disputes.
We reviewed board and subcommittee minutes executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which for our audit.
for evidence of the existence of further liabilities and external legal were much lower than Group materiality.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team We assessed whether each of the liabilities were appropriately classified the directors report, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern: and participates in the execution of the audits of all of the full scope and specific between accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities against the scope components.
the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Groups recognition and measurement criteria of IFRS.
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Code specified for our review.
3 Assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Groups defined benefit Companies Act 2006 pension liabilities.
Other matter In our opinion: We utilised our own actuarial experts to benchmark and consider an We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements the information given in the strategic report and the directors report appropriate range for the key assumptions underpinning the calculation of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 28 June 2014 and on for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared of the pension liabilities being discount rate, price inflation, expected rate the information in the directors remuneration report that is described is consistent with the financial statements.
Kathryn Barrow Senior Statutory Auditor, We obtained legal documentation setting out the decision to close the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London non-rail pension scheme to future accrual and tested whether this had 3 September 2014 been appropriately accounted for as a curtailment.
Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
88 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
