Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GROUP To the members of Greene King plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 4 May 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the group financial statements of Greene King plc for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2014 which comprise the group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group balance sheet, group cash flow statement, group statement of changes inequity and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law andInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in anauditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider theimplications for our report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that we believe to have had the greatest impact on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources inthe audit and directing the efforts of the audit team: Asset impairment considerations in relation to the pub estate and associated goodwill: Risks relating to uncertain tax positions: Compliance with debt covenants: Revenue recognition in relation to beer and liquor sales and the associated retrospective discounts: and Risk of management override of internal control, specifically with reference to revenue recognition.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement wedefine materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the group to be 8.8m 2013: 8.4m, which is approximately 5% of pre-tax profit.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgment is that overall performance materiality for the group should be 75% of materiality, namely 6.6m 2013: 6.3m.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to reduce to an appropriately low level the total undetected and uncorrected audit differences such that they do not exceed our materiality of 8.8m 2013: 8.4m for the financial statements as whole.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 400,000 2013: 400,000, aswell as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
64 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements An overview of the scope of our audit The groups operations are based solely in the United Kingdom and therefore all audit procedures are completed by one audit team based inthe head office location working across both the group and subsidiary financial statement audits.
Full scope audit procedures are completed for all divisions both trading and corporate which contribute to the groups results for the year.
The audit work on these divisions was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual division, which were lower than group planning materiality.
Our response to the risks of material misstatement identified above was as follows: Asset impairment we have challenged the assumptions used in the impairment models prepared by management, including checking ofcalculations, discussions with managements internal property experts, verification to third party evidence or our own property specialists and undertaking a sensitivity analysis.
We have involved tax specialists in the audit of uncertain tax positions.
These procedures included the consideration of correspondence with HMRC, assessment of technical analyses prepared by the groups tax advisers and the appropriateness of the judgments applied.
In testing the groups compliance with banking covenants and procedures in relation to going concern assessment we have obtained copies of the bank agreements and re-performed covenants calculations based on audited information.
We have challenged managements going concern assessment and considered the accuracy of the forecasts and level of headroom available to the group within committed facilities.
reviewed managements stress testing of forecasts.
We have performed detailed substantive testing over revenue recognition including the timing of revenue recognition, proof of delivery, the assessment of collectability and accounting for rebate agreements, substantive analytical review procedures and an assessment ofwhether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS.
We carried out analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of material fraud arising from management override of control.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the group financialstatements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course ofperforming our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during theaudit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 62, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the  Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Greene King plc for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2014 andontheinformation in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Bob Forsyth Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Cambridge 2 July 2014 Notes: 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the Greene King plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration ofthese matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 65
