Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Greggs plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the accounts is unmodified We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015 set out on pages 68 to 95.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 3 January 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 53 weeks then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : and the Parent Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the accounts the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Impairment of property, plant and equipment net charge in year 0.4m, closing net book value 263m Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, pages 73 and 75 accounting policy and pages 84 to 85 financial disclosures.
The risk The significant levels of property, plant and equipment held by the Group including assets in over 1,600 shops means that there are many separate cash generating units i. e. shops that independently expose the Group to a risk that the value of property, plant and equipment balances may not be recoverable in full through either future trade or recoverable value on disposal.
In addition, following the 4m impairment charge in 2013 and the decision announced in the current year to close the in-store bakeries, countered by a significant improvement in the performance of the Group in 2014, there is also an increased risk of further impairments in some shops whilst previous impairments possibly should be reversed in other shops.
This includes the risk that for obsolete assets, e. g. land and buildings which are surplus to requirements, the assumptions over the recoverable amount may have changed over time as intentions change and more information is available.
Determining the level of impairment and any reversal of impairment involves forecasting and discounting future cash flows and estimation of recoverable amounts which are inherently uncertain.
Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others, considering the impairment risk associated with the following different types of asset: In respect of the shops which continue to trade we critically assessed and challenged the Groups impairment model.
This included consideration of the discounted cash flow forecasts on a shop by shop basis and whether these support the carrying value of the relevant assets as well as if this indicates a reversal of a past impairment is needed.
We assessed the cash flow forecasts against the historical performance of those shops and against the Groups budgets.
We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate including benchmarking it against other national retailers.
We performed a sensitivity analysis of both discount rates and forecast cash flows and considered the resulting impact on the impairment charge.
In respect of specific impairments of plant and equipment, we critically assessed the Groups identification of assets that were obsolete and critically assessed whether such assets have any recoverable value or possible further use by the business using our knowledge of the Group and historical experience.
In respect of owned land and buildings which have been identified as surplus to requirements and which are not being traded from, we considered whether the carrying value of the land and buildings was appropriate with reference to market indicators such as external third party valuations and purchase offers received.
This included consideration as to whether assets were impaired or whether previously booked impairments should be reversed.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in determining the amount of impairment and the sensitivity to key assumptions involved.
Provisions net charge in year 3.87m, provision in balance sheet 6.6m Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, pages 74 and 76 accounting policy and page 93 financial disclosures.
66 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Greggs plc continued The risk The decision, in the prior year, to close shops and accelerate certain shop closures has resulted in an increased risk of onerous leases.
Determining the level of onerous lease provisions involves forecasting and discounting future cash flows and estimation of the length of time and cost at which lease arrangements can be exited, both of which are inherently uncertain.
The work completed during the year to remove the in-store bakeries within relevant stores resulted in an increased requirement for dilapidation provisions.
The level of dilapidation provision involves estimation as to the costs anticipated to make good any alterations to properties as required by lease agreements.
Our response Our audit procedures in respect of property provisions included, among others: In respect of the onerous lease provisions we critically assessed whether provisions identified by the Group met the criteria for recognition as detailed below.
We also considered the completeness of provisions for all leases where the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligation exceed the economic benefit expected to be received under the lease.
This included consideration of shops closed during the year.
For closed shops we critically assessed the Groups estimate of total costs to exit the lease by challenging key assumptions including the time it would take to exit, the level of incentives to sublease or penalties to landlords to be paid and other costs to exit or sublet a shop such as legal fees or dilapidation costs.
We considered the most recent expectation of the relevant local in-house Group property surveyor responsible for each shop, supported by third party evidence including offers made, communications with third party agents, or contracts agreed to surrender or sublease properties post year end.
We considered the historical experience of the Group at exiting similar properties and the costs involved in doing so.
We also considered the location of each closed shop and the impact this may have on the time and costs expected to exit these leases as well as the possible income from subletting these shops if possible.
We challenged the Groups assumptions relating to onerous lease provisions for shops still trading.
This included consideration of the discounted cash flow forecasts on a shop by shop basis and assessing the cash flow forecasts against the historical performance of those shops and against the Groups budgets.
We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate used in the forecasts, including benchmarking it against other national retailers.
In respect of the dilapidation provisions we critically assessed whether provisions identified by the Group met the criteria for recognition.
We also considered the completeness of provisions including the consideration of shops where there is indication of likely dilapidation costs taking into account historical experience of the Group.
We considered the historical experience of the Group in respect of dilapidation costs.
We considered specific issues on certain Group properties and critically assessed the impact of these on the provisions made.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provisions and the sensitivity to key assumptions involved.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the accounts as a whole was set at 2.9 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude this years exceptional charge as disclosed in note 4, of 58.3m, of which it represents 5 per cent.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 145,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100 per cent of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounts, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 39 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mick Thompson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Quayside House 110 Quayside Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3DX 4 March 2015
