getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Financials auditors report auditors report Valuation of Goodwill associated with the nationwide autocentres independent auditors report acquisition 69.7 m to the members oF halFords Group plc only Refer to pages 86 to 89 Audit Committee Report, page 127 to 128 accounting policy and page 136 financial disclosures.
opinions and conclusions arisinG From our audit the risk Following the acquisition of Nationwide Autocentres 1. our opinion on the Financial statements is unmodiFied in 2010, the Group has held significant goodwill in the business.
We have audited the financial statements of Halfords Group plc the The business operates in a competitive market and difficulties Group for the year ended 28 March 2014 set out on pages 117 to commercially: such as loss of a significant customer, may lead 155.
In our opinion: to a risk that the business does not meet the growth projections the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the necessary to support the carrying value of the intangible asset.
Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 28 March 2014 Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting these and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: cashflows, this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others, adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : critically assessing the assumptions used around prospective trading levels through discussion with the Group, in light of market the Parent Company financial statements have been properly information around the size and age of the UK car market and prepared in accordance with UK Accounting standards: and comparison of the historical forecasting accuracy for newly opened the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Autocentres, given the proportion which have recently been opened.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group We also assessed the Groups performance against budget in financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the current and prior periods to evaluate the historical accuracy of forecasts.
We used break even analysis to determine the key 2. our assessment oF risks oF material misstatement sensitivities within the budgeting model, which we considered to In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the be the discount rate and the growth rate.
Our internal valuation risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit specialists assessed the discount rate, which included an adjustment were as follows.
for forecasting risk, by benchmarking the rate against external market data and the Groups financial position.
We have assessed Valuation of inventory within the retail division 150.2m the continuing improvement in customer retention, a key factor in the Refer to pages 86 to 89 Audit Committee Report, page 126 to 127 growth rate, through the externally generated Net Promoter Score accounting policy and page 138 financial disclosures.
NPS and the operational focus on customer service within the the risk The Group holds a significant amount of inventory across business.
a broad and diverse product range.
Changes in consumer tastes We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures see Note 10 and demands may mean that they cannot be sold or sales prices about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to are discounted to less than the current carrying value.
Estimating changes in key assumptions.
the future demand for, and hence the recoverable amount of, these products is inherently subjective.
3. our application oF materiality and an oVerView oF the scope oF our audit our response Our audit procedures in this area included, amongst others, testing the design and effectiveness of controls over The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set identifying slow moving or discontinued products and obtaining an at 5.0m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark understanding of the Groups process for measuring the amount of of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 6.9% which we provision required.
These controls are designed to identify product consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the lines where current sales prices do not exceed cost.
The Group Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
also makes provision for product lines where future sales prices We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and are expected to be below current carrying value due to changes in uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value customer tastes and demand.
We critically assessed the Groups in excess of 0.3m in addition to other audit misstatements below that provision for those product lines identified as slow moving, or threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
potentially slow moving, by obtaining an understanding of the Groups sales and purchasing plans for 2014 5 and the new product The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a launches therein as well as the level of expected discounting.
This single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed included considering the historical accuracy of these plans and using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total the level of discounting activity in previous years compared to the Group revenue, Group profit before taxation, and total Group assets.
current inventory levels and committed purchases.
We compared post year-end sales data to items within the Groups provision and to information provided by Category Managers responsible for each product category.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures see page 127 and Note 12 about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 4. our opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies act scope oF report and responsibilities 2006 is unmodiFied As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set In our opinion: out on page 111, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors members as a body and is subject to important explanations and Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide 5. we haVe nothinG to report in respect oF the matters on which an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have we are required to report by exception undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, Greg watts Senior Statutory Auditor based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor identified other information in the annual report that contains a material Chartered Accountants inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a One Snowhill material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham In particular, we are required to report to you if: B4 6GH we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 21 May 2014 we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report, as set out on pages 86 to 89 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 76 to 85 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
115 23157.04 Proof 6 21-05-2014 Shareholder Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information financialS governance riSk performance Strategy overview
