Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc Opinion on financial statements of Halma plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 29 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Consolidated Income Statement, the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Group Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 31 and C1 to C12.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within page 65 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged the adequacy and reasonableness of assumptions There is a risk relating to the assumptions and assertions used by used in managements impairment calculations and the management to support their assessment of both the recoverable appropriateness of judgements and forecasts used to conclude on amount of goodwill and intangible assets.
There are a number of key asset impairment including a specific review and challenge of discount judgements in determining their recoverable amounts, including rates and growth rates, the appropriateness of the level of aggregation growth rates, discount rates applied and the forecast future of individual cash generating units CGUs and the methodology trading performance.
We benchmarked the discount rates with published rates for the external peer group and agreed the CGU groupings to information reviewed by management to make decisions about their business.
We also challenged the forecast cash flows used in the model against historical performance and post period trading data.
We recalculated managements sensitivity analysis and replaced key assumptions with alternative scenario values applying the highest discount rate applied by peer group companies, capping the short-term growth rates at long term rates and capping the growth assumed in the budgets at historical growth levels.
Having audited the assumptions within managements annual impairment assessment, we checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model.
We also assessed whether the annual report disclosure included specific growth and discount rates for those deemed to be significant CGUs.
Acquisition accounting For historical acquisitions we compared the forecast contingent There is a risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly consideration positions to post year end trading results, approved in line with IFRS 3 Business combinations.
The risk relates to the budgets and historical levels of settlement.
We recalculated the release assumptions and assertions used by management to forecast future of 12m of the balance based on the latest management budgets and trading performance to determine both the fair value of acquired assessed whether management has disclosed adequately the release assets and future contingent consideration payments.
For this of the provision in the Consolidated Income Statement.
We agreed the period there is a risk that the contingent consideration provisions are underlying data in the contingent consideration calculation to signed provided at the incorrect value, based on inaccurate forecasts.
This sale and purchase agreements and the trading performance to would result in future cost variances on settlement being recorded the audited entity trial balance for the current period.
We assessed in that periods Consolidated Income Statement.
whether managements treatment of contingent consideration payment arrangements for former owners, as either additional purchase consideration or post-acquisition remuneration, is appropriate.
We obtained calculations updating the fair value adjustments for material acquisitions in the prior period and confirmed that the period of asessement was correct as well as confirming that the adjustment was supported by actual trading data.
94 94 H Ha allm ma p a pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Defined Benefit pension plan assumptions We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the assumptions There is a risk relating to judgements made by management in applied in determining the pension obligations, particularly given recent valuing the Defined Benefit pension plans including the use of market volatility, and determined whether the key assumptions are key model input assumptions such as the discount rate, mortality reasonable.
This included reviewing available yield curves and inflation assumption and inflation level.
There is also a risk in accounting data to recalculate a reasonable range for the key assumptions.
We for non-standard pension transactions that occur infrequently challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes in and are by their nature potentially complex.
assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation.
We discussed the output of sensitivity analysis with management and the third party actuarial advisers.
We checked the arithmetical accuracy of the pension calculation model.
Additionally we benchmarked key assumptions against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the data used.
During the period a curtailment gain of 4.2m was recorded in respect to the closure of the UK Defined Benefit pension plans to future benefit accruals.
We verified the amendments to the trust deed and confirmed that the trustees deed of amendment letters were signed before the year end, confirming the obligation to close the plans to future benefit accruals.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on pages 68 and 69.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.8m which is 7% of statutory pre-tax profit and 2% of net assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 196,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 43 locations covering 52 out of 81 trading entities in the Group.
46 of the 52 entities were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 6 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 52 entities represent principal business units and account for 80% of the Groups net assets, 74% of the Groups revenue and 73% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the 52 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits key locations where the Group audit scope is focused at least once every three years and any significant components at least once a year defined as contributing greater than 10% of Group profit or revenue.
Net assets Revenue profit before tax Full audit scope 78% Full audit scope 71% Full audit scope 73% specified audit procedures 2% specified audit procedures 3% specified audit procedures 0% Head ofce review 20% Head ofce review 26% Head ofce review 27% Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report and Accounts Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report and Accounts appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alexander Butterworth ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, UK 12 June 2014 96 96 H Ha allm ma p a pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 20 s 201 14 4
