78HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 indePendent AuditorS rePort to tHe memberS of HAYS PLC oPinion on finAnCiAL StAtementS of HAYS PLC going ConCern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors Report that the Group the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the is a going concern.
We confirm that: Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in is appropriate: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as the parent Company financial statements have been properly a going concern.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the ability to continue as a going concern.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
our ASSeSSment of riSkS of mAteriAL miSStAtement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the of the engagement team: Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk debtor and accrued income We have: recoverability challenged management regarding the level and ageing of debtors and accrued income, The recoverability of trade debtors, along with the consistency and appropriateness of debtor and accrued income provisioning accrued income and the level of provisions by assessing recoverability in reference to cash received in respect of debtors and billings for bad debts are considered to be a raised against accrued income.
In addition we consider the Companys previous experience significant risk due to the pervasive of bad debt exposure, the individual counterparty credit risk, the level of provision held by nature of these balances to the financial other recruitment businesses and general economic environment in each jurisdiction: statements, and the importance of cash collection in reference to the working critically assessed the recoverability of overdue unprovided debt with reference to the capital management of the business.
historical levels of bad debt expense and credit profile of the counterparties: Refer to note 17 to the financial statements tested these balances on a sample basis through agreement to post period end invoicing, for further detail.
post period end cash receipt or agreement to the terms of the contract in place, as appropriate: and considered the consistency of judgments made year on year to consider whether there is evidence of management bias through discussion with management on their rationale and obtaining evidence to support judgment areas.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 78HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 79 risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk revenue recognition We have: The key risks on revenue recognition are: assessed the design and implementation of key controls around all streams of cut-off of revenue as Hays recognises revenuerecognised: income on the day an individual considered the appropriateness and accuracy of any cut-off adjustments processed commences work, rather than when by considering the start date of permanent placements and the term of a temporary the placement is agreed for permanent placement in reference to the year end date: placements and over the course of a temporary placement arrangement: and evaluated whether revenue has been recognised in accordance with IAS 18 and with Hays accounting policy by reviewing the Group revenue recognition policy, the application the presentation of temporary of this and any significant new contracts: and contractual arrangements where Hays acts as a principal and revenue confirmed that all material temporary worker contractual arrangements where Hays is recognised and presented on a acts as a principal and maintains the majority of the risk and rewards associated with the gross rather than a net basis.
underlying agreement have been recognised and presented on a gross revenue basis in the financial statements.
The risks noted above in relation to revenue are areas that can involve significant management judgment, therefore they are considered to be significant risks.
Refer to note 1 to the financial statements for further detail.
goodwill impairment We have: Management is required to carry out an performed a detailed review and challenge of the models used including the annual impairment test.
This process is macroeconomic assumptions used: complex and highly judgmental given the indefinite nature of the goodwill.
This is compared key assumptions used in the model to external data and, where possible, based on assumptions about future to information provided by Deloitte valuations experts: growth and discount rates, particularly benchmarked the discount and long-term growth rates, against third party data and given the sensitivity in certain jurisdictions assessed the reasonableness of forecast future cash flows by comparison to historic to the growth rates, which are typically performance and future outlook: linked to individual country GDP and country wage inflation.
Therefore, a risk utilised internal experts to determine the reasonableness of the discount rates used across exists that goodwill is overstated on the the Group in the goodwill impairment assessment: balance sheet should any judgments or performed a detailed review and challenge of the disclosures in respect of impairments assumptions be considered inappropriate.
and impairment testing adopted by management: and Refer to note 13 to the financial statements performed sensitivity analysis on key assumptions, including discount rates adopted.
Pension accounting We have: Pension accounting is complex and assessed the actuarial assumptions discount rate, inflation rates and mortality contains areas of significant judgment, assumptions adopted by the Group for the valuation of its retirement benefit obligations, notably the discount and inflation rates with specific focus on changes to demographic assumptions in the year: used in the valuation of the net liability.
Therefore, a risk exists that inappropriate utilised internal specialists to consider these assumptions and benchmarked them against rates are used resulting in an inaccurate a relevant comparator group: pension valuation at year end.
reviewed the pension scheme liability.
The scheme is currently in a net deficit position.
Refer to note 21 to the financial statements The net pension liability recognised is lower than the present value of future contributions for further detail.
to fund the existing deficit.
In order to assess whether an additional liability would need to be recognised, we have reviewed the pension trust documents to assess whether Hays has an unconditional right to any scheme surplus: and reviewed the disclosures made in note 21 and compared these to the requirements set forth in IAS19.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 54.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
80HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 indePendent AuditorS rePort to tHe memberS of HAYS PLC Continued our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.0 million, which is approximately 5.3% of pre-tax profit, and below 3% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 140,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material Group scoping % misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit NET FEES scope primarily on the audit work at 32 locations.
Of these, 18 were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 14 were subject to an audit of specified account balances specified 7 3 audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 18 locations represent the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments and account for 90% of the Groups net fees and 98% of profit before tax.
The three key locations are Australia APAC, Germany CE&RoW and UK UK & Ireland which account for 75% of net fees and 91% of profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of 90 material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 18 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each PROFIT BEFORE TAX individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
1 1 At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years.
During the 2014 audit, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the UK, Germany, 98 Australia and Hong Kong.
In addition, senior members of the audit team visited Spain, Full scope audit Portugal, France and Sweden.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we Agreed upon procedures will include the component audit team in our team planning and risk briefing, discuss their Head oce review risk assessment, participate in the close meeting and review documentation of the findings from their work.
opinion on other matters prescribed In our opinion: by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
matters on which we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: to report by exception we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 80HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 81 directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
our duty to read other information Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report inthe Annual report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors ofdirectors and Auditor areresponsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied thattheygive a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion onthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial financial statements statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
StePHen griggS Senior StAtutorY Auditor for And on beHALf of deLoitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, united kingdom 28 August 2014
