Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 91 Independent auditors report to the Members of HellermannTyton Group PLC Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the Company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: In our opinion, HellermannTyton Group PLCs Company financial statements the financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been have been properly prepared in accordance with United received from branches not visited by us: or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement Companies Act 2006. with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
HellermannTyton Group PLCs financial statements comprise: Directors remuneration the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: and Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be of significant accounting policies and other explanatory audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than Other Companies Act 2006 reporting in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and arising from this responsibility.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Other required reporting Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Consistency of other information As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Companies Act 2006 opinion responsibilities set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial that they give a true and fair view.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs ISAs UK & Ireland reporting UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only information in the Annual Report is: for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other materially inconsistent with the information in the audited purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume financial statements: or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
HellermannTyton 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the Members of HellermannTyton Group PLC continued What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of HellermannTyton Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Rosemary Shapland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Gatwick 27 February 2015
