HellermannTyton 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of HellermannTyton Group PLC Report on the Group financial statements What we have audited HellermannTyton Group PLCs financial statements comprise: Our opinion the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: In our opinion, HellermannTyton Group PLCs Group financial the Group income statement and Group statement of statements the financial statements : comprehensive income for the year then ended: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year ended: then ended: the Group statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which European Union: and include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 3.6 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the loss gain on revaluation of intra-Group loans.
Materiality Of the Groups 37 reporting units, we performed full scope audit procedures on six operations based in Germany, the USA, China, Japan, Singapore and the UK.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further five holding Audit scope and financing reporting units and two trading entities based in South Africa and Brazil.
Overall, this accounted for 76% of Group revenue and 70% of Group profit before tax adjusted for gain loss on revaluation of intra-group loans.
Areas of focus Carrying amount of inventory and trade receivables.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 51 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Areas of focus How our audit addressed the areas of focus We assessed the underlying accuracy of the source information used to Carrying amount of inventory and trade receivables calculate the inventory provisions and discussed with local management Refer to page 30 of the Audit Committee Report, and items that had been manually adjusted to assess the reasonableness of pages 74 and 75 of the financial statements.
We also considered other factors that supported Given the nature of the business in the manufacturing the future realisation of the inventory, including obsolete lines and historic industry, managing working capital is a key component and forecast usage, in order to assess the appropriateness of the provisions.
to the success of the business, especially during strong We also re-performed the provision calculations to assess whether they had growth phases where demands on working capital can been correctly calculated and reviewed recent sales to assess whether be significant to facilitate further expansion.
inventory was being sold above its carrying value.
The following strategic factors have led management Our testing did not identify any material misstatements in managements to need an increased focus on maintaining a strong provisions.
working capital position in the current year: We performed testing on the ageing analysis of trade receivables to assess increased reliance on customers in the automotive the accuracy of the base data used to determine provisions.
industry, where payment terms are typically longer, resulting in an increase in year end trade receivables: and Where management specifically provided for balances we understood the rationale for such provisions to determine the reasonableness of the an increase in the number of stock lines due to judgement.
We also challenged management over significant balances which individual customisation of products for specific were past their due date but not yet one year overdue to assess whether the customers, resulting in a higher inherent risk of debts were considered recoverable or whether some provision should be held inventory obsolescence.
Managements provisioning process for both inventory and We also assessed the total provisions on a  basis to assess receivables has both automated and manual elements.
whether there were significant year-on-year fluctuations and corroborated Inventory provisions are system-calculated based on these changes to supporting information.
Territories with provisions age, with manual adjustments made as necessary for significantly different to Group overall provision percentages were also new lines introduced in the year or unusual trading investigated to corroborate that local factors were understood and patterns on established lines.
reasonable given the current local factors.
Any significant variances identified were supported by reasonable business rationale.
Provision is made in full against all trade receivables aged over one year, with specific provisions made where Testing of post year end cash receipts also provided comfort over the management assesses a specific risk of collectability to collectability of trade receivables.
exist, such as customers who have gone into receivership Our testing identified no material misstatements and we found the or no longer have a trading relationship with the Group.
judgements made by management were consistent with the Groups We have included these matters as an area of accounting policy and in accordance with IFRS requirements.
focus given the magnitude of the balances and the judgemental nature of the provision calculations.
As a result, significant audit effort was required to be able to test whether inventory and trade receivables were free from material misstatement.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
HellermannTyton 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of HellermannTyton Group PLC continued The Group is structured geographically across three territories, namely EMEA, Americas and Asia, with a number of functions performed centrally in the UK.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Groups manufacturing units and sales units spread across the geographical segments, together with holding and financing entities and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that was needed to be performed at the reporting units by us in the UK, as the Group engagement team, or by other PwC LLP network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we also determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units audited by other audit teams to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Conference calls were held with all component auditors prior to the commencement of work to ensure significant areas were appropriately addressed.
The largest component was visited by the Group engagement team, who discussed the work performed with the local component audit team and attended the final clearance meeting with the local client.
The second largest component was audited directly by the Group engagement team, and we also attended other clearances by conference call where significant matters for the Group were anticipated.
Follow up communication was then completed with components following the submission of their reporting to address any matters and to ensure appropriate procedures has been completed.
Of the Groups 37 reporting units, we identified six based in Germany, the USA, China, Japan, Singapore and the UK and accounting for 71% of Group revenue and 64% of Group profit before tax adjusted for gain loss on revaluation of intra-Group loans which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further five holding and financing reporting units across the globe and two trading entities based in South Africa and Brazil 70% of Group profit before tax adjusted for gain loss on revaluation of intra-Group loans and 76% of Group revenue was covered by these 13 reporting units.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 3.6 million 2013: 3.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the loss gain on revaluation of intra-Group loans.
Rationale for benchmark We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the loss gain on revaluation of intra-Group applied loans, provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the volatility caused by these revaluations which are as a result of closing balance sheet exchange rates.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 180,000 2013: 150,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 53 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 49, in accordance We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 30, as required by We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
HellermannTyton 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of HellermannTyton Group PLC continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of HellermannTyton Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Rosemary Shapland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Gatwick 27 February 2015
