Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC Opinion on financial statements of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB In our opinion: As explained in Note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in IFRSsas issued by the IASB.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: Going concern the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied statement contained on page 111 that the Group is a going concern.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and We confirm that: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
isappropriate: and The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant theConsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and However, because not all future events or conditions can be Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability Statements of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 59. to continue as a going concern.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, The assessed risks of material misstatement described below as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, Act 2006. theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts ofthe engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition The Groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to We assessed the revenue recognition policies applied in the Group, make anumber of estimates, with the most significant relating including the valuation and timing of revenue recognition with to provisions for chargebacks, product returns, rebates and reference to the relevant revenue recognition criteria in IFRSs.
price adjustments see Notes 2 and 3 which vary by product We challenged the key judgements such as the expected value of arrangements and buying groups.
chargebacks, product returns and price adjustments by performing Additionally, for certain pharmaceutical products there may be analytical and substantive procedures.
Substantive procedures uncertainty over the ultimate net selling price.
Due to price volatility included examining third party statements and data e. g. and the length of time that products can take to reach the end external prescription data, sampling chargeback payments customer, revenue cannot always be reliably measured at the time processed subsequent to the year end to assess run rates and ofshipment.
In these circumstances, revenue recognition is delayed challenging management estimates of channel inventory.
until a reliable estimate can be made.
As there is significant management judgement in determining the level of inventory within the distribution network, this is an area ofaudit focus.
116 Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Group holds goodwill and intangible assets totalling Management completed impairment reviews where indicators $602 million see Notes 3 and 14.
These relate to Hikmas acquired of impairment existed or where an annual impairment review manufacturing operations and investments in associates which was required for assets with an indefinite useful life or goodwill.
management is required to assess for impairment.
The significant We assessed each of the impairment reviews by critically reviewing value of these items and the judgemental nature of assumptions the estimated future cash flows by considering the historical included within the impairment models, in particular the growth accuracy of budgeting and through our understanding of the future rates inherent in the forecasts and the discount rate assumption, prospects of the business or investment.
We worked with internal make this an area of audit focus.
valuation specialists to challenge the discount rates, comparing assumptions to external market data.
Where significant judgements were made we also carried out sensitivity analyses to assess their impact.
Taxation The Groups worldwide operations are highly integrated and We challenged the judgements made by the Directors and evaluated involve a number of cross-border transactions.
As a result there is the appropriateness of the provisions for both known and uncertain complexity and judgement surrounding the tax liabilities due to the tax positions and their related disclosures.
Working with our authorities in the various tax jurisdictions, including transfer pricing own taxation specialists, we obtained the latest correspondence considerations see Notes 2, 11 and 17. between the Group and the relevant tax authorities, understood the judgements made by the Directors in respect of the various open issues, held meetings with senior management and consulted the Groups external tax advisers to assess their views on these.
Inventory valuation At 31 December 2014, the Group held gross inventories of We challenged the assumptions over inventory provisions by: $273 million and inventory provisions of $50 million see Note 19. reviewing the historical ageing of inventory: The Directors make significant judgements regarding the value of identifying and assessing aged and obsolete inventory when attending inventory provisions for obsolescence and short-dated items.
inventory counts: analysing the level of short-dated inventory and the associated provision: testing the expected volume and price of future sales of the stock by reviewing the price of inventory sold after the balance sheet date: and reviewing the historical accuracy of inventory provisioning and the level of inventory write-offs during the year.
Acquisition accounting The Group acquired the assets of Bedford Laboratories during We worked with our internal valuation specialists to evaluate the period for total consideration of $229 million see Note 41. managements judgements in determining the fair value estimates There are a number of significant management judgements and the valuation of acquired intangibles.
We also tested the validity and assumptions used in the valuation of assets acquired, and completeness of the consideration paid.
liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: and the recognition and measurement of any goodwill.
Assumptions included discount rates, economic useful lives, inflation and growth rates.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page76.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
117 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the In our opinion: financial statements that makes it probable that the economic the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report ofouraudit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared We determined materiality for the Group to be $18 million isconsistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $360,000 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 2013:$300,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our opinion: inour view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified we have not received all the information and explanations we require forour audit: or when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent An overview of the scope of our audit Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of frombranches not visited by us: or the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with and assessing the risks of material misstatement at Group level.
Based onthat assessment, we focused our Group audit scope We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
primarily on the audit work at 13 locations, all of which were subject to a full audit.
In 2013, we selected the same locations and all but Directors remuneration one were subject to a full scope audit: the other was subject to an Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in audit of certain specified accounts balances.
These locations include our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not Jordan and the US, represent the principal business units and account been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be for 82% 2013: 84% of the Groups net assets, 97% 2013: 96% audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
of the Groups revenue and 88% 2013: 100% of the Groups We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material Corporate Governance Statement misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 13 locations Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys entity which were lower than Group materiality, ranging from compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance $6 million to $9 million 2013: $6 million to $9 million.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process Our duty to read other information in the annual report and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual aggregated financial information of the remaining components not report is: subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or significant of them including Jordan and the US at least once a year.
In 2014, the Group Partners visited the US, Jordan and Portugal.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
118 Financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements in accordance with applicable law and International assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements our dedicated professional standards review team and independent and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect partner reviews.
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the implications for our report.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Paul Franek FCA in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Senior statutory auditor permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
