Home Retail Group 64 Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc Group Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 March 2014 and of the Groups pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Home Retail Group plc, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 1 March 2014: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated statement of cash ows and the Analysis of net cash debt for the year then ended: and the notes to the Consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of signi cant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identi ed as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 8.6 million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to average benchmark pro t before tax over the previous five-year period because in our view, this is an appropriate measure of performance in a business that has had relatively stable volumes but volatile pro ts.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identi ed during our audit above 0.5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured along four operating segments being Argos, Homebase, Financial Services and Central Activities.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network rms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether suf cient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the Groups four operating segments, we identi ed the largest three Argos, Homebase and Financial Services, that in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including testing parts of the Central Activities segment and with respect to goodwill impairment testing and consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 65 Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of signi cant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identi ed by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be signi cant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 41.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated managements future cash ow projections, including comparing them to the latest We focused on this area because the Board approved budget and five-year plan.
determination of whether or not an impairment We tested the underlying calculations in the impairment models.
charge was necessary involved signi cant management judgement about the future results We challenged: of the Argos and Homebase segments of the the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to business, including future cash ow projections market information and economic forecasts: and using sales, gross margin and cost based the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and comparable organisations.
The cash ow projections were extrapolated using long-term growth rates and We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash ow projections, which were discounted using a post-tax discount rate.
included future revenue, gross margin and cost projections.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such movement in those key assumptions arising.
Impairment of store card receivables We evaluated and tested the controls in place around arrears management and bad debt monitoring.
The provision for credit risk on store card We then tested the accuracy of the calculations in managements provision model.
receivables is calculated using a model based on We challenged the model and key assumptions therein including: inputs including analysis of historic losses, current testing historic losses to customer data: level of arrears and economic factors, with testing the reconciliation and allocation of arrears to supporting information: and management judgement overlaid.
testing of manual adjustments to the model such as additional provisions made for speci c risks We focused on this area as there is a complex and by understanding the basis for these adjustments and agreeing to supporting information.
signi cant judgement involved in estimating such provisions.
Provisions for customer redress in respect of We obtained the results of managements testing of closed cases, and assessed the customer redress Financial Services products provision with reference to actual claim experience, rates of redress and costs associated with The Groups Financial Services division offers PPI historic redress payments.
We also considered industry information available in these areas.
to customers for which a provision is recognised in We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers in the model, which included customer respect of estimated future customer redress.
response rates and rates of redress.
We focused on this area as there is signi cant judgement involved in estimating such provisions.
Inventory provisions In testing the inventory provisions we focused on historic loss experience to assess the provisions for Inventory represents a signi cant asset on the loss, theft or damage of inventory.
Groups balance sheet and is carried at the lower of We assessed the net realisable value and obsolescence provisions against the historic rate of cost and net realisable value.
provisioning and actual recoveries achieved on clearances during the year.
We focused on this area as judgement is required when assessing the need for and the value of We tested the accuracy of the provision calculation and we evaluated updates to the provision obsolescence provisions.
calculation for the impact of changes in product mix and clearance routes.
Home Retail Group 66 Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Store based provisions for onerous leases and We evaluated the basis adopted by management for determining whether an onerous lease or store store asset impairment asset impairment exists.
This involved obtaining an analysis of stores and challenging the trading Onerous lease provisions are established for stores income and the nature of costs included in managements provision models.
that have either closed or where the projected We compared the cash ow forecasts used in the provision models to those used in the goodwill future trading income is insuf cient to cover the impairment model and tested any differences arising.
lower of exit cost or cost of running the store.
In addition, store assets are assessed for We tested the accuracy of the underlying calculations in the provision models.
impairment with reference to trading performance.
We focused on this area because of the complexity of judgements management need to form about the future results of the business.
Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the IT systems as the foundation of the evidence that we obtained regarding the ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud revenue recognised during the period.
We focused on whether We evaluated the management controls in place over revenue, including business performance revenue recorded had been earned and whether reviews at an Operating Company and Group level.
the treatment of manual adjustments to revenue were appropriate.
We tested this area as a We tested the key revenue account reconciliations to identify unusual or irregular items and we consequence of the magnitude and judgemental tested such entries.
nature of these manual adjustments which relate to discounts and commission.
We tested the calculations supporting the discounts and commission, challenging the appropriateness of assumptions applied.
We also tested material journal entries posted to revenue accounts and obtained appropriate evidence for any unusual or irregular items.
Risk of management override of internal We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to controls whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and discussed fraud with senior management and the head of ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the signi cant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We tested some smaller value items and some higher risk areas in an unpredictable manner compared with previous periods.
We also tested a sample of journal entries.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 34 to 38 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 67 Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 63 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 41, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the signi cant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Home Retail Group plc for the year ended 1 March 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 30 April 2014
