Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc Opinion on financial In our opinion: 120 statements of Howden t he financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Joinery Group Plc companys affairs as at 27 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: t he Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: t he parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and t he financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
This also comprises the Parent Company Balance Sheet and related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 66 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: w e have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and w e have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Our assessment of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest 121 risks of material effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the misstatement engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The recoverability of trade debtors and We have challenged managements assumptions appropriateness of the bad debt provision in calculating the bad debt provision.
This Management judgement is required in includes reviewing the ageing of receivables determining the completeness of the trade in comparison to previous years, testing the receivables provision and in assessing its integrity of ageing and reviewing the level of bad adequacy through considering the expected debt write offs in the current year and against recoverability of the year-end trade receivables the prior year.
We also checked the recoverability 110.2m gross of a 7.3m provision.
Further of outstanding debtors through examination information is included in note 3 and note 18. of subsequent cash receipts and tested the operating effectiveness of the relevant credit control procedures management has in place.
The appropriateness of the stock We have tested that the book value of stock does obsolescence provision not exceed its net realisable value by comparing Management judgement is required in the actual sales value to the book value for determining the completeness of the stock a sample of lines.
We have challenged the obsolescence provision 155.5m gross of a assumptions used in arriving at managements 12.4m provision and making an assessment stock obsolescence provision.
In respect of of its adequacy.
In particular, the judgement discontinued ranges, we have checked the dates involved determining the appropriate provision they were discontinued, assessed the ageing percentage based on the level of forecast sales.
and the level of provision applied.
We have Further information is included in note 3 and also reviewed the actual and forecast sales of note 17. those provisioned stock lines to check that the provision percentage applied is appropriate.
The appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions We have used our pension specialists to assist used in determining the defined benefit pension us in assessing the appropriateness of the scheme deficit assumptions underlying the valuation of the Management judgement is required in determining pension deficit by reviewing the actuarial report the key actuarial assumptions that underpin the and challenging each of the assumptions by calculation of the defined benefit deficit 142.6m.
comparison to available market data.
We have In particular, the discount rate, inflation rate and also assessed the competence of the actuaries mortality assumptions.
Further information is used by management in determining the included in note 3 and note 21. actuarial assumptions.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: provision for vacant properties.
The number of vacant properties has fallen in the year and the risk of an understated provision is no longer considered to be a key risk to the Group financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 55 to 60.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it of materiality probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8m 2013: 6m, which is approximately 5% 2013: 5% of profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 160,000 2013: 120,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc continued An overview of the Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 122 scope of our audit Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, our Group audit scope focused on the UK, French and Belgian trading entities and each of the Head Office companies which was consistent with the prior year.
All of these entities were subject to a full scope audit and this gave us coverage of 100% of the Groups net assets, revenues and profit before tax for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014.
Audits of all locations are performed at a materiality level determined by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The materiality levels used ranged between 50% and 95% of Group materiality.
Opinion on other In our opinion: matters prescribed t he part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in by the Companies accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Act 2006 t he information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: explanations w e have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or received and a dequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate accounting records for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or t he parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures remuneration of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Statement Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, other information in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: in the Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or a pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for 123 responsibilities of the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
directors and auditor Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements of the financial sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 25 February 2015
