FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Hunting PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Hunting PLCs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2014: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: $8.0 million, based on 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and oil and gas exploration and development assets Audit scope We conducted audit work in 6 countries covering 24 operating units and visited a number of audit locations, including the one significant component, Hunting Titan Our audit scope accounted for over 90% of Group revenues and the Group profit before tax from continuing operations adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and oil and gas exploration and development assets Areas of focus Goodwill impairment assessment Oil and gas exploration and development asset impairment Corporate tax exposures The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We tested managements identification of the CGUs, considering business Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, page 141 accounting policies changes that would prompt a change to the classification of CGUs.
In order and note 16. to test the impairment assessment model, we challenged and evaluated the future cash flow forecasts for the identified CGUs and the process by The Group holds $440.6m of goodwill on the balance sheet, mainly arising which they were drawn up and tested the accuracy of the underlying from historic acquisitions in the US.
Goodwill valuation is a judgemental and calculations.
We found that management has followed a clear process for complex area as it depends on the future financial performance of the cash drawing up the future cash flow forecasts, which was subject to oversight generating unit CGU and future market performance.
In particular there is and challenge by the directors and which was consistent with Board significant uncertainty in the oil and gas market as a result of the impact of the approved budgets, which have been revised to reflect current market recent decline in oil prices.
As such the key judgemental areas are the short conditions.
term revenue and margin growth rate, terminal growth rates and the discount rate.
As part of our testing we challenged the following key assumptions: The short term revenue and profit assumptions and how management We focused, in particular, on the estimated value in use of the Hunting has incorporated the impact of the recent decline in oil prices, by Electronics CGU, which has a closing net book value of goodwill of $28.7m comparing them to historical results and the current order book, and has been impaired by $40.0m 58% of the balance assessed in the year, agreeing the short term growth rate to specialist third party published and the Drilling Tools CGU, which has a closing net book value of goodwill of reports and considering the impact already observed within the market: $4.4m and has been impaired by $9.6m 69% of the balance assessed, in the Terminal growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical closing year.
These impairments reflect the respective CGUs subdued results, economic and industry forecasts: and financial performance in the year, as a result of increased competition, the The discount rates by assessing the cost of capital assumption for each impact of the decline in oil prices on forecast revenue and the prolonged CGU and comparable organisations.
We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with our Additionally we focused on those CGUs with lower headroom between their expectations.
carrying value and value in use, as judgements are even more critical for these CGUs, and on the Hunting Titan CGU, as it accounts for 65% of the goodwill In respect of the Hunting Electronics and Drilling Tools CGUs, we sensitised held on the balance sheet.
each key driver of the cash flow forecasts, including the underlying assumptions listed above, by determining what we considered to be a reasonably possible change in assumption, based on current market data and historical and current business performance.
Through this we determined an appropriate range of value in use for each CGU.
We concluded that the combined $49.6m impairment charge recognised by management is within this appropriate range.
For all other CGUs, in particular Hunting Titan and those with lower relative headroom, we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to change before an impairment was triggered.
We discussed the likelihood of such a movement with management and agreed with their conclusion that it was unlikely.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Oil and gas exploration and development asset impairment assessment In order to test managements impairment model, we challenged and Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, page 141 accounting policies evaluated the future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they and note 15. were drawn up and tested the underlying calculations.
In particular, for each of the following significant assumptions we challenged: The Group holds $12.5m of oil and gas exploration and development assets The forecast oil price by agreeing it to published forecast future oil on the balance sheet, which is net of a $9.6m impairment recognised during prices: the year.
Managements impairment model for the estimated value in use of The estimated oil reserves by agreeing them to independent third party oil and gas exploration and development assets is judgemental and complex, reserves engineer reports and agreed that the reserves engineer is as it depends on the future financial performance of the assets and future appropriately accredited: and market performance.
In particular it is dependent on estimated oil reserves The discount rate by assessing the cost of capital assumption against and forecast oil prices, which can fluctuate significantly.
The impairment of $9.6m recognised in the year reflects the decrease in We found the assumptions to be appropriate and in line with our forecast oil price and a decrease in estimated oil reserves.
We sensitised each key driver of the cash flow forecasts, including the underlying assumptions listed above, by determining what we considered to be a reasonably possible change in assumption, based on current market data and historical and current business performance.
Through this we determined an appropriate range of value in use for oil and gas exploration and development assets.
We concluded that the impairment of $9.6m recognised by management is within this appropriate range.
Corporate tax exposures We read the latest correspondence between the Group and tax authorities.
Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, page 141 accounting policies We discussed potential corporate tax exposures with senior Group and note 21. management, and the basis for their positions with the Groups in-house tax specialists.
The Group operates in a number of different countries and is therefore subject to many tax regimes around the world.
Provisions are estimated for uncertain We reviewed the calculations of the provisions, and considered: tax positions and disputes with tax authorities, including transactions between Group companies.
These are measured in accordance with relevant The accuracy of the calculations and ensured that appropriate tax rates accounting standards.
We considered this an area of focus because of the have been used: judgement required by management to assess matters across multiple Key judgements made by management in determining the probability jurisdictions.
of potential outcomes: and Managements assessment of the Groups exposure and provisions by retrospectively evaluating the outcome of reviews made by tax authorities.
Our review of these judgements utilised our specialist tax knowledge, in the UK and overseas, and experience in the oil and gas and oilfield services industry as well as our experience of similar challenges elsewhere.
In addition to evaluating the provisions individually, we performed a holistic review of the Groups tax position at year end and the Groups effective tax rate.
Through these procedures we corroborated managements positon on the level of their tax exposures and provisions and disclosures made in the financial statements and that the provisions were in line with the Groups policies and that the methodology and policies have been applied consistently.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of entities covering non-trading legal entities, centralised functions and 31 operating units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we considered the type of work that needed to be performed at the operating units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the extent of audit work needed at those operating units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups operating units vary significantly in size and we identified 12 operating units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 12 operating units, to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at the Group level.
In doing so we conducted work in 6 countries and the Group audit team visited multiple reporting locations in the US, which included visiting Hunting Titan, the one significant component, and the United Kingdom.
Together, the operating units subject to audit procedures accounted for over 90% of Group revenues and Group profit before tax from continuing operations adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and oil and gas exploration and development assets.
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, treasury, pensions and impairment, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, consistent with last year, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality $8.0 million 2013: $7.5 million How we determined it Based on 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and oil and gas exploration and development assets Rationale for benchmark applied We applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is an appropriate metric against which the performance of the Group is measured and of the recurring Group performance We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.4 million 2013: $0.3 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on pages 50 and 51, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 52 to 55 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report arising from apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company this responsibility.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 54, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no exceptions the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the to report arising from information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 77 to 79, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the received Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving opinion: these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to We have not received all the information and explanations we require any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may for our audit: or come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches What an audit of financial statements involves not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused and returns.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Adequately disclosed: Directors remuneration The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion directors: and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The overall presentation of the financial statements.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors Other Companies Act 2006 reporting judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable Corporate governance statement basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of opinion, the corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially report having performed our review.
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out Nicholas Campbell-Lambert Senior Statutory Auditor on page 51, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial for and on behalf of  LLP statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 5 March 2015 statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
