Independent auditors report to the members of Imagination Technologies Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Imagination Technologies Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2014 set out on pages 76 to 119.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Percentage of completion revenue recognition for license contracts 38,324,000 Refer to page 50 Audit Committee statement, page 82 Accounting Policy and page 87 financial disclosure The risk: The percentage of completion method based on costs to complete is used to recognize revenue for licence contracts modified to meet specific customer requirements.
This method of recognizing revenue involves a number of judgements, the main one being an assessment of the extent of progress towards completion of the contract.
The complexity of the estimation process and the costs to complete assumptions such as budgeted hours to complete applied in the Groups revenue recognition policies require significant judgement and could have a material impact on the revenue reported in the financial statements.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others: testing the Groups controls over the approval of licence contracts and monitoring progress of licence completion and development: assessing the revenue recognition policies to ensure that these are compliant with IFRS and have been applied consistently across the Group: obtaining a selection of licence contracts based on the magnitude of the individual contract and or revenue recognized in the year and through discussions with the chief operating officer, we challenged the cost to complete assumptions in particular, the status of contracted licences, assumptions used in the forecasts such as budgeted hours to complete, development work in the period, determining the financial and technology status of contracts selected and ensuring that this corresponded with the percentage of completion calculations: retrospective testing of the prior year percentage of completion estimates to analyse the Groups historical accuracy in their estimations: evaluating the reasonableness of hours charged by comparing actual against budget: obtaining evidence of the percentage of completion estimates, such as budgeted and actual hours and milestone achievement records, and considering whether these support the estimates made.
We also assessed the Groups disclosures about the significant judgements and estimates made in respect of the revenue generated from license contracts.
Carrying amount of goodwill 59,834,000 Refer to page 50 Audit Committee statement, page 85 Accounting Policy and page 87 financial disclosure The risk: An impairment assessment of goodwill is carried out annually using a value in use model, using the business forecasts.
This area remains a significant risk due to the inherent levels of judgement involved in the impairment testing and the quantum of goodwill.
The goodwill balances are material to the financial statements and the risk is that these are materially overstated if impairment reviews are not performed appropriately.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among others, testing of the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and the principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model.
We challenged the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating to the forecast revenue growth and profit margins.
We compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, cost inflation and discount rates, as well as performing break-even analysis on the assumptions.
We compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalization to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 73 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 1,200,000.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 0.7% of Group revenue.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 60,000.
We also agreed to report any audit misstatement below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Full scope audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at the key reporting components in the UK and the US.
These Group procedures covered 99% of total Group revenue: 83% of Group loss before taxation absolute : and 98% of total Group assets.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at key reporting components were performed by the group team to a materiality level of at 1,200,000 for the UK audit and 600,000 for the US audit.
The US component audit was led by the group engagement partner with assistance from our US KPMG network firm in performing audit procedures.
The Group engagement partner and manager visited the US component to perform this audit.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on page 44 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Significant issues that the Committee considered in relation to the financial statements section of the Audit committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate governance statement on page 46 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
74 Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 43, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 24 June 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial report 75
