146 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 4.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended We identified the following risks to have the greatest effect on the overall audit 31 December 2014 set out on pages 84 to 152.
In our opinion: strategy: the allocation of audit resources: and on directing the efforts of the audit engagement team.
In addressing these risks we have performed the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the detailed procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014: statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Group profit for these individual areas.
the year ended 31 December 2014: Area of focus the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Revenue and profit recognition European Union: Refer to page 53 of the Audit Committee report.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared The completeness, occurrence and measurement of revenue and recognition of in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and profit is considered to be a significant risk across the Group.
The cyclical nature of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the deliveries within the Critical Engineering divisions results in significant shipments requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group near the December period end which increases the risk of a cut-off error.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
How our audit work addressed the area of focus 2.
What we have audited To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: We audited the Group financial statements of IMI plc for the year-ended we carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on 31 December 2014 which comprise: those related to the timing of revenue recognition: we performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with Group Company expectations from past experience, managements forecasts and, where The Group income statement The Company balance sheet: possible, external market data: The Group statement of comprehensive income The related notes C1 to C10.
we obtained support for individually unusual and or material revenue journals: The Group balance sheet we performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to ensure The Group cash flow statement the transactions had been appropriately recorded in the income statement.
The Group statement of changes in equity We verified that the risks and rewards of ownership of the products had been The related sections 1 to 5. transferred to the customer by analysing the contract and terms of the sale to ensure the Group had fulfilled the requirements of the contract, confirming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the ensuring collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting collection history and ensuring that the costs of the transactions could be Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting traced and supported to bills of materials and expenses incurred: framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company we performed cut-off testing on third party delivery note documentation financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards and customer acceptance around the period end: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
in respect of the Critical Engineering division we audited managements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance assessment of forecast costs to complete, corroborating the underlying with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been assumptions against historic experience and future production plans to undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters ensure any contract losses are appropriately recognised.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Area of focus to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, Inventory valuation for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Refer to page 53 of the Audit Committee report.
Overview The valuation of inventory across the Group is dependent on establishing Materiality - Overall Group materiality of 12.4 million which appropriate valuation controls and physical counting procedures.
This includes represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax reliance on manual processes.
Management judgement is applied to formulaic calculations for standard costing and excess and obsolete inventory provisions.
Audit scope - We performed an audit of the complete financial If these judgements are not appropriate then this increases the risk that information of 13 entities and audit procedures on inventory is inappropriately stated.
specific balances for a further 31 entities - The 44 reporting components where we performed How our audit work addressed the area of focus audit procedures accounted for 65% of the Groups To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: revenue, 87% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax we carried out testing on controls over inventory valuation to verify the Group and 82% of the Groups total assets values inventory appropriately: Areas of focus - Revenue and profit recognition we tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, ensuring the valuation - Inventory valuation reflected the physical inventory counts and the products stage of completion - Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities including agreement to the physical inventory counts we attended: - The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and we tested the appropriateness of overhead absorption in the inventory acquired intangible assets valuation by analysing the nature of costs being absorbed, verifying the level of costs to be absorbed based on production data: and we audited the adequacy of excess and or obsolete provisions held against inventory by verifying future demand data, historical usage, historical accuracy of provisioning and future plans of management to utilise the inventory.
147 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Area of focus we assessed the appropriateness of the amortisation rates and useful economic lives of intangible assets allocated to CGUs on acquisition to ensure Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities the lives were consistent with their usage and future economic inflows, for Refer to page 53 of the Audit Committee report.
customer relationships and order books that the values corresponded with The actuarial assumptions used to value the UK and overseas pension scheme the expected underlying economic substance of future transactions and that liabilities are judgemental and sensitive.
Due to the significance of the value of the performance of CGUs with significant intangible asset values remained the pension obligation, a small change in assumptions may result in a material consistent with the original business plans upon acquisition of the CGUs: difference to amounts reported.
we performed sensitivity analysis on managements cash flow forecasts to gain comfort over the level of headroom in the impairment models: and How our audit work addressed the area of focus through completion of the above procedures we assessed the To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: appropriateness of the impairment charge recorded by the Group we understood and walked through managements controls in respect of in respect of the Remosa CGU of 26.9m.
the selection of key assumptions related to valuation of actuarial liabilities.
The above risk areas are consistent with those in the prior year with the using external data we verified the appropriateness of the key actuarial exception of the valuation of the Scottish Limited Partnership and the assumptions, as detailed in section 4.5.
3.2 of the consolidated financial accounting treatment for the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses which statements, used by management, in determining the pension obligation were considered to be areas of focus for the 2013 audit.
See Section 4.5 under IAS19 R to ensure their assumptions were appropriate, met the for details regarding the Scottish Limited Partnership asset.
However, as the requirements of IFRS and were in line with market practice.
valuation principles are now confirmed, auditing this asset no longer constitutes this included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant mortality a significant proportion of audit effort or audit strategy.
While the gain on tables, benchmarking inflation and discount rates against external market disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses is realised in the 2014 Annual Report data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating the and Accounts, the key judgements and assumptions underpinning the gain independence, qualifications and results of work performed by managements on the disposal were audited in the prior year as disclosed in our 2013 Audit experts involved in the valuation process.
See section 2.5 for details of the disposal.
we used our pension specialists to assist us with these procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Area of focus As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired on page 145, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group intangible assets financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards As a consequence of the Groups growth strategy a significant value of on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the goodwill and intangible assets has arisen from acquisitions.
There is a risk Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
that cash generating units CGUs may not achieve the anticipated business performance to support the carrying value of these assets leading to an 6.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements impairment charge that has not been recognised by management.
Significant judgement is required in assessing the future cash flows of the CGU, together An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the with the rate at which they are discounted.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or How our audit work addressed the area of focus error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are To address this risk the following audit procedures have been undertaken: appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness we walked through managements controls in respect of their assessment of the valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets and ensured these are of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial designed and implemented effectively: and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify we examined managements methodology, as detailed in section 3.2.
2 of the material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify consolidated financial statements, and models for assessing the valuation of any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially significant goodwill balances to confirm the composition of managements inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or up including timely oversight and challenge by the Directors and that the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
underlying cash flows were consistent with the Board approved budgets: in accordance with the requirements of IAS36: Impairment of Assets, 7.
Our application of materiality management performed an impairment test on all CGUs that have goodwill We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 12.4 million 2013: allocated.
In respect of the CGUs identified as having impairment indicators 16.1 million, which is 5% 2013: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We believe or low levels of head room we performed detailed testing to critically assess that profit before tax, adjusted for the items described below, provides us with a and corroborate the key inputs of the forecast cash flows including: consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant - Corroborating the discount rate used through analysing the cost of capital performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
The reduction from for the Group and comparable organisations: the prior year predominantly reflects the disposal of the Beverage Dispense - Validating the growth rate assumed by comparing them to economic and and Merchandising divisions which occurred on 1 January 2014.
In calculating materiality, we excluded the effects of certain non-recurring items from profit industry forecasts: before tax.
For 2014, these related to the impairment losses of 40.8 million, - Analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results ensuring the gain on disposals of subsidiaries of 34.2 million, pension settlement gains the forecast cash flows are reliable based on past experience.
of 7.0 million and acquisition costs of 1.8 million as highlighted on page 84 for the CGUs where indicators of impairment existed we calculated the of the financial statements.
Our materiality provided a basis for determining degree to which the key assumptions would need to move before an the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and impairment conclusion was triggered: assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
148 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance pages 42 to 51 of the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about balance for the Group should be 50% 2013: 50% of planning materiality, share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Our objective in adopting this approach 10.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception was to ensure that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our Audit work at individual entities is undertaken based on a percentage of opinion, information in the Annual Report is: our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the entity and our view of the risk materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: of misstatement at that entity.
In the current year the range of performance or materiality allocated to entities was 0.7 million to 1.8 million.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.6 million 2013: 0.8 million, as well as is otherwise misleading.
differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any qualitative grounds.
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report and Accounts qualitative considerations.
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
An overview of the scope of our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group in our opinion: financial statements, we selected 44 2013: 45 entities which represent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 13 of these entities 2013: 16 were subject to a full audit and 31 entities visited by us: or 2013: 29 were subject to a partial scope audit where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement outlined the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors above and the materiality of the entities business operations relative to the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting Group.
Partial scope entity testing of significant risks is primarily focused on records and returns: or revenue recognition and inventory valuation as the assessment of the carrying certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets and pension scheme liabilities or are audited centrally.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our In total the audit of these entities provides coverage of 65% 2013: 68% of the audit: or Groups revenue, 87% 2013: 78% of the Groups profit before tax and 82% a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Full scope entity audits provides coverage of 38% 2013: 48% of the Groups revenue, 25% 2013: 40% of the Groups Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: profit before tax and 56% 2013: 49% of the Groups assets.
Partial scope the directors statement, set out on page 145, in relation to going concern: and entity audits provide coverage of 27% 2013: 20% of the Groups revenue, the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys 62% 2013: 39% of the Groups profit before tax and 26% 2013: 22% of the compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Groups assets, although for entities where a partial scope audit was performed, specified for our review.
not all balances that comprise these coverage percentages have been audited.
The audit work at the 44 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than Group audit materiality.
Andrew Walton Senior statutory auditor The Groups remaining 96 trading locations have an average revenue of 6 for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor million and average profit before tax of 0.3 million.
In addition, these locations Birmingham do not have common systems and controls.
As a consequence, we consider 26 February 2015 the likelihood of any systematic error arising within this population to be low.
Notwithstanding this, for the remaining 96 locations we undertook analytical 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility and enquiry procedures to address the residual risk of material misstatement.
of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve The Group audit team focused its involvement in higher risk areas through consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no regular conference calls with entity teams including discussion of the work responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial performed in relation to the significant risks and review of key working papers.
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
In addition, the Group team follows a programme of site visits to higher risk 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and locations.
During 2014 the Group team visited 17 of the full and specific dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in scope entities within the Group.
Comparative amounts exclude entities audited in 2013 that were part of 9.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the Retail Dispense businesses which the Group sold on 1 January 2014.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and
