INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC Report on the Group Financial Statements Our Opinion In our opinion, Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs group financial statements the financial statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What We Have Audited Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs financial statements comprise: The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2014: The Consolidated Income Statement for the year then ended: The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our Audit Approach Overview Overall group materiality: 110 million which represents 4.4 per cent of adjusted group profit before taxation.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements we selected 18 reporting entities which represent the principal business units.
We conducted full scope audit work at these 18 reporting entities, which included Materiality significant operations based in the UK, Germany, Spain, USA, Morocco, Australia, France and six other locations.
We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia and Ukraine based on our assessment of the risk of misstatement and the scale of operations at those business units.
In addition certain central reporting entities and group functions, including those covering treasury, taxation and pensions, and the Parent Company were subject to a full Audit scope scope audit.
The full scope reporting entities and group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 75 per cent of group revenues and in excess of 90 per cent of both group profit before taxation and adjusted group profit before taxation.
As part of the supervision process site visits and video conferences were conducted.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of Areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below.
focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition focused on revenue sold into distribution channels at year end.
Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions held against risks.
66 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The Scope of Our Audit and Our Areas of Focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Our observations on the areas below were based on the evidence obtained to support our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, note 2 for judgements and estimates and note 11 for detailed Intangible assets disclosures.
We focused on this area because the determination of whether or We challenged the Directors analysis around the key business not certain elements of goodwill and intangible assets were impaired drivers of the cash flow forecasts supporting their impairment involved complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about assessment, being pricing, market size, and market share.
We also the future results of the relevant parts of the business.
evaluated the appropriateness of the key assumptions including discount rates, short-term growth and long-term growth rates and At 30 September 2014 the Group had 10,568 million of goodwill performed a range of sensitivities across the reporting segments.
and 5,291 million of intangible assets and reasonable headroom In particular: for the majority of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs.
For the Russian business, we considered the Directors We focused on the valuation of the Growth Markets reporting expectations about the impact of the Groups stock optimisation segment 4,106 million of goodwill and intangible assets.
Growth programme and the balance between the capacity for price Markets is made up of a number of operating segments and increases and underlying volume declines.
We also discussed individual CGUs, including the Drive Growth operating segment and the potential impact of duty and regulated pricing changes the Premium Cigar CGU.
For both of these businesses goodwill is under consideration by the Russian parliament.
separately measured and managements assessment indicates lower headroom 240 million and 170 million respectively.
For the Premium Cigar CGU, we evaluated the reasonableness of the Directors forecast by challenging assumptions about growth For the Drive Growth operating segment we focused on the valuation strategies involving opportunities in new markets and planned of the Russian business, which is the most material CGU included in operational improvements.
In particular we considered the key expectation that the Russian business will achieve a significant profit improvement see For both Russia and Premium Cigar CGU we reached the view that note 11 in the short term.
the planned level of profit growth appears achievable, but that there was sufficient uncertainty to require further sensitivity analysis around For the Premium Cigar CGU the valuation is dependent on the key assumptions.
continuing profit growth in emerging markets and operational improvements see note 11.
As such, we focused on the As a result of this we determined that the impairment assessments assumptions the Directors made about the growth rates in for both Drive Growth and Premium Cigar were acceptable based on these areas.
However, for Drive Growth we consider that a deterioration of Russian economic conditions in excess of that reflected in the assumptions or an inability to achieve planned results could reasonably be expected to give rise to an impairment charge in the future.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 67 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition focused on the occurrence of revenue sold into distribution channels at year end See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies.
We focused on the timing of revenue recognition because of the We tested the timing of revenue recognition, and whether the Group risk associated with the levels of inventory sold into, and held in, appropriately recorded revenue taking into account contractual terms distribution channels and the contractual terms those goods were and obligations with distributors and other customers.
key distributors we obtained details of the amount of inventory held by them in the channel and compared this to prior periods.
We Revenue recognition is, under normal group terms and conditions, also used this information in our evaluation of the impact on the not complex with accounts receivable converted to cash in a timely financial statements of the Groups stock optimisation programme.
Returns have historically been immaterial and our testing did We noted no instances of inappropriate revenue recognition arising not identify any evidence of significant levels of returns.
There is however a risk that sales made into distribution channels We evaluated contractual terms around the year end and tested close to a period end could be overstated.
If such sales were not accounts receivable balances through a combination of third party legitimate then this could result in material amounts of revenue being confirmations and subsequent remittances, with no exceptions noted recorded in the incorrect period and could affect managements from our testing.
We evaluated evidence of the level of returns incentive payments.
received after the year end and noted no material issues arising.
We also used a combination of manual and computer assisted audit techniques in order to extract and test journal entries posted to revenue and other general ledger accounts, which did not identify unexplained unusual or irregular items.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Tax accounting and the level of tax provision held against risks See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, note 2 for judgements and estimates and notes 8 and 21 for detailed taxation disclosures.
There are a number of significant judgements involved in the In the calculation of deferred taxes, we challenged management over determination of deferred tax balances, specifically in relation to the the adequacy of tax loss recognition in the Netherlands and Spain.
recognition of tax losses and the assessment of deferred taxation We also challenged whether a material deferred taxation provision liabilities in certain jurisdictions where the probability of temporary established in an overseas business was still required.
We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements Given the number of judgements involved and the complexities of was reasonable based on our review of managements assessment dealing with tax rules and regulations in numerous jurisdictions, this of the recoverability of tax losses and the basis for their write back of was an area of focus for us.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for restructuring provisions See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, note 5 for restructuring costs disclosure and note 23 for detailed provisions disclosures.
The Group has a significant restructuring programme underway.
We assessed the completeness of the restructuring amounts The programme is expected to last several years and as part of provided for using our knowledge of the business and prior period, this programme the Group announced the proposed closures of inquiries of management, examination of restructuring plans and major factories at Nantes and Nottingham during the year.
through consideration of expenses that typically are connected with exit and disposal activities.
Based on this, we did not identify any In 2014 the charge in the Consolidated Income Statement relating material omissions.
to this programme was 305 million and there is a total restructuring provision held on the Consolidated Balance Sheet of 321 million.
We tested the valuation and calculations of the individual restructuring provisions that made up the total including The recognition of restructuring costs requires judgement to estimate redundancy, impairment and pension curtailment.
We found the value and timing of net economic outflows and the extent to no material exceptions in these tests.
which the Group is externally committed.
The presentation in the financial statements also requires consideration of whether the We considered managements treatment of the restructuring costs amounts included in the charge are exceptional in nature.
as exceptional and agreed with their conclusion that the extensive scale and material cost of the project, together with the level of centralised group wide control and Board focus, indicated that it was exceptional in nature.
68 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS How We Tailored the Audit Scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along two business lines being Tobacco and Logistics.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of 349 legal entities represented by 223 reporting entities, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local or regional finance function for each of the territories in which the Group operates.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in Bristol UK through an integrated consolidation system.
In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, 18 of the 223 reporting entities, including the Logistics sub-group, required an audit of their complete financial information and we used component auditors from other PwC network firms, and other firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform this audit work.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
The group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis.
In the current year the group team engagement leader visited the USA, Morocco, Taiwan, Laos, Spain and Germany, as well as in-scope UK reporting locations.
Video conferences were held at least once with the component auditors and management of every in-scope reporting entity and those undertaking specific procedures.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement team at the head office.
These included derivative financial instruments, net investment hedge accounting, treasury, taxation and pensions.
The Parent Company is also subject to a full scope audit.
Taken together, the reporting entities and group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 75 per cent of group revenues and in excess of 90 per cent of both group profit before tax and group adjusted profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 110 million 2013: 114 million.
How we determined it 4.4 per cent of adjusted profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this benchmark we have had regard to adjusted profit before taxation as this metric is presented by the Directors as reflective of the business performance and because in our view this is the most relevant measure of results.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2013: 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 69 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued Other Required Reporting Consistency of Other Information Companies Act 2006 Opinion In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: ISAs UK and Ireland Reporting Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors, in accordance with Provision We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report, as required by Provision C. 3.8 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of Information and Explanations Received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors Remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit Our Responsibilities and Those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
70 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS What an Audit of Financial Statements Involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other Matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol 4 November 2014 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 71
