STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Inchcape plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Inchcape plcs financial statements comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality was 15 million which represented 5% of profit before tax before exceptional items.
Overall materiality We conducted our work in 16 countries covering 25 reporting units.
Scope The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 89% of the Groups revenues and 92% of the Groups profit before tax.
We instructed and maintained regular contact with the component audit teams we used and evaluated the outcome of their work.
Goodwill impairment assessment, particularly for Russia.
Areas of focus Recognition of manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
Implementation of new finance systems, including the transfer of data to new systems.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com 137 Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and Goodwill impairment assessment the process by which they were drawn up, including testing Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 83 accounting policies and page the underlying calculations and comparing them with the 111 note 11. latest Board approved budgets.
We challenged: As at 31 December 2014, the Group holds 402.6 million of projected vehicle volume and margin forecasts over the goodwill on the balance sheet across five main Cash Generating next five years by comparing them with external industry Units or groups of Cash Generating Units together CGUs, forecasts, where available, and historical and current results: as detailed in note 11 to the financial statements.
The risk is that these balances are overstated.
the long-term growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond year five the period covered by Board approved For the CGUs which contain goodwill, the determination of forecasts into perpetuity, by comparing them with historical recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair results and wider industry forecasts: and value less costs to dispose, requires judgement on the part of management in valuing the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable the discount rate, by independently calculating the cost of amounts are based on managements views of future trading capital for the Group.
performance and profitability and the most appropriate discount We evaluated the historical accuracy of budgets and forecasts, rate.
As required by accounting standards, management tests for example, comparing the budgets used in the prior year all CGUs containing goodwill for impairment on an annual basis.
value-in-use model against the actual performance of the We focused our testing on the estimated value in use of the business in the current year.
These procedures enabled us to Russian CGU, given the current economic climate in Russia.
assess the accuracy of the forecasting process.
In addition, management disclosed in the 31 December We challenged management on the appropriateness of its 2013 annual financial statements that the Russian goodwill sensitivity calculations, in particular the assumptions relating balance was sensitive to reasonably possible movements in to revenue growth decline, gross and operating margins and impairment assumptions.
the level of working capital required to support trading.
We As described further in note 11, management has recorded determined that the calculations were most sensitive to an impairment charge of 47.4 million against the goodwill in movements in the assumptions for long-term growth rates its Russian business, reducing the carrying value of the Russian and discount rates and, in Russia, vehicle gross margins.
For the Russian CGU, where the assets are now recorded at their recoverable amount, we calculated the extent to which managements assumptions would have to change for the impairment charge of 47.4 million to be materially misstated.
For all other CGUs, where no impairment has been recognised in 2014, we calculated the degree to which these assumptions would need to move before an impairment charge would have to be recognised.
Recognising the uncertainty of the Russian market in particular, we satisfied ourselves as to the reasonableness of the assumptions used and judgements made by management in determining the recoverable amount of each of the five main CGUs.
We also confirmed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 11 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to Russia and Lithuania.
Manufacturers bonuses and rebates Refer to page 83 accounting policies.
We understood and evaluated the controls and processes with respect to manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
In certain markets, principally the UK, the Group receives rebates which are based in part on sales targets set by the Original We agreed a sample of the amounts that were recognised in the Equipment Manufacturers OEMs.
The Group is also entitled income statement in the year, and the amounts accrued on the to further OEM bonuses and rebates dependent on achieving balance sheet at the year-end, to credit notes and cash received.
other targets including non-financial metrics.
The quantum of For rebates linked to individual vehicle sales, we recalculated the these amounts is material.
amounts recognised by multiplying the actual sales volumes by The manufacturers bonuses and rebates are usually determined the bonus earned per unit sold.
by the OEMs and have varying terms, the majority of which Confirmations were sent to a number of OEMs requesting are governed by annual agreements, whilst others are based confirmation of the total amount of manufacturers bonuses on shorter term arrangements entered into during the year.
earned in the year together with amounts earned but not yet We focused on this area as the amounts are material and paid to the Group at the year end.
Where confirmations were because not all bonuses and rebates are directly linked to not received from certain manufacturers we substantively tested quantitative measures, which means that the recognition of an additional sample by tracing to credit notes received from elements of these amounts requires management judgement the manufacturer and cash received.
and estimation in determining whether they have been earned as at the balance sheet date.
138 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 138 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of inventory Refer to page 83 accounting policies and page 118 note 17.
We considered the Groups past trading performance, including testing the levels of losses incurred on vehicle sales historically The Group holds 999.2 million of inventory which is held across and subsequent to the year-end, to evaluate the level of the Group in multiple locations.
provisioning and to assess the reasonableness and accuracy Inventory should be carried at the lower of cost and net realisable of managements provisioning methodology.
value, being selling price less estimated selling costs.
We established that the inventory provisions were appropriate As gross margins on sales of vehicle inventory can be low and by recalculating the inventory provisions in each country, using inventory is sometimes sold at a loss, provisions are recorded the provisioning policy, and comparing the results with the against inventory to write it down to managements best estimate actual provision level.
Management has established a formal We also verified the completeness and accuracy of any provisioning policy which is applied to inventory balances across additional provisions made by management outside of its the Group to write-down, where required, inventory held as standard policy where specific events or circumstances at the balance sheet date to net realisable value, based on warranted additional provisioning.
its understanding of historical performance and forecast future trading.
Our testing confirmed that the provisions were acceptable.
Tax exposures and provisions Refer to page 83 accounting policies and page 108 note 8.
We assessed the Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the related accounting policy of provisioning for The Group operates across a large number of tax jurisdictions tax exposures and determined that it was appropriate.
and is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the normal course of business We used our specialised tax knowledge to gain an understanding including transfer pricing, indirect taxes and transaction related of the current status of tax investigations and monitored tax matters.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had tax changes in ongoing disputes by reading recent rulings and provisions for uncertain tax positions.
correspondence with local tax authorities, as well as external advice received by the Group where relevant, to establish that Tax provisioning requires subjective judgements to be made by the tax provisions were appropriate.
We also considered the management about the expected ultimate settlement, if any, status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries, the outturn of a potential exposure.
of previous claims and the wider tax environment in each territory.
We confirmed the appropriateness of the related disclosures about the tax provisions and contingencies in note 8 and the level of estimation uncertainty in the tax provisions in note 8.
Implementation of the SAP ADP programmes Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 83 accounting policies and page We used our specialised IT knowledge to address the risk of 110 note 11. data being transferred incorrectly.
Inchcape is undergoing a programme to further improve financial We have performed detailed testing of the data migration controls and is implementing new ERP systems in all key markets.
for those new ERP systems implemented in the year.
We have The programme is expected to run for the next three years.
During reconciled the data migration trial balance to the post migration the year new systems have been implemented in Singapore, opening balances in the new system.
We have also reconciled the payables, fixed asset and The implementation of new ERP systems creates a risk that receivables data by comparing the data contained in the data may not be transferred completely and or accurately legacy system with the data in the new system, identifying no from existing systems during the period of implementation.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into six geographic operating segments Australasia, Europe, North Asia, South Asia, United Kingdom and Emerging Markets.
The operating businesses are further categorised into two market channels distribution and retail.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 56 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses within the six geographic segments and two market channels and centralised functions.
Further specific audit procedures over areas of significant judgement, including treasury, post-retirement benefits and material litigation, were performed at the Groups Head Office.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In 2014, we conducted our audit work in 16 countries covering 25 reporting units.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 89% of the Groups revenues and 92% of the Groups profit before tax.
com 139 Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc continued Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 15 million 2013: 13 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax before exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark as it provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and, we believe, is the metric most commonly used by the shareholders as a body in assessing the Groups performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.7 million 2013: 0.65 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
- apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or - otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 75, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to report arising from to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to this responsibility.
assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 53, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report arising from Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
140 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 140 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors Report on Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 9 March 2015 www.
