05 128 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 129 05 Directors responsibility statement Independent auditors report to the members of Infinis Energy plc only inherent in the valuation of The Directors are responsible for subject to any material departures The Directors confirm that to the best Opinions and conclusions arising and generation uncertainty relating preparing the annual report and the disclosed and explained in the of their knowledge: from our audit to wind speeds coupled with the goodwill and intangible assets.
Group and Company financial Company financial statements: and 1 Our opinion on the financial inherent uncertainty involved in statements in accordance with the financial statements, prepared statements is unmodified forecasting and discounting future The presentation of underlying profit Refer to page 95 Audit Committee applicable law and regulations.
prepare the financial statements on in accordance with the applicable We have audited the financial cash flows, which are the basis of the going concern basis unless it is set of accounting standards, give statements of Infinis Energy plc for the assessment of recoverability.
report, and pages 144-147 financial disclosures.
Company law requires the Directors inappropriate to presume that the a true and fair view of the assets, the year ended 31 March 2014 set out to prepare Group and Company Group and Company will continue liabilities, financial position and on pages 132173.
In our opinion: Our response In this area our The risk Within its income financial statements for each financial in business.
profit or loss of the Company and audit procedures included, among year.
Under that law they are required the undertakings included in the the financial statements give a true others, testing of the Groups statement, the Group presents an alternative income statement to prepare the Group financial The Directors are responsible for consolidation taken as a whole: and and fair view of the state of the budgeting procedures upon which statements in accordance with keeping adequate accounting records Groups and of the Companys the forecasts are based and of the caption on an underlying non-GAAP basis.
The basis of IFRSs as adopted by the EU and that are sufficient to show and the Strategy report and Directors affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of principles and integrity of the applicable law and have elected to explain the Companys transactions report includes a fair review of the the Groups loss for the year Groups discounted cash flow adjusting between the EU-IFRS and underlying income statements is prepare the Company financial and disclose with reasonable development and performance of then ended: model.
Certain of the key inputs, statements in accordance with accuracy at any time the financial the business and the position of specifically electricity prices and set out in note 6 to the financial statements on pages 144145.
position of the Company and enable the issuer and the undertakings the Group financial statements the levels of generation, are volatile, them to ensure that its financial included in the consolidation taken have been properly prepared in partially outside the control of the A significant recurring adjustment relates to the amortisation of Under company law the Directors statements comply with the as a whole, together with a accordance with International Directors, require judgment in their must not approve the financial Companies Act 2006.
They have description of the principal risks Financial Reporting Standards as selection, and can have a intangible assets arising on and uncertainties that they face.
business combinations and the statements unless they are satisfied general responsibility for taking such adopted by the European Union: significant effect on forecast cash that they give a true and fair view of steps as are reasonably open to them flows.
For these key inputs we associated tax thereon.
In addition, adjustments are made to exclude the state of affairs of the Group and to safeguard the assets of the Group the Company financial statements compared the reasonableness of Company and of their profit or loss and to prevent and detect fraud and have been properly prepared in the Directors pricing assumptions one-off refinancing expenses and a number of other items.
In preparing each of other irregularities.
accordance with UK Accounting to regulatory reports and we the Group and Company financial Standards: and compared expected generation Our response We assessed the statements, the Directors are Under applicable law and regulations, data to a third party external required to: the Directors are also responsible for the financial statements have been expert engaged by the Group.
appropriateness of the basis for the adjustments between the GAAP preparing a strategic report, prepared in accordance with the select suitable accounting policies Directors report, Directors requirements of the Companies We also compared the Groups income statement and the underlying income statement and then apply them consistently: remuneration report and Corporate Act 2006 and, as regards the assumptions to externally derived governance statement that complies Group financial statements, Article data as well as our own and recalculated the adjustments.
We assessed the potential risk of make judgments and estimates with that law and those regulations.
assessments in relation to key that are reasonable and prudent: inputs such as projected economic management bias.
We also considered i the extent to which The Directors are responsible for the 2 Our assessment of risks of growth, cost inflation and discount for the Group financial statements, maintenance and integrity of the material misstatement rates, as well as performing the prominence given to the underlying financial information state whether they have been corporate and financial information In arriving at our audit opinion sensitivity analysis on the prepared in accordance with IFRSs included on the Companys website.
above on the financial statements the assumptions.
We used our own and related commentary in the annual report compared to that as adopted by the EU: Legislation in the UK governing the risks of material misstatement that valuation specialists to assist us in preparation and dissemination of had the greatest effect on our audit evaluating the assumptions and given to the EU-IFRS financial information and related for the Company financial financial statements may differ from were as follows: methodologies used by the Group, statements, state whether legislation in other jurisdictions.
in particular those relating to the commentary could be misleading, ii whether the EU-IFRS and applicable UK Accounting Goodwill and intangible assets discount rate applied.
For internally Standards have been followed, 482.8 million derived inputs we verified underlying financial information generation and sales data to are reconciled with sufficient Refer to pages 94-95 Audit Committee report, pages 138-139 underlying forecasts and historical prominence given to that data and we substantiated the reconciliation, iii whether the basis accounting estimates, judgements and policies and pages 152-153 capital expenditure projections to of the underlying financial existing planned works and information is clearly and accurately financial disclosures.
We also assessed described and consistently applied whether the Groups disclosures and iv whether the underlying The risk There is a risk of impairment of the Groups about the sensitivity of the financial information is not outcome of the impairment otherwise misleading in the form significant goodwill and intangible balances due to declining generation assessment to changes in key and context in which it appears in assumptions reflected the risks the annual report.
inherent to the landfill gas industry 05 130 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 131 05 Independent auditors report to the members of Infinis Energy plc only report and financial statements certain elements of the report to 3 Our application of materiality and the Group audit team.
These an overview of the scope of our audit materiality levels were set individually taken as a whole is fair, balanced shareholders by the Board on and understandable and provides Directors remuneration.
The materiality for the Group for each component and ranged financial statements as a whole was from 450,000 to 3,500,000. the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups We have nothing to report in respect set at 5.0 million.
This has been determined with reference to a 4 Our opinion on other matters performance, business model and of the above responsibilities.
strategy: or benchmark of gross assets of which prescribed by the Companies Act it represents 0.5% which we 2006 is unmodified Scope of report and responsibilities the Audit Committee report does As explained more fully in the consider to be one of the principal In our opinion: considerations for members of the not appropriately address matters Directors Responsibilities Statement communicated by us to the set out on page 128, the Directors are Company in assessing the financial the part of the Directors performance of the Group.
Remuneration report to be audited Audit Committee.
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being has been properly prepared in We agreed with the Audit Committee accordance with the Companies Under the Companies Act 2006 we satisfied that they give a true and fair are required to report to you if, in view.
A description of the scope of to report to it all corrected Act 2006: misstatements above materiality of our opinion: an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting the Group financial statements and the information given in the all uncorrected misstatements we strategic report and Directors adequate accounting records have Councils website at www.
uk not been kept by the Company, or auditscopeukprivate.
This report is identified through our audit with a report for the financial year for value in excess of 0.3 million, in which the financial statements are returns adequate for our audit have made solely to the Companys not been received from branches members as a body and is subject addition to other audit misstatements prepared is consistent with the below that threshold that we financial statements: and not visited by us: or to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the information given in the the Company financial statements responsibilities, published on our and the part of the Directors website at www.
com uk corporate governance report The audit of the Group financial set out on pages 80-91 with Remuneration Report to be audited auditscopeukco2013a, which are are not in agreement with the incorporated into this report as if statements was performed by the respect to internal control and Group audit team in relation to a risk management systems in accounting records and returns: or set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the number of key components.
These relation to financial reporting audits covered 81% of total Group processes and about share capital certain disclosures of Directors purpose of this report, the work we remuneration specified by law have undertaken and the basis of revenue: 96% of Group profit before structures is consistent with the taxation: and 55% of total Group financial statements.
are not made: or our opinions.
The Group audit team performed audits over ten 5 We have nothing to report in we have not received all the Ian Griffiths information and explanations Senior Statutory Auditor components, including Infinis Energy respect of the matters on which we plc as a standalone entity, along with are required to report by exception we require for our audit: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the audit of the Group, including Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are consolidation type adjustments.
In required to report to you if, based on a Corporate Governance Statement has not been Chartered Accountants addition, specified audit procedures the knowledge we acquired during were performed by the Group audit our audit, we have identified other prepared by the Company.
15 Canada Square London E14 5GL team at seven components.
Reviews information in the annual report that for Group reporting purposes were contains a material inconsistency Under the Listing Rules we are with either that knowledge or the required to review: 18 June 2014 performed by the Group audit team at all other components.
The financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is the Directors statement, set combined effect of this approach was entirely related to components otherwise misleading.
out on page 123, in relation to going concern: located in the UK and covered 100% of Group revenue, 100% of Group In particular, we are required to report to you if: the part of the corporate profit before tax and 100% of Group assets.
governance report on pages 80-91 we have identified material relating to the Companys The audits undertaken for Group inconsistencies between the compliance with the ten provisions knowledge we acquired during our of the UK Corporate Governance reporting purposes at key components of the Group were all audit and the Directors statement Code specified for our review: and that they consider that the annual performed to materiality levels set by
