INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INFORMA PLC The procedures described in our response to each risk below In our opinion: are not exhaustive and we have focused on those procedures that we consider address areas of judgement or subjectivity.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Aspart of our audit of the Group, in addition to substantive of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at tests, we also test the design and implementation of internal 31December 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year controls over financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
thenended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared THE ASSESSMENT OF THE CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS in accordance with International Financial Reporting Risk Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Group has 1.7bn of goodwill and a further 0.8bnof other the Parent Company financial statements have been properly intangible assets on the balance sheet as at31December prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 2014.
Management is required to perform an annual Accepted Accounting Practice: and impairment test, which is judgmental and based on a number the financial statements have been prepared in accordance of assumptions including those in respect of future profitability, with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, cash generation and discount rates.
These are described in asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Notes 3, 17 and 18 to the Consolidated FinancialStatements.
During the period an impairment of goodwill and intangible The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income assets of 202.5m has been recognised see Note 2 to Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive theConsolidated Financial Statements.
Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements ofFinancial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, How the scope of our audit responded to the risk the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the We audited the assumptions used in managements related notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and impairment test for goodwill and other intangible assets.
The financial Ouraudit testing procedures included: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation ofthe Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs considering the short and medium-term cash flow projections 20152019 against recent performance, as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting historical forecasting accuracy and comparing to relevant framework that has been applied in the preparation of the external market data: Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom comparing the long-term growth rate forecasts from 2020 onwards against long-term economic growth rates for Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
relevant territories: GOING CONCERN involving our internal valuation specialists to assess the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the modelused in the impairment test and the appropriateness Directors statement on page 76 that the Group is a of the key components of the discount rate calculation: goingconcern.
Weconfirm that: recalculating the impairment loss recorded and the sensitivities applied by management and considering we have concluded that the Directors use of the going theirreasonableness: and concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the performing further sensitivity analysis on the financialstatements is appropriate: and impairmentmodel.
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue ACCOUNTING FOR BUSINESS COMBINATIONS asagoing concern.
Risk The Group has completed eight business combinations However, because not all future events or conditions can be intheperiod with a total net cash outflow of 352.5m.
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Theaccounting for each of these involves judgement and ability to continue as a going concern.
isbased on assumptions about the fair value of assets and OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS liabilities acquired, and the consideration paid.
Information OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT inrespect of the acquisitions made is in Note 19.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the effortsof the engagement team.
com 108 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS How the scope of our audit responded to the risk REVENUE RECOGNITION We analysed the sale and purchase agreements for each Risk The risk of material misstatement in revenue recognition varies ofthebusiness combinations and challenged the acquisition across the different activities and revenue streams of the Group.
accounting applied by management for each.
This included: The Groups revenue recognition accounting policies are testing the validity and completeness of consideration disclosed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
totheunderlying agreements and consideration paid: In respect of Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & evaluating managements assumptions and methodology supporting the fair values of intangibles and net assets Networking we identified the risk of revenue from one or more acquired for each acquisition in the year: and events being recognised in the wrong period, particularly for events held close to year end.
assessing the terms of each acquisition to ensure components of compensation and remuneration had In respect of both Academic Publishing and Business beencorrectly identified and that acquisition costs had Intelligence we identified the risk that the deferral and release beenexpensed.
ofsubscription revenues did not appropriately match the In respect of the Virgo Group and Provisuale Participaes underlying terms of the contract.
Ltdaacquisitions we involved our internal valuation specialists We also identified the cut-off risk within Academic Publishing to assess the appropriateness of the nature and valuation of in relation to the significant volume of transactions leading up theintangible assets identified.
This assessment included tothe year end.
testing the assumptions used including discount rates, useful economic lives, growth rates and the expected rate of return How the scope of our audit responded to the risk from customer relationships.
Based on the design and implementation of controls work weperformed, and the process walkthroughs we completed, THE RECOVERABILITY OF LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES we designed substantive procedures to respond to each of Risk thespecific risks of material misstatement we identified.
We The Group holds a number of long-term receivable balances, performed operating effectiveness testing of controls and the most significant being with China Medical Data Services, subsequently took controls reliance in respect of auditing Robbins Gioia and the acquirers of the Corporate Training theUK component.
The substantive audit procedures business disposed of in 2013.
At 31 December 2014 the weperformed across the Group included: carrying value ofthese receivables was 30.1m see Note 26 tothe Consolidated Financial Statements.
The recoverability obtaining evidence of invoices, payments, exhibitor contracts ofthese balances is identified as a significant risk as it is and evidence of event occurrence to determine whether dependent onthe performance of the related businesses.
deferred revenue was released at the appropriate time: performing a trend analysis of revenue over the course of the During the period an impairment charge of 14.5m year, plotting revenue against the calendar of events for the wasrecognised in relation to the China Medical Data Services entities tested and verifying that these events had occurred and ExpoVinis receivables see Note 2 to the Consolidated to third party sources: FinancialStatements.
for a sample of transactions close to the year end, examining How the scope of our audit responded to the risk supporting documentation to determine that revenue The audit procedures we performed in assessing the carrying recognition criteria had been met and the revenue had been appropriately recognised or deferred in the period: and value and recoverability of long-term receivables included: for a sample of subscription transactions, obtaining and reviewing the underlying agreements and vouching reviewing the contracts to validate the revenue recognised movements in the receivables to relevant supporting and to assess that the revenue recognised was properly documentation: allocated across the term of the contract.
testing managements calculation of the fair value of long-term receivables including assumptions such as Our report for the year ended 31 December 2013 included one other risk which is not included in our report this year which discount rates applied: and related to the adequacy of provisions for uncertain tax matters.
assessing future recoverability through: gaining an understanding of the developments in these In the previous period the Group negotiated and resolved businesses during the period: anumber of uncertain tax positions with the tax authorities reviewing and assessing current and likely future business intheterritories to which these uncertain positions related.
Wetherefore do not consider this to be a risk of material performance from financial information submitted from therelevant third parties: and misstatement that is required to be included in our audit considering payments received in the period.
reportfor the period ended 31 December 2014. www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC CONTINUED The description of risks above should be read in conjunction ofmateriality applicable to each individual entity which were with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee lower than Group materiality and ranged from 4m to 6m.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts aggregated financial information of the remaining components ordisclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
modified with respect to any of the risks described above, The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of andwe do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the locations We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every financial statements that makes it probable that the economic two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be In the year ended 31 December 2014 the Senior Statutory changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning Auditor or his designate visited five out of the six full scope audit thescope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of locations.
In years when we do not visit a significant component ourwork.
we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of We determined materiality for the Group to be 10m thefindings from their work.
2013:9.7m, which is not greater than 5% 2013: 5% of normalised pre-tax profit from continuing operations.
Pre-tax The scope of our work and the locations identified within profit from continuing operations has been normalised by theGroup audit scope are similar to 2013 as these locations removing the impact of impairment charges and specific continue to represent the principal business units within restructuring and reorganisation costs.
This is consistent theGroups four reportable segments.
withthe methodology used in 2013 with the exception that OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED normalised profit from continuing operations in 2013 was BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 adjusted for all restructuring and reorganisation costs and In our opinion: acquisition related costs.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report auditedhas been properly prepared in accordance tothe Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000 withtheCompanies Act 2006: and 2013: 190,000, as well as differences below that threshold the information given in the Strategic Report and the that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters financialstatements are prepared is consistent with that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of thefinancial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT BY EXCEPTION Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group you if, in our opinion: level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit we have not received all the information and explanations scope primarily on the audit work at seven 2013: seven werequire for our audit: or locations.
Six 2013: six of these were subject to a full audit, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the whilst the remaining one 2013: one was subject to specified Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or onour assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the Parent Company financial statements are not in the materiality of the Groups operations at that location.
These agreement with the accounting records and returns.
seven locations represent the principal business units within theGroups four reportable segments and account for 76% We have nothing to report in respect ofthesematters.
2013: 73% of the Groups revenue and 77% 2013: 76% of theGroups adjusted operating profit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Ouraudit work at the seven locations was executed at levels www.
com 110 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies ifin our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration might state to the Companys members those matters we are Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not these matters.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Corporate Governance Statement audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the partof the Corporate Governance Statement relating to SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS theCompanys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give arisingfrom our review.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent weare required to report to you if, in our opinion, information Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied inthe Annual Report is: and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant materially inconsistent with the information in the audited accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all financial statements: or the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial inthe course of performing our audit: or statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, otherwise misleading.
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing In particular, we are required to consider whether we have theaudit.
If we become aware of any apparent material identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider for our report.
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and ANTHONY MORRIS FCA SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor whichwe consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm London, UK that wehave not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
12 February 2015 RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express anopinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 111
