82 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BONUS SHARE AWARDS Share awards Reinvested Share awards held at 1 January Awarded dividends Vested held at 2014 or date of during during during 31 December Award Vesting 1 2 appointment the year the year the year 2014 Price date Andrew Sukawaty 3 Share award made in March 2011 34,941 34,941 6.07 Fully vested in 2014 March 2014 and 4 Share award made in March 2012 235,382 4,777 117,691 122,468 4.549 March 2015 March 2014, March 2015 5 Share award made in March 2013 250,973 6,791 83,657 174,107 6.50 and March 2016 March 2015, March 2016 6 Share award made in March 2014 171,369 6,956 178,325 6.89 and March 2017 Rupert Pearce 3 Share award made in March 2011 16,111 16,111 6.07 Fully vested in 2014 March 2014 and 4 Share award made in March 2012 41,486 841 20,743 21,584 4.549 March 2015 May 2014, March 2015 5 Share award made in March 2013 98,640 2,668 32,880 68,428 6.
A monetary award under the 2014 BSA was granted to him on 10 June 2014.
Messrs Sukawaty and Pearce received monetary awards in March 2014.
The 2014 BSA share awards will be converted in full as the performance conditions have been met.
Please see pages 75 and 76 for the monetary value to be converted to shares.
1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
2 On 12 March 2014, Mr Sukawaty and Mr Pearce sold sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance and retained the balance at a price of 6.86 per share, representing a monetary value of vested shares of 857,184 and 252,969 respectively.
3 The shares vest in three equal instalments and the last instalment vested in 2014.
4 The shares vest in three equal instalments, the second instalment vested in 2014 and the remaining instalment will vest in March 2015.
5 The shares vest in three equal instalments with the final instalment in March 2016.
6 The shares vest in three equal instalments with the final instalment in March 2017.
Mr Sukawaty, as Non-Executive Chairman, remains entitled to receive the shares when they vest as they were awarded and earned while he was an Executive Director.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Share awards Reinvested Share awards held at Awarded dividends Vested Lapsed held at 1 January during during during during 31 December Award Vesting 1 2014 the year the year the year the year 2014 Price date Andrew Sukawaty 2 Award made in 2011 100,612 100,612 6.11 Lapsed 3 Award made in 2012 304,663 304,663 4.54 March 2015 Award made in 2013 201,262 201,262 6.87 March 2016 Award made in 2014 176,207 176,207 6.98 March 2017 Rupert Pearce 2 Award made in 2011 42,986 42,986 6.11 Lapsed 3 Award made in 2012 135,462 135,462 4.54 May 2015 Award made in 2013 98,435 98,435 6.87 March 2016 Award made in 2014 96,954 96,954 6.98 March 2017 Tony Bates Award made in 2014 58,919 58,919 7.64 June 2017 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
2 No amount of the 2011 PSP vested in 2014 as performance conditions were not met.
Please see page 76 for further details.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March and signed on its behalf by: STEPHEN DAVIDSON CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 5 March 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS the consolidation taken as a whole: Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company performance of the business and the position of the Company and the law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model properly select and apply accounting policies: and strategy.
This statement has been given in accordance with IFRS present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that accounting standards.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic By order of the Board requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and RUPERT PEARCE make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
DIRECTOR 5 March 2015 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
84 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INMARSAT PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group and Parent Company Balance Sheet, Group and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 40.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 83 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identied any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Change in segmental reporting We have tested the operating effectiveness of controls around the segmental classication of revenues In light of the internal business restructuring discussed in note 5 to the financial by tracing a sample of newly activated SIM cards from activation, through the segmentation process, into statements, and the change of internal and external reporting to view the business on the financial systems.
a vertical basis, there is a risk that the operating segments of the business are not appropriately identied and disclosed in accordance with IFRS 8.
We have reviewed and challenged assumptions applied in allocating revenues and costs between the new operating segments, including in particular the conclusion that it is not feasible to allocate the satellite Furthermore, there is a risk that revenues and expenses may not be appropriately and related assets to any of the other segments.
allocated to the correct operating segments.
We met with each of the individual business unit heads to corroborate their understanding of the historical Given the substantial changes to the way the business is managed and the way results and position of their respective reporting segments.
management information is reported internally and hence the way financial results are presented within the Annual Report, there is a risk that inappropriate allocation We have compared the internal management information as presented to the Chief Operating Decision could lead to material disclosure deficiencies.
Maker CODM to the segmental disclosures made in note 5 to the financial statements to determine whether the requirements of IFRS 8 have been complied with.
The assessment of the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets We have carried out procedures to assess the design and implementation of the controls over the In accordance with IAS 36, management is required to carry out an annual impairment impairment of goodwill process.
review in respect of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Included in intangibles is $422.1m of goodwill.
We have challenged the assumptions used by management in undertaking their impairment review as described in notes 2 and 4 to the financial statements.
Impairment reviews are complex, contain highly judgemental assumptions, and are predicated on managements assessment of future profitability.
We considered whether managements impairment review methodology is compliant with IAS 36.
Our audit work focused on the assumptions used in the impairment model, including specically: There is a risk that the assumptions used in the impairment reviews are inappropriate, and hence that the wrong conclusion may be drawn in respect of whether an Considering managements assessment and determination of the Groups CGUs: impairment is required.
Reviewing managements methodology for reallocation of goodwill and the calculations used to support the revised allocation, along with recalculating the allocation.
The changes to the Groups reporting structure has led management to reassess the Agreeing the underlying cash ow projections to Board approved forecasts and corroborating the cash generating units CGUs, and assets including goodwill have been reallocated trends by evaluating recent performance, and comparing to external market expectations to accordingly as a result.
Judgement is required in order to ensure that these assets understand the drivers of the forecasts: have been allocated to the correct CGU, and that any such allocation has been Comparison of growth rates against those achieved historically and external market data performed on a reasonable and consistent basis.
where available: Benchmarking of growth and discount rates to comparator companies: and Determining whether the required disclosures have been provided: Accounting for the acquisition of Globe Wireless LLC We gained an understanding of the transaction and its rationale through discussions with The acquisition of the assets of Globe Wireless LLC was completed for a management and reading of the Asset Purchase Agreement.
We have engaged our internal valuation specialists to review the methodology and assumptions employed in the valuation of acquired intangible assets and liabilities, including determining whether The acquisition accounting for this transaction involves a number of judgements.
the assumptions used for the purpose of valuing acquired intangible assets were consistent with what There is a risk that the assumptions used in the purchase price allocation exercise a market participant would use.
are inappropriate, and hence the valuation of acquired assets and liabilities could We obtained the underlying cash ow forecasts and reviewed and challenged the assumptions used to be incorrect.
assess the reasonableness of the forecasts.
We have reviewed the calculations and disclosures made in note 29 to the financial statements to determine whether these are compliant with IFRS 3.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Capitalisation of development costs We have tested the operating effectiveness of controls in respect of the processes and procedures which The Group capitalises significant internal labour costs, external costs and qualifying govern the capitalisation of development costs.
Furthermore, we have carried out substantive testing in borrowing costs in respect of major ongoing capital projects including the Global relation to each element of capitalised costs including inspecting supporting evidence for a sample of the Xpress programme, Europasat and a number of IT systems.
capitalised costs, understanding the nature of the costs capitalised and considering whether they are consistent with the originally approved budget.
There is a risk that costs which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 16, IAS 38 and IAS 23 are inappropriately recorded on the In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations, veried the inputs to the balance sheet rather than expensed as incurred.
calculation, including testing a sample of cash payments, tested the mechanical accuracy of the model, and reviewed the model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer being capitalised.
We have met with the project leaders for the most nancially significant capital projects, which account for 87% of current year capital expenditure to corroborate the project status, the feasibility of completion and performance against budgets, including investigating any derivations from budget.
Accounting for the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement We have discussed the current commercial situation with respect to LightSquared with management and The Group continues to hold a material balance of deferred revenue in respect challenged the basis of their assumptions to ensure that the previously adopted accounting treatment of the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement.
Risks exist in relation to revenue and continues to be appropriate, namely the continued deferral of $208.8m income in respect of cost recognition for the agreement, as the accounting is reliant on management consideration previously received from LightSquared until there is certainty around whether the judgement, and there is a high degree of uncertainty surrounding the continued Cooperation Agreement will be restarted and the related services will be provided.
In respect of the $38.8m of previously deferred Phase 1.5 income that was recognised in the Income Statement in Q1, we have considered managements treatment of this against their previously established accounting policy.
In respect of the $17.5m payment due from LightSquared on 31 December 2014 as discussed in note 20 to the financial statements, we have assessed managements conclusion that this should not be recognised until the cash is received against the guidance outlined in IAS 18.
We have conducted substantive testing of the associated revenue and costs recognised in respect of this arrangement.
Working capital provisions We have considered the appropriateness of the policy for the provision of doubtful receivables and The Group has implemented new systematic provisioning policies in respect of inventory obsolescence by: inventory and trade receivables, as discussed in note 4 to the financial statements.
Critically assessing the new policy based on historic bad debt and inventory write-offs within the Group: There is a risk that if the provisioning approach does not reect the risk prole within Understanding the design and implementation of controls in respect of conducting and reviewing the underlying inventory and receivable populations, or if the provisioning policies the output of the general provision calculations: are not correctly and consistently applied, these working capital balances could be Assessing the financial position of those counterparties for which a specic receivable provision materially misstated.
has been recognised in order to conclude on the reasonableness of these provisions: Performing substantive testing to determine the validity of the underlying data within the general provision calculation: Mechanically recalculating the provisions based on the terms of the policy: and Meeting with Business Unit presidents to corroborate the Groups expectation of sales of certain inventory lines and financial health of Distribution Partners.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year in respect of uncertain tax positions.
We have not highlighted this significant audit risk given that there has been no significant change to these positions other than the resolution of one of these cases and we have not directed significant time and resource in this area in comparison to the previous year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 63 and 64.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $11.2m 2013: $16.0m.
This was calculated before 31 December 2014 and was based on 5% of forecast adjusted profit before tax 2013: 5%, which resulted in approximately 5% of actual adjusted profit before tax 2013: 4%, and less than 1% 2013: less than 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit has been adjusted to remove the impact of volatility arising from the LightSquared Cooperation agreement discussed in note 4 to the financial statements and the one-off impact of the re-basing of the convertible bond discussed in note 19 to the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $225,000 2013: $320,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
