GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Independent Auditors UK Report Independent Auditor Report to the members Our application of materiality of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC For the purposes of determining whether the accounts are free from material error, we define materiality as the magnitude of Opinion on financial statements an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, In our opinion: in light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the financial statements.
In assessing whether errors are material, state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as either individually or in aggregate, we consider qualitative as well at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year as quantitative factors.
then ended: Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared for the financial statements as a whole to be $28m 2013 $27m.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: How we determined materiality: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Profit before tax $600m Starting Accepted Accounting Practice: and basis the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Adjust for pre-tax exceptional income of $29m regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the Adjustment to determine adjusted profit before tax IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the Financial Statements of InterContinental Take 5% of the adjusted profit before tax Materiality Hotels Group PLC the Group and IHG for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the: Group Company Rationale for basis Parent company balance We believe that profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax exceptional Group income statement sheet items provides us with a consistent year on year basis for Group statement of determining materiality and is the most relevant performance related notes 1 to 10 comprehensive income measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Detailed audit Group statement of changes in equity procedures are performed on material exceptional items.
Group statement of financial position On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment Group statement of cash flows of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was related notes 1 to 34 that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the should be 75% 2013 75% of planning materiality, namely $21m preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law 2013 $20m.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.4m 2013 $1.4m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, Overview of our audit approach warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overall Group materiality of $28m which represents Materiality Scope of the audit of the financial statements 5% of profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts exceptional items.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We performed an audit of the complete financial Audit scope information of 21 components and audit procedures reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free on specific balances for a further 11 components.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
The reporting components where we performed full This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies or specific audit procedures accounted for 77% of are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys revenue and 86% of profit before tax adjusted for circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately pre-tax exceptional items.
disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Accounting for the hotel assessments collected Areas made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial as part of the revenue cycle and the allocation of of focus expenditures related to the marketing, advertising statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial and loyalty point programmes the System Fund.
information in the Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 to identify The valuation of the future redemption of IHG material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements Rewards Club points liability.
and to identify any information that is apparently materially Recognition of deferred tax assets relating to losses.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Capitalisation of software assets and carrying value acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become of legacy systems.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies Disposal of the 80% interest in the InterContinental we consider the implications for our report.
95 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Independent Auditors UK Report continued The scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to component.
In the current year the range of performance the Group Financial Statements, we selected 32 components which materiality allocated to components was $1m to $21m.
The upper represent the principal business units within the Group.
21 of these end of the range was allocated to those components which components were subject to a full audit and 11 were subject to a reflected 100% of a single line item within the Group statement specific scope audit where the extent of audit work was based on of financial position or the related notes.
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and the The Group audit team directs the component teams at all stages materiality of the components business operations relative to the of the audit.
The audit engagement partner, or her designate, Group.
The audit scope of these components may not have included visited with the key locations in the Americas and IHGs global testing of all significant accounts of the location but will have accounting centre in India during planning, interim and at year end.
contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the In addition, the audit engagement partner visited Greater China, Group.
The four Group audit significant risks in relation to System including the Groups owned hotel in Hong Kong.
Fund, IHG Rewards Club points liability, capitalisation and carrying value of capitalised software assets, and deferred tax asset These visits involved discussing the audit strategy and any issues recognition were subject to full scope audit procedures.
arising from our work, reviewing key workpapers, as well as meeting local management.
For the remaining components not subject to full or specific scope audits, we performed other procedures to test or assess This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the these components in relation to the Group Financial Statements.
The components subject to full audit or specific audit procedures Our assessment of risk of material misstatement account for 77% of Group revenue and 86% of the Groups profit We identified the following risks of material misstatement which before tax before pre-tax exceptional items.
had the greatest effect on the audit strategy: the allocation of Audit work at the individual components is undertaken based on a resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance team, including the more senior members of the team.
This is not materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of a complete list of all the risks identified in our audit.
the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus References We have tested internal financial controls over the calculation of hotel Refer to page 49 Accounting for the hotel assessments, charges to the Fund, allocation of expenses in addition to those Strategic Report, assessments collected as part over the Groups procurement process, related IT systems, and exclusion from page 67 Audit of the revenue cycle and the IHGs ledgers.
Committee Report, allocation of expenditures page 112 Critical related to the marketing, For a sample of hotel assessments and expenses recorded in the Fund, we accounting policies advertising and loyalty point agreed that they are supported by appropriate documentation and, based on and the use of programmes the System Fund our inspection of that supporting documentation, we have made an independent estimates and assessment of whether the hotel assessments and contributions and expenses judgements, and As outlined in the Strategic relate to the Fund.
Report on page 49, the System Fund the Fund is a key part Given the accounting treatment adopted for the Fund is a key judgement: we have of the Groups business model.
considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in the Group Financial Statements.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, and as detailed in Note 32, the Fund has assessment fees and contributions of $1,271m and expenses of $1,485m.
These amounts are not included in IHGs income statement.
We focus on this area because there is a risk that the hotel assessments could be included in IHGs reported revenue, which would overstate IHGs revenues: or that Group costs are incorrectly charged to the Fund, improperly reducing IHGs expenses and leading to a misstatement of IHGs income statement.
96 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus References We tested the effectiveness of internal financial controls, including IT controls, Refer to page 67 Audit The valuation of the future over the liability valuation process, including controls over validation of the Committee Report, redemption of IHG Rewards Club completeness and accuracy of data provided to IHGs external actuarial adviser page 113 Critical points liability and managements internal review process of the inputs and the overall estimate accounting policies of the rewards point liability.
and the use of We focused on this area due to estimates and the size of the liability, $725m For the three key inputs into the liability valuation we undertook the following judgements, and at 31 December 2014, and its audit procedures: page 152 notes.
sensitivity, in particular, to the breakage estimate as defined 1 Outstanding loyalty points at 31 December 2014 on page 113.
We tested controls over the complete and accurate recording of points data and tested the roll forward of the points balance to 31 December 2014, and traced to underlying records.
2 The outstanding points redemption ratio breakage We engaged our own actuarial specialists to assist us in challenging and evaluating the appropriateness of the methodology, data and assumptions applied by management in determining key redemption ratio breakage assumption for members outstanding loyalty points at the balance sheet date.
In addition to testing the integrity and accuracy of the companys model, we developed our own model to form an independent view on an acceptable range for the redemption ratio and assess the reasonableness of key assumptions applied by management in valuing the liability.
3 Redeemed point cost RPC We undertook substantive and analytical procedures to validate the RPC to be applied to the liability calculation.
We challenged and applied professional scepticism to managements rationale Refer to page 67 Audit Recognition of deferred tax for the re-assessment of forecast models and considered the appropriateness Committee Report, assets relating to losses of managements assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of page 113 Critical generating suitable future profits to support the recognition of deferred accounting policies We focused on this area due to: tax assets.
and the use of the judgement and estimates estimates and required to determine the We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting and the integrity of the judgements, and level of future taxable profits forecast models and as a result of these procedures, we formed our own view pages 122 to 124 that support recognition: and on the Groups capacity to obtain effective relief for tax losses and other assets notes.
the size of the recognised over the forecast period.
and unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to losses In particular, we considered the interaction between the recognition of tax losses at the balance sheet date, in the UK and overseas jurisdictions to ensure consistency, since these are both $154m and $256m, impacted by the application of the UK controlled foreign company legislation.
We tested the internal controls over the approval, acquisition and development Refer to page 22 New in 2014 of new software and the controls surrounding the capitalisation and Strategic Report, Capitalisation of software assets determination of the useful lives of newly capitalised software assets page 67 Audit and carrying value of legacy and remaining useful lives for legacy software.
Committee Report, systems page 113 Critical We obtained a listing of new projects initiated in the year, and agreed a sample accounting policies Our audit approach and to underlying documentation to test they had been reviewed and approved in line and the use of assessment of key areas of audit with the Groups delegation of authority.
estimates and focus changes in response to judgements, and circumstances affecting the We assessed that the costs capitalised were in compliance with the requirements page 129 notes.
Given the Groups of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
continued development of the technology environment and the We undertook tests of details by vouching specific expenditures to supporting size of the capitalised software documentation to validate a sample of software additions in the year.
balance $264m as at 31 December 2014, we have We performed a detailed assessment of capitalised software to evaluate the focused on this area in 2014. remaining useful lives remain appropriate given the evolution of the technology environment.
Software projects can have complex development cycles, often over many phases, spanning two to three years, or more.
New technology also brings a risk of impairment of legacy systems.
97 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Independent Auditors UK Report continued In addition to the risks identified as part of our audit planning, the Group undertook the following material non-routine transaction in the year which affected the allocation of resources and the direction of our audit efforts and for which our audit response was as follows: Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus References We evaluated all key contracts in relation to the sale, including the sale and Refer to page 67 Disposal of the 80% interest in purchase agreement and the related hotel management agreements, to ensure Audit Committee the InterContinental New York that fide-recognition of the hotel was appropriate.
Report, and pages Barclay hotel 121 and 127 notes.
As part of our assessment, we concluded IHG no longer controls the We focused on this area due to operations of the hotel: however, given the remaining equity interest and IHGs the complexity of the transaction.
representation on the Board of Directors of the joint venture entity, IHG has In particular, we focused on: significant influence over the entity, and equity accounts for its investment.
the Groups remaining equity interest in the related entity: We agreed the calculation of the accounting gain recognised on disposal, the calculation of the fair including the fair value attributed to the hotel management agreement.
We value attributed to the hotel challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions applied to the discounted management agreement: and cash flow models used in determining the valuation of the management contract.
IHGs contractual Given the size and nature of the disposal gain, we considered the appropriateness commitments to the of its classification as an exceptional item in line with the Groups accounting joint venture.
policy for such items as set out on page 112.
Changes from the prior year apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially In the prior year we also considered the purchase of a qualifying inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired insurance policy by the UK defined benefit pension scheme to in the course of performing our audit: or be a key area of audit focus.
This is no longer applicable in the is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider Responsibilities set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in should have been disclosed.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to if, in our opinion: comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, received from branches not visited by us: or in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not Companys members those matters we are required to state to in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as by law are not made: or a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we we have not received all the information and explanations have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: In our opinion: the Directors statement, set out on page 75, in relation to going the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited concern: and has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating Act 2006: and to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Matters on which we are required to report by exception London We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 16 February 2015 Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or 98
