GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Independent Auditors US Report Report of independent registered public accounting the period ended 31 December 2014, and our report dated firm on internal control over financial reporting 16 February 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of InterContinental ERNST & YOUNG LLP Hotels Group PLC.
London, England We have audited InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs internal 16 February 2015 control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2014, based Report of independent registered public on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework accounting firm issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of InterContinental Treadway Commission 2013 Framework the COSO criteria.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, We have audited the accompanying Group statement of financial and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over position of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as of 31 December financial reporting included in the Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 and 2013, and the related Group income statement, Group 2014.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Groups statement of comprehensive income, Group statement of changes internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
inequity and Group statement of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2014.
These Financial We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of Statements are the responsibility of the Groups management.
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Financial Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit Statements based on our audits.
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that Thosestandards require that we plan and perform the audit to a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and necessary in the circumstances.
Webelieve that our audit provides disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes a reasonable basis for our opinion.
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability reasonable basis for our opinion.
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted In our opinion, the Financial Statements referred to above present accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC at 31 December 2014 to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and 2013, and the consolidated results of its operations and and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions 31 December 2014, in conformity with International Financial are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting Standards Board.
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the are being made only in accordance with authorisations of PublicCompany Accounting Oversight Board United States, management and directors of the company: and 3 provide InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs internal control over reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection financialreporting as of 31 December 2014, based on criteria of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
by theCommittee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial Commission 2013 Framework, and our report dated 16 February reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, 2015 expressed anunqualified opinion thereon.
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are ERNST & YOUNG LLP subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because London, England of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 16 February 2015 the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Notes: In our opinion, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC maintained, 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC in all material respects, effective internal control over financial website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the reporting as of 31 December 2014, based on the COSO criteria.
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
PublicCompany Accounting Oversight Board United States, 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and theaccompanying Group statement of financial position of dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as of 31 December 2014 and 2013, and the related Group income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income, Group statement of changes in equity and Group statement of cash flows for each of the three years in 99
