OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INdEPENdENT AUdITORS REPORT 103 Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited: Interserve Plcs financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our assessment of risk Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following matters that are, in our judgement, likely to be most important to users understanding of our audit.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Group financial statements as a whole and not to express an opinion on individual transactions, account balances or disclosures.
104 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INdEPENdENT AUdITORS REPORT Independent auditors report continued Audit risk How we responded to the risk Our audit work included, but was not limited to: Revenue recognition and contract accounting See note 1 on page 116 and pages 70 and 71 of the Audit testing key controls, where applicable, over the recognition Committee Report.
of revenue and the allocation of costs to the contracts, including those over contract execution, invoicing, Revenue is recognised throughout the Group as the fair value of collections, cost approvals and cost allocations: consideration receivable in respect of provision of services and selecting a sample of contracts in progress determined by construction contracts and the rental and sale of equipment.
reference to materiality and other risk factors including lossProvision is made for expected contract losses as soon as they making contracts and contracts with aged work-in-progress are foreseen.
and debtor balances and testing of managements application Determining the amount of revenue to be recognised, costs to of the contractual terms and conditions, recalculating complete and assessment of any other costs arising, the impact revenue recognised under the percentage of completion of any changes in scope of work, together with the level of method based on costs incurred to date where applicable recoverable work-in-progress and receivables requires significant and testing a sample of costs recorded on projects: management judgement and estimates.
challenging managements assertion relating to the expected costs to complete by reference to supporting documentation We therefore identified revenue recognition and contract such as customer certifications, forecast models and accounting as a significant risk.
comparing previous cost estimates against actual results and examining variation and claim agreements: rationalising revenues against contracted amounts and reconciled differences to variations that were invoiced during the period: testing a sample of revenue items for each stream, covering both hire and sale revenue, agreeing items selected for testing through to supporting documentation: reviewing managements assessment of forward loss provisions recorded on longer term contracts, including challenging management on the judgements inherent within their contract forecasts, understanding the basis for claims revenue projections and projected cost savings, review of historical experience and comparing against expected outcomes: and investigating the recovery of trade receivables and workin-progress balances, by reference to post-balance sheet cash collection, certifications and correspondence from customers, review of subsequent and historical credit notes and examining the Groups historical experience of recovery.
Our audit work included, but was not limited to: Acquisition of Initial Facilities See note 12 on page 127 and page 71 of the Audit Committee Report.
agreeing purchase consideration to purchase agreements and bank accounts: On 18 March 2014 the Group acquired the facilities services testing the validity of a sample of fair-value adjustments business of Rentokil Initial Plc for a cash consideration of made to the opening balance sheet and ensuring the 245.7 million.
As a result of this acquisition, the Group recorded quantum of the adjustments was appropriate: intangible assets and goodwill of 87.8 million and 140.3 million respectively.
testing a sample of acquisition and integration-related costs incurred and ensuring that their accounting treatment and Determining the fair value of intangible assets and goodwill disclosure was appropriate: arising from the acquisition required fair-value adjustments recalculating the valuation of recorded intangible assets, to be made to the net assets acquired and the application including the benchmarking of valuation assumptions and of a valuation model to determine the fair value of the estimates to industry data and independent review by our identifiable intangible assets.
The valuation model includes own valuation specialists: and certain assumptions which are judgemental in nature including estimates of future revenue, growth rates, customer retention re-perform the calculation of goodwill recognised on rates and discount rates.
We therefore identified the determination and valuation of the intangible assets and goodwill arising from the acquisition as a significant risk.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INdEPENdENT AUdITORS REPORT 105 Audit risk How we responded to the risk Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: Goodwill impairment review See note 13 on page 128 and page 71 of the Audit Committee obtaining managements assessment of the relevant cash Report.
generating units used in the impairment calculation and comparing those to our understanding of the business units The directors are required to make an annual assessment and operating structure of the Group and recalculating the to determine whether the Groups goodwill, which stands arithmetical accuracy of those calculations: at 401.4 million, including 140.3 million from the Initial testing the assumptions utilised in the impairment models, acquisition at 31 December 2014, is impaired.
including growth rates, discount rates and terminal The process for assessing whether an impairment exists values.
We involved our specialist valuation team to under IAS 36 Impairment of assets is complex.
The process of consider whether the assumptions used were appropriate determining fair value through a value in use calculation, the to the relevant CGUs circumstances and where possible, forecast cash flows related to cash generating units CGUs and benchmarked these assumptions against available industry the determination of the appropriate discount rate and other data: assumptions to be applied can be highly judgemental and can re-performing the sensitivity analysis performed by significantly impact the results of the impairment review.
management in respect of the key assumptions such as discount and growth rates to ensure the assumptions were We therefore identified the impairment review of goodwill to be not aggressive: and a significant risk.
testing the accuracy of managements forecasting through a comparison of budget to actual data and historical variance trends and reviewing the cash flows for exceptional or unusual items or assumptions.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Defined benefit retirement schemes See note 30 on pages 146 to 149 and page 71 of the Audit testing the appropriateness of the valuation methodologies Committee Report.
and their inherent actuarial assumptions by benchmarking key assumptions to available market data such as discount The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans that rates, growth rates and mortality rates.
We also utilised the provide benefits to a significant number of current and former expertise of our actuarial specialists in order to review the employees.
At 31 December 2014 the defined benefit pension assumptions used and the calculation methods employed in scheme net deficit was 4.8 million.
The gross value of pension the calculation of the obligation: scheme assets and liabilities which form the net deficit amount testing the accuracy of underlying membership data utilised to 920.1 million and 924.9 million respectively.
by the Groups actuaries for the purpose of calculating the The measurement of the liabilities in accordance with IAS 19 scheme liabilities by selecting a sample of employees and Revised Employee benefits involves significant judgement and agreeing pertinent data such as date of birth, gender and their valuation is subject to complex actuarial assumptions.
date of membership to underlying records: and Small variations in those actuarial assumptions can lead to a considering the appropriateness of the accounting materially different value of pension liabilities being recognised treatment applied to the buy-in contract as described in within the Group financial statements.
note 30 of the financial statements.
We therefore identified the defined benefit obligation as a significant risk.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of any identified misstatements and in forming our opinion.
For the purpose of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude of a misstatement or an omission from the financial statements or related disclosures that would make it probable that the judgement of a reasonable person relying on the information would have been changed or influenced by the misstatement or omission.
We also determine a level of performance materiality, which we use to determine the extent of testing needed, to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 4.0 million, which is approximately 4 per cent of adjusted profit before tax excluding exceptional items and amortisation of purchased intangibles, as this is a key performance measure used by the Board of Directors to report to investors on the financial performance of the Group.
We set an underlying performance materiality threshold of 70 per cent of Group materiality to direct and focus our audit testing.
We chose this threshold 106 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INdEPENdENT AUdITORS REPORT Independent auditors report continued Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit continued Materiality continued based on our assessment of the control environment obtained during our risk assessment procedures.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes, of the components noted below, were carried out to a materiality level that did not exceed our level of performance materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above 200,000 identified during our audit, which represents 5 per cent of materiality.
We would report misstatements identified below that amount if there were qualitative factors that would warrant the attention of the Audit Committee.
Overview of the scope of our audit Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the Groups business and is risk-based.
An interim visit was conducted before the year end at all significant components of the Group to complete advance substantive audit procedures and to evaluate the Groups internal controls environment including its IT systems.
The components of the Group were evaluated by the group audit team based on a measure of materiality considering each as a percentage of total Group assets, revenues and profit before taxes, to assess the significance of the component and to determine the planned audit response.
For those components that were deemed significant, either a full scope or targeted audit approach was determined based on their relative materiality to the Group and our assessment of the audit risk.
For significant components requiring a full scope approach we evaluated and tested controls over the financial reporting systems identified as part of our risk assessment, reviewed the accounts production process and addressed critical accounting matters.
We sought, wherever possible, to rely on the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in order to reduce substantive testing.
We then undertook substantive testing on significant transactions and material account balances.
In order to address the audit risks described above as identified during our planning procedures, we performed a full-scope audit of the consolidated financial statements of the parent company, Interserve Plc, and of the Groups operations throughout the United Kingdom.
The operations that were subject to full-scope audit procedures make up 90.7 per cent of total revenues.
Statutory audits of subsidiaries are performed to lower materiality where applicable.
While the majority of the operations are located within the United Kingdom, the Group has material operations spanning the globe.
Through an analysis of these operations we determined that targeted audit procedures should be carried out in Oman, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Ireland, Spain, Saudi Arabia, India, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, Hong Kong, the Philippines and the United States of America.
These targeted procedures addressed the significant risks described above.
Those components subjected to targeted audit procedures comprise 8.6 per cent of total revenues.
In total our full scope and targeted procedures covered 99.3 per cent of total revenues and 95.3 per cent of total profit before tax.
The remaining operations of the Group were subjected to analytical procedures over the balance sheet and income statements of the related entities with a focus on applicable risks identified above and the significance to the Groups balances.
Detailed audit instructions were issued to the auditors of the reporting components where a full scope or targeted audit approach had been identified.
The instructions detailed the significant risks that should be addressed through the audit procedures and indicated certain information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team performed site visits in the United Kingdom, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, which included a review of the work performed by the component auditors.
Where targeted components outside of the UK were not physically visited a review of working papers was conducted.
The group audit team communicated with all component auditors throughout the planning, fieldwork and concluding stages of the local audits.
Other reporting required by regulation Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INdEPENdENT AUdITORS REPORT 107 Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the International Standards on Accounting UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: or the Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit What an audit of financial statements involves: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 102, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Who we are reporting to: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Simon Lowe Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London, United Kingdom 26 February 2015
