Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc Registered number 1675285 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: X the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: X the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and: X the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Amec Foster Wheeler plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated income statement Company balance sheet Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Related notes 1 to 10 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 27 As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group has applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Overview X Materiality Overall Group materiality of 14m which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Audit scope X We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 36 components.
X The 42 reporting components where we performed full and specific scope audit procedures accounted for 92% of Group revenue and 90% of the Groups profit before tax.
X We performed limited scope audit procedures on 18 further components.
X We performed additional procedures to address any residual risk at non-specific scope locations.
Areas of focus X Revenue recognition on contracts.
X Adequacy of contract related provisions.
X Purchase price allocation on Foster Wheeler acquisition.
X Tax planning and deferred tax asset recognition.
X Risk of fraud and management override.
Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 14m 2013: 15m, which is calculated as 5% of adjusted profit before tax, key elements of which are outlined below.
We believe that this adjusted profit measure provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 87 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued How we determined materiality: Starting basis Profit before tax 155m Adjustments Exceptional items: X Transaction, integration and other exceptional costs of 82m X Loss on business disposals and closures of 16m Asbestos-related costs of 9m Tax on results of joint ventures of 6m Materiality Take 5% of the adjusted profit before tax Audit procedures have been performed on material exceptional items.
The adjusted profit before tax provides a basis for identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment and other qualitative considerations, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% 2013: 75% of planning materiality, namely 7m 2013: 11m.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to reduce to an appropriate level the probability that the aggregate of total undetected and uncorrected misstatements for the accounts as a whole did not exceed our planning materiality.
Due to the Foster Wheeler acquisition, Amec Foster Wheeler plc is now a dual listed entity in the UK and US for the first time and there is therefore a change in the overall risk profile from the prior year which is reflected in the lower performance materiality.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1m to 7m.
The upper end of the range was allocated to those components which reflected 100% of a single line item within the consolidated balance sheet or the related notes.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2013: 0.5m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Scope of our audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected 60 components which represent the principal business units within the Groups five reportable segments.
6 of these components were subject to a full audit, 36 were subject to a specific scope audit and 18 were subject to a limited scope audit.
The extent of audit work on specific and limited scope audits was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement outlined below and the materiality of the locations business operations relative to the Group.
The audit procedures at specific scope components may not include testing of all significant accounts of the location but accounts subject to audit procedure contribute to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
The group audit team directs the component teams at all stages of the audit.
Full and specific component testing of significant risks focused on revenue recognition on contracts, adequacy of contract related provisions, tax, litigation and purchase price allocation.
Amec Foster Wheeler 88 Annual report and accounts 2014 For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to test or assess that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in these components in relation to the Group financial statements.
The components subject to full audit or specific scope audit procedures accounted for 92% of Group revenue and 90% of the Groups profit before tax.
For components that comprise a sub consolidation, further scoping has been performed.
This means that not all balances within certain full scope components have been audited.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each full scope location at least once every two years on a rotational basis.
The group audit team visited 5 components in total over the course of the current year audit including Amec Foster Wheeler head office in London, UK, Foster Wheeler head office in Reading, UK, Amec Foster Wheeler in Knutsford, UK, Foster Wheeler in New Jersey, USA, Amec Europe in Aberdeen, UK, and Amec Americas in Toronto, Canada.
The group audit team were responsible for auditing 29 components directly, including 1 full scope, 16 specific scope and 12 limited scope audits.
For all full scope entities, the group audit team has reviewed key working papers and challenged conclusions on significant risk areas relevant to each component, as identified at the scoping stage, primarily revenue recognition on contracts, adequacy of contract related provisions and the purchase price allocation on the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements and consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources and the efforts of the engagement team, including the more senior members of the team: Principal risk area and rationale Response Revenue recognition on contracts & adequacy of contract related provisions Amec Foster Wheeler has reimbursable cost, lump sum We performed audit procedures on the controls in place and target cost contracts.
The majority of contracts are to assess the appropriate determination of the percentage reimbursable, however, the acquisition of Foster Wheeler has completion of each significant fixed price contract.
increased the exposure of the enlarged Group to fixed price We challenged management in respect of the reasonableness contracts and the risks associated with these contracts.
of judgements made regarding the cost to complete Contract accounting and the associated judgements over estimate, the timing of recognition of variation orders, and revenue and costs is highlighted as a key estimate in Amec the appropriateness of assumptions made in calculating Foster Wheelers accounting policies.
Risks include: Whilst revenue recognised on Foster Wheeler contracts was not material to the Group in 2014, we focussed our audit X inappropriate percentage of completion accounting: testing on the recoverability of unbilled receivable balances X incorrect recognition of variation orders: and adequacy of cost contingencies within contracts.
X inappropriate end life forecast costs, estimated profit and We challenged managements assessments around the contingencies: potential for liquidated damages for projects behind schedule and the adequacy of contingency provisions to mitigate X inaccurate recognition of costs: and contract specific risks.
For those balances subject to claims X warranty accounting based upon inaccurate data and we made enquires of external and internal legal counsel.
We consider these to be the key judgemental areas driving Contract related provisions comprise disputes with customers, the recognition of revenue and margins in respect of long application of the Groups aged WIP policy, recoverability of term contracts.
We also assessed whether managements receivables and other contractual disputes.
policies and processes for making these estimates continue to be appropriate and are applied consistently to all contracts Risks include: of a similar nature.
X unrecorded liabilities for contractual disputes: and X mis-application of Groups accounting policies.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 89 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Principal risk area and rationale Response Preliminary purchase price allocation on Foster Wheeler acquisition On 13 November 2014, the Group acquired Foster Wheeler AG We focused on this area given the significant judgements for 1.9bn.
The acquisition accounting includes the need to involved in assessing the preliminary fair values of assets determine the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and liabilities acquired for the purposes of the 2014 Group at the acquisition date.
This included complex valuation financial statements.
The fair values are based on valuation considerations and required the use of specialists.
techniques built, in part, on assumptions around the future performance of the business.
We challenged the assumptions Risks include: underpinning the valuations, assessed the fair value of the X inappropriate judgements in determining the fair values for identified assets and liabilities, audited the accounting the assets acquired: differences upon alignment of policy and IFRS conversion and evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures in the Groups X use of inaccurate forecast financial and operational data that financial statements.
underpins valuations: The two most significant adjustments recognised were for X costs are provided before there is an obligation: and acquired intangible assets 738m and asbestos liabilities X accounting policy differences on the Foster Wheeler 347m.
X With involvement of EY valuation specialists, we challenged and evaluated managements valuation of acquired intangible assets as prepared by their advisers.
This included challenge of the key assumptions made by management, such as the discount rates and royalty rates applied, and the projected financial information.
We have re-performed certain aspects of the valuation.
We consider that the preliminary valuation for the total intangibles recognised on acquisition falls within a reasonable range.
X The Company utilised a third party actuarial firm to estimate the fair value of the asbestos-related liability.
Significant inputs into the liability estimate include number of open claims, estimated cost per claim and forecasted future claim levels.
In addition, there are assumptions including the discount rate and risk free rate within the actuarial analysis to determine the fair value of the liability.
We tested the accuracy of a sample of claims data to source documentation and verified the completeness and accuracy of the data utilized in the valuation to the claims database.
We also engaged EY actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness of the methodology followed and to evaluate the significant assumptions utilised in the valuation.
We also considered alternative assumptions to challenge the sensitivities and uncertainties relating to the liabilities.
We challenged the recognition and measurement of other adjustments recognised including legal and environmental provisions and unfavourable lease obligations, for which further EY specialists assistance was obtained where necessary.
Amec Foster Wheeler 90 Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risk area and rationale Response Goodwill impairment The Group has 2,390m goodwill at the year end.
This has We challenged the allocation of goodwill arising on acquisition increased by 1,633m from 2013, largely as a result of the to cash generating units.
Irrespective of whether there is We reviewed the valuations prepared by management and any indication of impairment, goodwill acquired in a business supporting third party evidence.
We have performed audit combination is required to be tested for impairment annually.
procedures on the integrity of models and appropriateness of An impairment arises when the recoverable amount is less cash generating units.
than the carrying value of the investment.
We challenged the assumptions used in respect of forecast Risks include: growth rates and involved EY valuation specialists to review X the incorrect determination of the cash generating units used the appropriateness of the discount rates used which to assess goodwill for impairment: included comparison to economic and industry forecasts where appropriate.
X the incorrect allocation of goodwill to cash generating units: We have compared the forecasts used in generating the X inaccurate models are used to calculate the Value in Use of value in use to current trading conditions, and challenged cash generating units: and management on the assumptions underpinning the forecasts.
X the assumptions to support goodwill values e. g. discount We applied professional scepticism when reviewing the rates and growth rates are inappropriate.
forecasts by stress testing key assumptions, assessing the impact on the sensitivity analysis, and understanding the degree to which assumptions would need to move before impairment would be triggered.
Tax planning and reserves The Group enters into tax planning strategies to reduce its We challenged and applied professional scepticism to tax tax exposure where tax laws permit.
In particular there are exposures estimated by management and the risk analysis financing structures in Canada, the US and Australia that associated with these exposures along with claims or reduce the overall tax rate of the Group.
Risk provisions are assessments made by tax authorities to date.
We have held where it is more likely than not that a liability will crystallise audited the components of the tax risk provision to ensure in relation to planning, a tax position taken in relation to they reflect the tax risks in the business and that the submitted returns or a tax audit.
The amount of provision and provisions are appropriate in the circumstances.
We have also whether it is more likely than not that it will crystallise are both reviewed documentation in relation to tax audits to ensure judgemental areas.
that any exposures the tax authorities are raising have been considered and provided for where necessary.
Given the volume and complexity of the intra-group transactions including management recharges, transfer pricing We have reviewed the significant transfer pricing policies is an area of complexity and judgement, and is closely managed.
applied by the Group and the support for them.
We have Certain provisions recorded to reflect areas of uncertainty.
challenged these where appropriate, with involvement of our own specialists, and ensured that the tax risk provision Risks include: includes appropriate provisions for such risks.
X significant judgements involved in determining the provision for tax liabilities, can result in misstatement of provisions: and X there are a range of possible transfer prices, therefore there is a risk of challenge by the tax authorities, particularly with the increased focus on tax and multinational businesses.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 91 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Principal risk area and rationale Response Deferred tax asset recognition There are significant deferred tax assets in the US, Canada We challenged and applied professional scepticism to and Australia, the recognition of which depends on the future managements rationale for their reassessment of forecast profit forecasts for those businesses.
As the forecasts, and what models, considered the appropriateness of managements period can reliably be forecasted are inherently judgemental assumptions and the consistency of approach across the this is an area we focus on.
various tax groups in relation to the likelihood of generating suitable future profits to support the recognition of deferred Risks include: tax assets.
X significant judgements involved in determining the recognition We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting taxable of deferred tax can result in misstatement of deferred tax profits and the integrity of the forecast models and, as a assets and liabilities, and therefore the groups tax charge and result of these procedures, we formed our own view on effective tax rate.
the Groups capacity to obtain effective relief for deferred tax assets.
In particular we assessed the consistency between the different countries regarding the recognition of deferred taxes, and that a consistent methodology was applied by the Foster Wheeler entities.
Adequacy of legacy liabilities Risk remains with divested businesses in respect of claims or We challenged and applied professional scepticism potential claims.
Determining the impact and likely outcome of to judgements and accounting treatments made by any litigation matters requires significant judgement.
Therefore, management arising from contractual disputes and other estimating litigation reserves and contingent liabilities can risks.
We performed audit procedures on supporting involve highly judgemental estimates.
calculations and assumptions to challenge whether these are appropriate in the circumstances and in line with the Groups Risks include: accounting policies as well as the requirements of IFRS.
X the judgements involved in determining the likely outcome Where appropriate we have held discussions with of legal cases or investigations results in a risk those legal managements legal experts, and also obtained and provisions may be incorrect: and considered legal letters and other supporting documentation.
X failure to provide on a timely basis for claims due to lack of understanding or awareness of the claim.
Presentation of exceptional items Amec Foster Wheeler consider the separate reporting of We have tested a sample of costs classed as exceptional to exceptional costs helps to provide a better indication of the assess whether the cost has been recorded in the appropriate groups underlying business performance where items are period.
We have also challenged whether the items are material by size or nature.
recorded in line with the Groups policy for exceptional items and are excluded from trading profit appropriately.
Continuing pre-tax exceptional costs recorded in the current year are 107m 2013: 25m.
In particular, we have reviewed, and challenged the appropriateness of the workings and rationale supporting the Risks include: inclusion of internal labour within acquisition and integration X inappropriate classification of costs as exceptional items: costs, as well as restructuring costs.
X inconsistent treatment of exceptional items from year to year: We have applied specific consideration to the level of and transparency of the disclosures and that the policy has been consistently applied year on year.
X inappropriate quantification of exceptional costs.
Amec Foster Wheeler 92 Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risk area and rationale Response Risk of fraud and management override The risk of fraud exists in any business.
However, fraud involving Procedures included analytical procedures and journal the manipulation of results to achieve performance targets entry testing in order to identify and address the risk of are particularly harmful to shareholder value and the current management override of controls.
We designed testing economic environment has increased their risk of occurrence.
procedures and thresholds for all balances in such a way as to ensure that the risk of fraud and error is mitigated.
Furthermore, the evolution of the business and geographical footprint across new territories heightens the risk of fraud and We have reviewed group internal audit reports in remote bribery and corruption.
Business practice in emerging markets locations and assessed whether findings are indicative of may expose Amec Foster Wheeler to financial, legal and fraudulent activities, tailoring our audit approach accordingly.
We have reviewed key management bonus and long term Risks include: incentive plans and challenged assumptions used in the calculations.
X manipulation of results to achieve performance targets: We challenged and corroborated the basis of managements X asset mis-appropriation, particularly involving third party key estimates.
suppliers who may overbill for goods or services: and We considered Transparency Internationals Corruption X facilitation payments.
Perception Index 2013 when performing our scoping exercise.
Components with significant operations in countries which are high on the Index have been included in our in scope components.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: X the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and X the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 86, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 93 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or X is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or X certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: X the directors statement, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern: and X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor, London 26 March 2015 Notes 1 The maint enance and integrity of the Amec Foster Wheeler Plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Amec Foster Wheeler 94 Annual report and accounts 2014
