ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of ITV plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 107 to 165.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The Audit Committees consideration of these significant risks is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 75.
The risk Our response Revenue recognition and contractual arrangements see note 2.1 The Groups revenue consists primarily of advertising, programme production and programme rights.
Net Advertising Revenue NAR 1,629 million Our audit procedures included: The majority of ITVs advertising revenue NAR is subject to Testing of controls, assisted by our own IT specialists, regulation under Ofcoms Contract Rights Renewal system including those over: input of individual campaigns terms CRR.
CRR works by ensuring that the annual share of and pricing: comparison of those terms and pricing data television advertising that will be placed with ITV by each against the related overarching contracts with advertising advertising agency can change in relation to the viewing agencies: linkage to transmission viewer data: and figures for commercial television that it delivers.
The CRR segregation of duties: system, the pricing of the annual contractual arrangements Testing managements review controls over: contract with advertising agencies and the details of each advertising approval: periodic deal reconciliations: and the deal debt campaign, together with the related processes and controls, adjustment: are complex and involve estimation.
Analysis of revenue based on our industry knowledge and In particular, the pricing mechanism means it is possible for a external market data, following up variances: and difference to arise between the price received by ITV for an Challenging the year-end deal debt adjustment based on advertising campaign and the value it delivered, mainly as a comparison with customers correspondence and agreed result of the actual viewing figures being different from the terms of business.
Where the Group has over-delivered viewers this is referred to as a deal credit, or a deal debt where We also assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures delivery has fallen short.
Rather than the price paid for that in respect of the accounting policies on revenue campaign being adjusted, these differences are noted for recognition set out in note 2.1. each agency and then taken account of when agreeing either future campaigns or the annual contract.
A net deal debt position with an agency is recorded in ITVs accounts, as a liability.
Net deal credit positions are not recognised.
NAR is therefore considered a significant risk due to: The number and complexity of contractual agreements with advertising agencies: The complexity of the systems and processes of control used to record revenue: and, The level of estimation involved in determining the deal debt liability at the period end.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements The risk Our response Other revenue streams Non-NAR revenue 961 million Our audit procedures included testing of controls over the Non-NAR revenue includes revenue from: programme timing of revenue recognition, and the accounting for new production: the sale of programme rights, transmission contractual arrangements.
We considered the revenue supply arrangements: and the Online, Pay & Interactive policies against the relevant accounting standards.
division within the Broadcast segment.
For the larger contracts entered into during the year, and for a statistical sample of all contracts, we tested whether Recognition of non-NAR revenue is driven by the specific revenue had been recognised in accordance with the terms of the related contracts.
It is considered to be a risk as contractual terms, given the requirements of the relevant the contracts can be complex and the terms are varied, with accounting standard.
the result that accounting for the revenue generated in any given period can require individual consideration.
Acquisition of Leftfield Entertainment initial consideration 214 million and goodwill arising 139 million see notes 3.3 and 3.4 During the year, ITV acquired 80% of Leftfield Our audit procedures included: Entertainment.
Acquisition accounting is considered a Inspecting the terms of the acquisition contracts to significant risk as a result of the following factors: determine our view of the appropriate accounting The Group is required to make a number of judgements, treatment of performance related consideration which focus on, but are not limited to: assessment arrangements against the criteria of the relevant of whether the performance related consideration accounting standards.
arrangements are acquisition consideration or postUsing our own valuation specialists to assist us in: critically acquisition remuneration, and identification of intangible assessing both the appropriateness of the identified assets acquired.
intangibles, against the criteria of the relevant accounting In determining the fair value of the acquired intangible standards, and the appropriateness of the discount rates: assets and the contingent consideration and remuneration and comparing the inputs used in determining the discount payable, medium term cash flow forecasts have been rate to externally derived data.
The inherent uncertainty involved in Testing the principles and integrity of the Groups cash forecasting future cash flows and the judgement involved in flow model.
We compared the Groups forecast revenue the selection of the appropriate discount rate makes this a growth and margins assumptions to externally derived key area of focus.
data as well as our own assessments in relation to ITV is also required to exercise judgement in allocating, for key inputs, such as the likelihood of both shows being the purpose of annual impairment testing, the goodwill recommissioned and new commissions.
arising to the cash generating units expected to benefit Critically assessing the Groups determination of cashfrom the acquisition.
generating units expected to benefit from the acquisition against the criteria in the relevant accounting standards.
We inspected Board minutes and monthly internal reporting to corroborate the Groups assessment of the separability of cash flows and assets.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the acquisition and the related judgements in note 3.4.
103 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only continued The risk Our response Defined benefit pension schemes 346 million, see note 3.7 Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups postIn this area our audit procedures included challenging retirement defined benefit schemes.
the key assumptions applied in determining the Groups net deficit, being the discount rate, inflation rate and The key valuation assumptions are set out in note 3.7 in the mortality life expectancy, with the support of our own Assumptions section.
When making these assumptions the actuarial specialists.
This included a comparison of these Group takes independent actuarial advice relating to their key assumptions against externally derived data.
We obtained third party confirmation of the pension The valuation is considered to be a significant risk as, given schemes assets as at 31 December 2014. the quantum of the scheme assets and scheme liabilities, small changes in the assumptions can have a material We also considered the adequacy of the Groups financial impact on the Group.
disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficits to these assumptions in note 3.7.
Royalty accruals 70 million, see note 3.1.
5 The Group pays royalties directly to artists producers Among other procedures, we tested controls over the for all content used.
The contractual terms of these recording of royalty costs and the approval of royalty agreements are varied and complex.
The related IT systems can only address part of the We also reperformed a sample of the Groups annual processing, necessitating a significant manual element royalty calculations, agreeing key inputs to contracts and in calculating royalty accruals recorded by the Group.
Overall the process is complex, though core to the Groups In addition, we performed analytical procedures operations.
comparing royalty costs as a percentage of the related The volume and variety of contracts being interpreted and income streams to budgets and prior periods, taking accounted for combined with the manual nature of the account of any known changes.
process increases the risk of error.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 25 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 4.1%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom and represent over 90% of Group revenue, 97% Group profit before tax and 94% of Group total assets.
Only the UK operations are scoped in for Group audit purposes.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the UK operations as if they were a single aggregated set of financial information using materiality of 23 million.
Although not in scope for Group reporting purposes, in agreement with the Audit Committee, specified audit procedures were also performed on two entities in the US by component auditors simultaneously with the audit of the Group and UK operations.
Together the above audit and these specified audit procedures covered 96% of total Group revenue, 99% of Group profit before taxation: and 99% of total Group assets.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 66, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 68 to 74 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 4 March 2015 105 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Introduction and Table of Contents In this section...
The financial statements have been presented in a style which attempts to make them less complex and more relevant to shareholders.
We have grouped the note disclosures into five sections: Basis of Preparation, Results for the Year, Operating Assets and Liabilities, Capital Structure and Financing Costs and Other Notes.
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in producing the relevant notes, along with details of any key judgements and estimates used.
The purpose of this format is to provide readers with a clearer understanding of what drives financial performance of the Group.
The aim of the text in boxes is to provide commentary on each section, or note, in plain English.
Keeping it simple... Notes to the financial statements provide information required by statute, accounting standards or Listing Rules to explain a particular feature of the financial statements.
The notes which follow will also provide explanations and additional disclosure to assist readers understanding and interpretation of the Annual Report and the financial statements.
Contents Page Primary Statements Consolidated Income Statement 107 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 108 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 109 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 110 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 112 Section 1: Basis of Preparation 113 Section 2: Results for the Year 117 2.1 Profit before tax 117 2.2 Exceptional items 121 2.3 Taxation 122 2.4 Earnings per share 124 Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities 126 3.1 Working capital 126 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 129 3.3 Intangible assets 131 3.4 Acquisitions 136 3.5 Investments 139 3.6 Provisions 140 3.7 Pensions 140 Section 4: Capital Structure and Financing Costs 146 4.1 Net cash 146 4.2 Borrowings and finance leases 148 4.3 Managing market risks: derivative financial instruments 150 4.4 Net financing costs 153 4.5 Fair value hierarchy 154 4.6 Equity 155 4.7 Share-based compensation 156 Section 5: Other Notes 159 5.1 Related party transactions 159 5.2 Contingent liabilities 159 5.3 Subsidiaries exempt from audit 160 ITV plc Company Financial Statements 161 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 162 106 slugline
