Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report on the financial statements Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements Our opinion and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based In our opinion: on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 15 March 2014 and misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Companys cash flows for the 52 weeks then ended: Overview of our audit approach Materiality the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of European Union: misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements as a whole to be 40 million.
This represents approximately 5 per cent of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for one-off items, as defined the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the in note 3 on page 93.
We believe basing materiality on this adjusted profit requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group measure is appropriate as it is a measure of recurring performance.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of misstatements identified during our audit above 3 million as well as this report.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Company financial statements the Overview of the scope of our audit financial statements, which are prepared by J Sainsbury plc, comprise: The Groups businesses are organised into three operating segments, being the Group and Company balance sheets at 15 March 2014: retailing, financial services and property investments, as defined in note 4 to the financial statements.
The financial statements are a consolidation of six the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for reporting units, which cover the Groups retailing and financial services the 52 weeks then ended: businesses Sainsburys Supermarkets Limited and Sainsburys Bank plc, the Group and Company statements of changes in equity and cash flow theBank, centralised functions including J Sainsbury plc, property statements for the 52 weeks then ended: and companies and joint ventures.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and by other The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to as regards the Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether Companies Act 2006. sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial statements 2014 Of the Groups six reporting units, we identified two J Sainsbury plc and the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd which, in our view, required an audit of their These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk asaudited.
In addition, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Bank as at 28 February 2014 and for the one month period What an audit of financial statements involves then ended, being the period from the date of acquisition.
Specified audit We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on procedures on material balances and transactions were performed at the Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining remaining three reporting units.
This, together with additional procedures evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements performed at the Group level, such as on tax, the acquisition accounting for sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the Bank and the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Areas of particular audit focus Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of adequately disclosed: subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by Directors: and assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our the overall presentation of the financial statements.
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 77 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be combination of both.
significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 52.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts We understood and tested the interface between the three systems in place over supplier incentives, rebates and discounts to satisfy ourselves as to the We focused on this area as supplier incentives, rebates and discounts accuracy and integrity of the data.
represent a material reduction in cost of sales expenses.
The calculation of We tested the accuracy of a sample of key inputs to individual supplier these amounts is in part dependent on an estimation of whether amounts agreements.
We then re-performed managements calculations, using due under supplier agreements have been earned at the balance sheet date the tested inputs, to determine the accuracy of the amounts recognised.
based on either inventory purchased or goods sold.
Furthermore the process for calculating and recording supplier incentives, rebates and discounts We performed procedures to identify any significant transactions recorded as involves significant manual processes which are more susceptible to error.
manual adjustments and obtained evidence to support the recognition and timing of those amounts based on the individual supplier agreements.
We performed year-end cut-off procedures to determine whether amounts were recorded in the correct period.
Acquisition accounting for Sainsburys Bank Our audit procedures to test the accounting for the transaction, included verifying the purchase price, contract clauses and terms connected with Following the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of Sainsburys Bank completion adjustments to the signed sale and purchase agreement.
on 31 January 2014, the Bank is now consolidated into the Group financial statements, with the assets and liabilities purchased being accounted for We evaluated the fair values allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired at fair values at the date of the acquisition.
by Sainsburys Group as part of the transaction with reference to appropriate supporting calculations and third party expert reports.
This included We focused on this area given the significant judgements involved in assessing whether the fair values allocated aligned to market expectations assessing the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired, as this directly based on our experience of other banking transactions.
impacts the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisition.
The fair values are based on valuation techniques built, in part, on assumptions about the Banks We tested all material consolidation entries recorded in connection with the future performance, which are inherently judgemental.
acquisition to determine whether the accounting was appropriate.
Furthermore, there was complexity involved in acquisition accounting for the Bank given it was previously held as a joint venture refer to note 37 of the financial statements.
Revenue recognition We tested the reconciliations between the revenue system, management accounts and the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We used data analytics to agree revenue from transactions recorded through the tills to cash or credit card receipts, which represents the vast majority of As the vast majority of revenue is settled in cash or by credit card we revenue recorded during the financial year.
focused on manual adjustments to revenue as they are more susceptible to manipulation.
In addition we tested significant manual journal entries posted to revenue which included non-cash adjustments for items such as staff discounts, coupon redemptions and gift vouchers cards, to identify and understand unusual or irregular items and obtained evidence to support their recognition.
Accounting for property transactions We obtained an understanding of the underlying commercial rationale for each material property transaction.
A number of significant property transactions took place during the year.
We evaluated the control environment surrounding the accounting for We focused on these transactions as they were material in value and complex property transactions including testing of controls around disposal control in nature, requiring consideration of the point at which the risks and rewards forms and the approval of major capital expenditure projects.
of ownership were transferred to or from the Group, which affects the recognition of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Directors also Our audit procedures included obtaining and reviewing the legal documents had to exercise judgement in determining whether properties held under to fully understand the terms and conditions of each transaction and lease agreements were classified as either finance or operating leases refer therefore the associated accounting implications.
We evaluated the to note 11 and note 33 of the financial statements.
appropriateness of the accounting treatments adopted and obtained independent valuation assessments for a sample of properties to test that the properties had been valued appropriately.
Impairment of land and stores under construction We obtained managements impairment assessment for land and stores under construction to assess whether or not the recoverable amount of the We focused on the carrying value of property held for development given assets were below their carrying values.
the impairment recognised during the year and the judgements involved in determining the recoverable amount.
We evaluated the assumptions and valuation methodology used by management and the validity of data for a sample of assets.
For those assets where recoverable amount was determined on a value in use basis we compared forecast sales with existing comparable stores.
For those stores where recoverable amount was determined based on fair value less costs to dispose, we compared investment yields with industry standards and appropriate independent benchmarks.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 78 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of management override of internal controls We performed a fraud risk assessment in order to identify specific areas of risk relating to management override of controls.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We performed testing of journals, with particular focus on manual adjustments to the income statement, to mitigate the risk of manipulation of revenue and profit figures.
We independently assessed and challenged accounting estimates relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, for example provisions, asset impairments, income taxes, post-employment benefits and assets useful economic lives.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow and held meetings with members of the Board and Operating Board as well as the Groups Internal Audit function.
On page 76 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Going concern Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, on fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for page 75, in relation to going concern.
We have no exceptions to report arising members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 52, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern report to you if, in our opinion: basisof accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us tothe Audit Committee.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
to continue as a going concern.
Other information in the Annual Report Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Act 2006 information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, consistent with the financial statements: and our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. is otherwise misleading.
Other matters on which we are required to report We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
byexception Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations Our responsibilities and those of the Directors received As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not and fair view.
visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require our audit.
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Directors remuneration Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come been made.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Corporate governance statement Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate for and on behalf of  LLP Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have London nothing to report having performed our review.
6 May 2014 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 79
