INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JIMMYCHOO PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT PRESENTATION OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 13.0M 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED Refer to page 54 Audit and Risk Committee Report, note 1.17 We have audited the financial statements of JimmyChoo PLC for accounting policy and note 5 financial disclosures.
the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 81 to 122.
THE RISK In our opinion: Operating profit before exceptional items is a key performance the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state measure for the Group.
Exceptional items are defined by the ofthe Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at Groupinan accounting policy set out in the financial statements.
31December 2014 and of the loss of the Group for the year Theidentification of items as exceptional, and their quantification, thenended: requires the application of significant judgement.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in OUR RESPONSE accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Our audit procedures in this area included: adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly we obtained a listing of the items identified as exceptional by the prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and Group, discussed with the Group the rationale for classifying them the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with as exceptional and critically assessed whether the items meet the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards definition of exceptional items as set out in the Groups theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT we selected a sample of the underlying items which are In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the aggregated and classified as exceptional and agreed these items risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our back to supporting documentation: and audit were as follows: we considered whether any other items we became aware of inthe course of our audit work might be considered to be REVENUE RECOGNITION REVENUE 299.7M exceptional under the definition set out in the Groups Refer to page 54 Audit and Risk Committee Report, note 1.15 accountingpolicies.
accounting policy and note 3 financial disclosures.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect THE RISK of exceptional items.
Revenue is a key performance measure for the Group and a key driver for gross margin which is a further key indicator of Group 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALIT Y AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT performance.
There are different revenue streams within the Group including for example, retail including concessions, wholesale and The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set online that have differing revenue recognition criteria and accounting at 2.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group loss processes handling a high volume of transactions.
Due to its before tax normalised for interest and exceptional costs 35.7m of materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole which it represents 5.6%.
revenue is considered to be one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or planning and completing our audit.
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.1m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on OUR RESPONSE qualitative grounds.
Our audit procedures in this area included: Of the groups seventeen reporting components, we subjected six to we tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls audits for group reporting purposes and two to specified risk-focused around the recognition of revenue, including those related to the audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant reconciliation of cash receipts to sales records: enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did we used a statistical sampling tool to select manual journals present specific individual risks, principally around revenue recognition, posted to revenue to critically assess whether these journals were that needed to be addressed.
These Group procedures covered 91% appropriate and supported by documentation where relevant: of total Group revenue: 97% of Group profit before taxation: and 96% we selected samples of sale transactions from either side of the of total Group assets.
financial year end and, to assess the appropriateness of the timing of revenue recognition compared those sales to supporting The remaining 9% of total Group revenue, 3% of Group profit documentation: and before taxation and 4% of total Group assets is represented by nine we challenged the adequacy of the groups provision for returns reporting components, none of which individually represented more inthe light of the historical pattern of credits given for returns.
than 10% of any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, or total Group assets.
For these remaining components, we performed We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment of revenue recognition.
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement withinthese.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JIMMYCHOO PLC ONLY CONTINUED The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed inour opinion: above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materiality of 1.5m, having regard to the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Group audit team visited three component locations in UK and USA from branches not visited by us: or to perform the audit work.
The work on all of the remaining in scope the parent company financial statements and the part of the components was performed by component auditors.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Telephone conference meetings were held with these component certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are auditors.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit not made: or team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by we have not received all the information and explanations we the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MAT TERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion: the directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 48 been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of 2006: and the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MAT TERS ON As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION set out on page 75, the directors are responsible for the preparation Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial identified other information in the annual report that contains a statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial at www.
This report is made solely statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise tothe Companys members as a body and is subject to important misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which we have identified material inconsistencies between the are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work statement that they consider that the annual report and financial we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Auditand Risk Committee.
WAYNE COX SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants St Nicholas House Park Row Nottingham NG1 6FQ 18 March 2015 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80
