Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, John Wood Group PLCs financial statements the financial statements : X give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: X have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and X have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited John Wood Group PLCs financial statements comprise: X the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: X the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: X the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: X the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and X the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report & accounts the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview X Overall Group materiality: $23 million 2013: $22m which represents 5% of the Groups profit before tax Materiality X We performed audit work across five countries - UK, USA, Oman, Australia, and Canada X Our audit work accounted for approximately 70% of Group revenues and 77% of the Groups profit before tax X We supplemented this with work at the Groups head office in Aberdeen Audit Scope X Carrying value of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture X Carrying value of goodwill and intangibles Area of X Subjective provisions focus X Revenue recognition in significant contracts X Uncertain tax provisions 46 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report continued The area of our audit focus specifically included We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
As part of this we considered the appropriateness of the classification of exceptional items.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture In May 2014 the Group entered into a joint venture with Siemens to create We have evaluated and challenged managements assessment of the EthosEnergy.
At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of the investment in carrying value at 31 December 2014 with a focus on the future cash flow the joint venture was $360.2m.
forecasts as compared to the recent performance of EthosEnergy.
Since formation the joint venture has not performed as well as expected Our challenge focused on: which, together with a challenging trading outlook, indicates the investment X The significant revenue and profit growth assumptions within may be impaired.
the forecast cash flows for the next 2 years.
These were supported Management performed an impairment assessment at 31 December 2014 by backlog, current sales pipeline and strategic opportunities together which took into consideration the performance of EthosEnergy since its with a comparison to historic performance.
We also focused on establishment and the forecasted future cash flows to determine the value planned synergies for example leveraging supplier relationships and in use of the joint venture compared to its carrying value, to ascertain future cost reduction plans.
whether the carrying value was impaired.
X The longer term growth rate assumptions by comparing them to Managements assessment of the value in use is judgemental in nature economic and industry forecasts: and because it is based on forecasted results and uncertain outcomes.
As a result this is an area of focus for our audit.
X The post-tax discount rate used of 11% pre-tax 15% by benchmarking against the rates used by comparable organisations in the economic environments in which EthosEnergy operates.
We found the key drivers assumptions above used in the cash flow forecasts to be acceptable, although, we note that these assumptions are sensitive and as a result detailed disclosures regarding key drivers and assumptions have been set out within the investments note of the financial statements.
As reflected in the disclosures, upward changes to the discount rate and downward changes to the growth rate may result in elimination of the headroom.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangibles The carrying value of goodwill and intangibles as at 31 December 2014 is We evaluated and challenged managements future cash flow forecasts $1,943.5m.
This relates to a number of acquisitions, the most significant of and tested the underlying value in use model.
We assessed the which is PSN goodwill $900m which was acquired in 2011. appropriateness of the inputs into managements model through challenge of the following key assumptions: Managements assessment of the value in use of the Groups Cash Generating Units CGUs involves judgements about the future results of the X The long term growth rate of 3% by comparing it with economic and industry forecasts and, in particular, considering the recent fall in the business and the discount rates applied to future cash flow forecasts.
This is price of crude oil: and particularly relevant at the current time due to the lower price of crude oil.
X The post-tax discount rate used ranging from 9% to 11% 12% to 15% pre-tax depending on region was benchmarked against the rates used by comparable organisations in the economic environments in which Wood Group operates.
We performed additional sensitivities to those performed by management on the key assumptions.
Any changes in the assumptions that would result in a material impairment are considered unlikely, but given the nature of the estimates, are not without risk.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Subjective provisions There are a number of provisions across the Group that require significant Due to the highly judgemental nature of subjective provisions, our testing management judgement during the estimation process.
We have focused focused on the need for provisions and the accuracy of the amounts on the following: recorded.
Our work focused on the following most significant provisions: Oman onerous contract provision In 2013 management recorded Oman onerous contract provision - We tested the calculation of the an onerous contract provision in relation to Oman.
At 31 December 2014 provision by challenging management on the following key assumptions: $15m of this provision remains after a release of $9.7m and is expected to X Future losses compared with historic performance and expected be utilised in 2015 when the contract will be exited.
activity changes: and The provision is based on expected losses and estimated exit costs still to be incurred and as such, remains subjective in nature.
X Exit costs provision for completeness and accuracy based on available information and our knowledge of the known costs to exit for example Provision against trade receivables balances In the current lower oil employee termination costs.
price environment there is a heightened risk of non-recovery of amounts X On the basis of the work we performed we concluded that there is still due from customers.
Provisions against receivables have increased from sufficient evidence to support the recognition of the onerous contract $25m to $47m in the year.
provision and consider the level of provision is appropriate based on the future expected cash outflows in Oman.
Provisions against trade receivable balances - We performed detailed sample tests of accounts receivable including agreement to original invoice, tests of ageing, circularisation of customers and agreement to subsequent receipts.
In addition we also focused our work in areas where the level of provisioning has increased to understand the specific customer disputes which have been provided.
Based on the evidence we have seen we consider the level of provisions to be adequate and supportable.
We also performed legal enquiries and audit procedures in respect of ongoing legal cases and warranty claims and did not identify the need for any material provisions.
Revenue recognition in significant contracts There is a risk of material misstatement over revenue recognition and We reviewed the significant contracts across the Group and met with both unbilled revenue as it relates to Wood Groups significant contracts.
senior management and operational staff to corroborate our understanding of Most of the Groups contracts are reimbursable in nature however, in the the operations and future outcomes of these contracts, including any ongoing current environment of significantly lower crude oil prices, Wood Groups disputes with customers.
We tested the recognition of unbilled revenue for customers are increasingly more cost focused: therefore, recognition of evidence to support customer acceptance of the work performed.
unbilled work in progress is an area of focus.
We focused our procedures on revenue where it is subject to Wood Group also have a small number of major lump sum and fixed price managements estimates such as costs incurred versus costs to complete.
contracts which represent less than 5% of the Groups total revenue.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition by reconciling to the contract Revenue on these contracts is recognised based on the stage of completion terms and reviewing journal entries impacting revenue.
We tested the profit reached by measuring the proportion of costs incurred against total taken in the context of the revenue recognition over the life of the contract.
Measuring the costs to completion is a key judgement in These procedures included agreement of a sample of significant revenue respect of the revenue recognition on these contracts.
As such there is a risk streams to documents such as invoices, evidence of delivery, cash receipts, that material revenue amounts may either be recognised inaccurately or in and order variations.
No significant issues arose from our work.
Uncertain tax provisions The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions and has a number of ongoing We evaluated and challenged managements rationale for the level of provisions disputes and investigations with tax authorities where certain tax positions and held.
We considered the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries, treatments may be successfully challenged at a later date.
the outturn of previous claims, the macro-tax environment in each territory, and where necessary the statute of limitations for open enquiries.
There is judgement required in assessing the level of provisions to cover the risk of successful challenge of certain of the Groups tax positions.
We also considered any interest and penalty regimes that could apply Provisions are held principally in respect of current tax deductions should any of the tax positions be successfully challenged.
previously taken, ongoing tax audits, and uncertainties on the utilisation of This is an area which requires significant judgement and has a range of deferred tax assets tax losses and excess tax credits.
However from the evidence we have obtained and our challenge on the key assumptions we consider the overall level of provisioning in respect of uncertain tax provisions is reasonable in the context of our group materiality.
48 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
We scoped the audit by determining the reporting units which are significant for a full scope audit either based on contribution of profit to the Group or by inherent risk for example significant acquisitions in recent years such as Elkhorn and Mitchells.
We then looked for reporting units where individual account balances were significant to the Group as a whole and scoped these in for specified audit procedures for those account balances.
Where the work was performed by other audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work by these teams to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group engagement team in Aberdeen performed audit work at multiple locations in North America and the UK, including Head Office.
This was supplemented by PwC offices in Australia, Oman, Canada and Guernsey.
Together we obtained coverage of 70% of the Groups revenues and 77% of the profit before tax.
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury, acquisitions, impairment analysis, post-retirement benefits and litigation, were performed at the Groups head office.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality $23 million 2013: $22 million How we determined it Based on 5% of profit before tax We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an Rationale for benchmark applied alternative benchmark would be appropriate We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1m 2013: $1m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: X the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and X the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
X the statement given by the directors, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no exceptions to report the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and arising from this responsibility.
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
X the section of the annual report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions to report Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Independent auditors report continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 22, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: X whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: X the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and X the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of the John Wood Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Aberdeen 16 February 2015 50 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
