177 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnson Matthey Public Limited Company only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the accounts is unmodified We have audited the accounts of Johnson Matthey Plc for the year ended 31st March 2014 set out on pages 130 to 176.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31st March 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU : the parent company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the accounts, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Refinery process and stock takes Refer to page 100 Audit Committee Report and page 174 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response The group refines a significant amount of metal as set out in note 39.
We assessed through observation, interview and reperformance The year end metal inventory quantity is determined from: assay on a sample basis the adequacy of group controls over metal estimates of the metal contained in the carrier material entering processing and inventory including physical security, metal and refined metal leaving the refining process: and estimates of receipt dispatch, metal recording, assaying and stock takes.
process losses, rolled forward from assay estimates of the metal We attended physical stock takes to verify adherence to stock content in the plants at the time of the annual stock takes which take processes.
We sought to understand and corroborate the take place at different times earlier in the financial year.
Further, reasons for significant or unusual movements in inventory quantities in the main the plants process material on behalf of third parties between the accounting records and the physical stock takes.
whereby the group must return pre-agreed recoverable quantities We evaluated the roll forward of inventory from the point of stock of refined metal to those parties: under or over recoveries reduce take to the year end to assess the potential for misstatement.
or increase the groups own metal inventory.
We assessed provisions for inventory loss compared to historical The groups year end inventory quantities are subject to a trends and stock take results to assess the likelihood and significant degree of estimation across both its own inventory and quantum of processing loss if any of metal between the date the material being processed for third parties, such that a small of the stock take and the year end date.
variation in estimates could have a material effect on the accounts.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the measured inventory.
Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 100 Audit Committee Report, page 136 accounting policy and pages 155, 156 and 174 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response The group has significant intangible assets arising from the Our audit procedures included, among others, detailed testing acquisition of businesses and investments in new products and of the directors impairment assessment for each major asset.
Some investments are still at an early stage of We obtained the discounted cash flow models and assessed development and as such, carry a greater risk that they will not the principles and integrity of each model.
We critically assessed the groups valuation assumptions for its Recoverability of these assets is based on forecasting and cash flow projections, with reference to internally and externally discounting future cash flows, which are inherently judgmental.
derived sources and taking into account the groups historical forecasting accuracy.
We assessed the inputs based on our own insights and experience and also used our own valuation specialists in this evaluation.
We considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 178 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7.
Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnson Matthey Public Limited Company only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Post-employment benefits Refer to page 101 Audit Committee Report, page 138 accounting policy and pages 147 to 154 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Significant estimates are made in valuing the groups post-employment Our procedures, among others, included challenging the key benefit plans.
Small changes in assumptions and estimates used to assumptions, being the discount rates, inflation rates and value the groups net post-employment benefit liabilities would have mortality life expectancies supporting the groups post-employment a significant effect on the groups financial position.
benefit obligations valuations, with the support of our own actuarial specialists.
This included a comparison of these key assumptions used against externally derived data.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of post-employment benefits.
Taxation accounting Refer to page 101 Audit Committee Report, page 137 accounting policy and page 174 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response The group operates in multiple jurisdictions governed by national tax In this area our audit procedures included, among others, laws and regulations and is required to estimate the tax effect of assessment of correspondence with the relevant tax authorities cross border transactions including transfer pricing arrangements.
and the use of our own local and international tax specialists, who Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations on indirect have knowledge of the relevant indirect and direct tax regimes taxes and the tax payable on profits arising in those jurisdictions is and experience in their application, to analyse and challenge the unclear, the group seeks to make reasonable estimates to determine assumptions used to determine the tax charge.
We also assessed the tax charge arising.
the adequacy of the groups disclosures in this regard.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group accounts was set at 20.5 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
Materiality represents 5% of group profit before tax as disclosed on the face of the consolidated income statement.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.5 million, in addition to other misstatements below that amount that we believe warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we considered the decentralised nature of the groups operations, the risk profile of countries where the group operates, our historical audit findings and changes taking place within the business.
We also considered the financial significance and risks associated with each business together with any local statutory audit requirements.
Audits and specified procedures for group reporting purposes undertaken by the group team and component auditors, the most significant of which were in the UK, the US, Canada, Sweden, Germany, China, India, South Africa and Macedonia, covered 81% of group revenue, 90% of group profit before tax and 87% of group total assets.
The audits of the operating businesses for group reporting purposes were performed to local materiality levels.
These local materiality levels were set individually for each business and ranged from 0.1 million to 9.0 million.
KPMG is the local statutory auditor to many of the companys subsidiaries around the world performing work in addition to that required for group reporting purposes.
These local statutory audits are performed to local audit standards, and sometimes to a different reporting period to the group.
At businesses where KPMG does not perform audit work for group purposes we receive reports from local auditors on the results of their statutory audit work.
This enables us to consider whether there is a risk of significant misstatement to the groups results that could arise from these businesses.
In total these statutory audits comprise 15% of group revenue: 5% of group profit before tax and 4% of group total assets.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all auditors of operating businesses.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team follows a programme of site visits that is designed so that senior team members visit the groups key operations and local auditors on a rotational basis.
In addition to these visits, telephone and video conferences are held with component auditors at least once a year.
For the year ended 31st March 2014, the group audit team visited operations in the UK, the US, Canada, Sweden, Germany, China, India and Macedonia.
179 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnson Matthey Public Limited Company only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounts, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement in the Corporate Governance Report on page 85 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement on page 127, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 4th June 2014 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
