Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of JUST EAT plc Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the In our opinion: IASB As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards then ended: Board IASB.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs in accordance with International Financial Reporting as issued by the IASB.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly Going concern prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors Accepted Accounting Practice: and statement on page 146 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as we have concluded that the directors use of the going regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial IAS Regulation.
statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive going concern.
Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated However, because not all future events or conditions can be Cash Flow Statement, the Company Reconciliation of Movements predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups in Shareholders Funds, and the related notes 1 to 48.
The ability to continue as a going concern.
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. www.
com 81 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Business combinations We have performed the following procedures on the key As noted in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 53, judgement areas: there have been several changes in ownership of Group entities considared managements assessment of the nature of the and acquisitions during the year.
As detailed in notes 33 and combination, when control passed and the level of control 34, the total cash consideration for the acquisitions paid existing and compared that assessment with the provisions during the year was 14.4 million and a total of 10.9 million within IFRS 3 Business Combinations: of intangible assets and 43.1 million of goodwill has been recognised on acquisition.
A gain of 32.0 million has been examined signed sales and purchase agreements and recognised on the deemed disposal of FBA Invest SaS FBA associated contractual agreements to understand the terms and a gain of 5.8 million has been recognised on the partial and conditions of the transactions including the disposal of Just Eat Brazil Services Online Ltda.
Provisions appropriateness of the fair value of consideration determined totalling 9.1 million have been recorded in respect of the by management: buy-out of minority shareholders.
assessed the valuation models prepared by management to value the FBA Invest SAS and IF-JE Participaes Ltda The accounting for these transactions is complex due to the businesses, the FBA option arrangements, and the intangible judgements taken in the application of accounting standards, assets identified in the acquired businesses, using our for example in the valuation of the businesses, options specialists within the audit team to challenge the and forward contracts: the recognition and valuation of assumptions and methodology used by management: consideration: and the identification and valuation of intangible assets.
The associated judgements and estimates are described examined the inputs within the valuation models, including further in notes 4e and 4f to the financial statements and in the the future growth patterns to the historical trends achieved Report of the Audit Committee report on page 53. in more developed markets: and assessed whether the disclosures presented in note 33 and 34 to the financial statements are in line with the requirements of IFRS 3.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets We tested the assumptions used by management within their The Group holds goodwill of 51.2 million and intangible assets annual impairment assessment to support the recoverability of 12.7 million on its Balance Sheet at 31 December 2014. of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets.
Our work included: As described in the Report of the Audit Committee report on considering the projected future cash flow growth patterns page 54, and note 4e to the consolidated financial statements, to the historical trends achieved in more developed markets the impairment review process to test the recoverability of and comparing long-term growth rates to market data: goodwill and intangible assets arising on acquisitions involves the application of judgements and estimates by management.
engaging valuation specialists within the audit team to provide additional challenge regarding the calculations of There are particular risks regarding the judgements to the discount rate applied to these cash flows: and determine the recoverable amount, including the growth rates assessing the appropriateness of the sensitivities applied underlying projected future cash flows, the discount rates by management including considering whether the applied to those forecasts and the scenarios applied to test the scenarios represented reasonably possible changes sensitivity of the calculations to reasonably possible changes in in key assumptions.
We also considered whether that disclosures on the impairment test performed by management in the financial statements are in line with those prescribed in accounting standards.
82 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Share-based payments To assess the appropriateness of the application of accounting The Group provides share based incentive plans for Directors standards and the assumptions and judgements made by and employees.
During the year, there were certain new grants, management we performed the following procedures: schemes and arrangements made.
As detailed in note 37 to the examined the documents setting out the scheme rules and Consolidated Financial Statements, the total charge to the profit terms of the schemes to determine the appropriateness of and loss account for the year relating to share-based payments accounting policies made by management: was 4.4 million.
assessed the inputs included in the fair value calculations, The selection and application of accounting policies in using valuation specialists within the audit team to consider accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments as explained the reasonableness of assumptions made and the in note 4b to the financial statements is complex due to the methodology followed: bespoke nature of the arrangements in place.
Further they performed recalculations and sample-testing the source require significant judgement regarding the assumptions which documentation to check the accuracy of the calculations are applied in calculating the fair value of the options, provided: and particularly the value of shares at grant date as explained in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 54. considered the disclosures in the financial statements regarding the schemes, including the related disclosures in the Report of the Remuneration Committee and the related parties disclosure in note 39 to the financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 53 and 54.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
com 83 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Act 2006 financial statements that makes it probable that the economic In our opinion: decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the has been properly prepared in accordance with the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Companies Act 2006: and We determined materiality for the Group to be 1.0 million, the information given in the Strategic Report and the which is below 5% of pre-tax profit adjusted for IPO costs and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial the gains on business combinations due to their one-off nature statements are prepared is consistent with the financial in the current year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Committee all audit differences in excess of 20,000, as well Adequacy of explanations received and accounting as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted records reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when if, in our opinion: assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group been received from branches not visited by us: or level.
Based on this assessment we focused on the Groups UK the parent company financial statements are not in agreement and Danish operations, which were subject to a full audit for the with the accounting records and returns.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The remaining entities were subject to a limited scope audit of Directors remuneration specific account transactions and account balances, where the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration operations at those locations.
Our audit work was executed at Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 433,000 these matters.
At the parent entity level we performed audit procedures on material transactions and consolidation Corporate Governance Statement adjustments.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the As a consequence of the audit scope determined, we achieved companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate full scope coverage of 127.2 million out of 157.0 million of the Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from Groups revenue, 145.1 million out of 183.8 million of the our review.
Groups net assets and 67.2 million out of 57.4 million of the Groups profit before tax which excludes 9.8 million losses in limited scope entities.
In the current year the Group audit team visited the operations in Denmark, due to its financial significance to the Group, and met with the local management team in France, as a result of the increase in ownership in the year.
84 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Annual Report is: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting financial statements: or policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall the course of performing our audit: or presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all otherwise misleading.
the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial In particular, we are required to consider whether we have statements and to identify any information that is apparently identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the during the audit and the directors statement that they consider knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have Anna Marks FCA Senior statutory auditor not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Reading, United Kingdom As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 16 March 2015 Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
