FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT against the requirements of accounting standards, taking into INDEPENDENT AUDITORS account any business changes during the year.
We considered the estimates of fair value less costs to sell for Bozymchak and REPORT TO THE MEMBERS the East Region assets which the Group derived, as is common in the industry, on a discounted cash flow basis.
Taking into account OF KAZ MINERALS PLC ONLY the substantial headroom in the impairment analysis for the East Region assets and the Groups conclusion that an impairment Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit charge was required for the Bozymchak asset, we challenged the 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified appropriateness of key assumptions underlying the discounted We have audited the financial statements of KAZ Minerals PLC cash flows including commodity prices, production costs, for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 110 inflation, foreign exchange, production volume, discount rates, to 171.
In our opinion: life of assets and ore reserves based on historical production information and internal mine plans, together with market and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of other externally available information.
We used our valuation the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December specialists to assess the discount rates used.
We tested the 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: mathematical accuracy of the discounted cash flow models.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We evaluated the sensitivity of the outcomes by considering accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as downside scenarios against reasonably plausible changes to adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the key assumptions for the Bozymchak asset this primarily the Company financial statements have been properly prepared included modelling the impact of lower copper prices, higher in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in discount rates and further delays in commissioning: for the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and East Region assets this primarily included modelling the impact the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of lower copper prices.
We considered the existence of any the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards impairment triggers for the Groups major growth projects the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and considered the Groups internal review of progress on these projects.
Finally, we sought to rationalise the difference 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement between market capitalisation and the net asset value, having We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that regard to analyst valuations, which are typically also based on had the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit procedures net present values, and market commentary and we evaluated to address those risks and our findings from those procedures the appropriateness of the relevant disclosure.
in order that the Companys members as a body may better Our findings We found that the Group had assessed impairments understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
based on an overall balanced set of assumptions.
We found the Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken in the judgements taken in identifying any impairment triggers in the context of and solely for the purpose of our statutory audit Groups major growth projects to be balanced.
We found that opinion on the financial statements as a whole and consequently the Groups net asset value fell within the range of recent are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express discrete analyst valuations and that the difference between the market opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.
capitalisation and the Groups net asset value could be largely explained by market valuations generally discounting greater Impairment of assets perceived risk associated with the delivery of the Groups major Refer to page 118 note 3 Significant accounting judgements growth projects, which represent a substantial proportion of its and key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment of market capitalisation, and the volatility in mining companies share assets, pages 126 and 127 note 7 Impairment losses and page prices resulting from the fall in the spot copper price, which 83 Audit Committee report consensus forecasts suggest will recover in the medium term.
We The risk The Group recorded a significant impairment during found that the disclosures were proportionate in describing the the year on the Bozymchak asset in Kyrgyzstan which has been inherent degree of judgement involved and the potential impact written down to the Groups estimate of its recoverable amount.
on future periods of amendments to the key assumptions.
Having identified the fall in spot copper prices in the second Disclosure relating to going concern half of 2014 as a possible impairment trigger, the Group also Refer to page 115 note 2 Basis of preparation performed an impairment review on the East Region assets and a Going concern and page 83 Audit Committee report no impairment charge was found to be necessary.
Nevertheless, at 31 December 2014 the Groups net asset value still exceeded The risk The Groups cash flow projections over the near term its market capitalisation by $0.3 billion, which might imply that are characterised by capital expenditure on its major growth there are additional impairments that have not been recognised.
projects exceeding operating cash inflows.
The Group is therefore Our response In light of this, we assessed the Groups dependent on its existing cash resources and available borrowing impairment analysis for Bozymchak and the East Region facilities to fund this expenditure until the first of these projects, assets and assessed the potential for impairment of all cash Bozshakol, delivers positive cash flow.
The financial statements generating units within the Group irrespective of whether explain how the Directors have formed a judgement that the indicators of potential impairment had been identified.
Our going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the financial audit procedures included testing the control designed and statements of the Group.
The Directors have considered the applied by the Group to ensure that its impairment analysis Groups forecast cash flows over a 12 month period and was appropriately undertaken and reviewed.
We evaluated concluded that the range of possible outcomes they have the identification of cash generating units by the Group 106 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS considered in arriving at this judgement is not sufficient to give Our findings We did not identify any instances of improper rise to a material uncertainty regarding the Groups ability to continue payments or indications of bribery or corruption.
As this assessment involves consideration of Sale of Zhezkazgan and Central Region operations Disposal Assets future events, there is a risk that this judgement is inappropriate Refer to page 117 note 3 Significant accounting judgements and and that any uncertainty should have been assessed as material, key sources of estimation uncertainty Assets held for sale and in which case additional disclosures would have been required.
discontinued operations, pages 131 to 135 note 13 Disposal of Our response Our audit procedures included challenging the subsidiaries and investments and note 14 Discontinued operations appropriateness of key assumptions in the cash flow projections and assets held for sale and page 83 Audit Committee report including commodity prices, production costs, inflation, foreign exchange, production volume, committed capital expenditure The risk The Group completed the sale of a large part of and the availability of borrowing facilities based on historical its business comprising relatively mature mining and power production information, together with market and other operations primarily located in the Zhezkazgan and Central externally available information.
We tested the mathematical Regions of Kazakhstan on 31 October 2014.
The Disposal Assets accuracy of the projections.
We evaluated the sensitivity of the were classified as assets held for sale on 15 August 2014, the projected available cash by considering a downside scenario date that shareholder approval was granted.
The disposal against a set of reasonably plausible changes to the key assumptions.
involved the legal demerger of the ongoing businesses in the We recalculated the forecast covenant calculations.
We East Region of Kazakhstan from the Groups principal subsidiary considered the appropriateness of the relevant disclosure.
resulting in significant complexity in accounting for the disposal.
In addition, the Group financial statements include the results, Our findings We found the Groups judgement that there cash flows and net assets of the Disposal Assets for the period was no material uncertainty to be disclosed to be balanced.
up to the date of completion as a discontinued operation and so We found the disclosure on the use of the going concern it was necessary to secure appropriate access to the accounting basis of accounting in note 2 to the financial statements to records of and personnel who managed the Disposal Assets to be proportionate and that it included a balanced description allow the Group financial statements to be prepared and to of the risks relating to copper prices and the major growth allow us to complete our audit procedures.
projects which could impact the Group in the medium term.
Our response Our audit procedures included reading the Bribery and corruption sale and purchase agreement which governed the disposal and Refer to page 82 Audit Committee report evaluating whether the Groups methodology for separating the Disposal Assets from the retained business properly The risk The Groups business involves mining activities in reflected that agreement.
We critically assessed the accuracy Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
Transparency Internationals Corruption of the separation accounting.
We considered the key accounting Perceptions Index 2014 indicates that corruption risks are significant judgements made in determining the Disposal Assets results in both countries.
In addition, companies in the mining sector are for the 10 month period up to disposal, including the risks on inherently at higher risk from corruption due to the significant disability benefits and tax contingencies described below, and level of government regulation and their procurement profile.
tested the accuracy of the calculation of the loss on disposal.
We This could result in material losses to the Group and material assessed the disclosures, including whether it was appropriate improper payments not being appropriately disclosed.
to reflect the Disposal Assets as a discontinued operation and Our response Our audit procedures included considering we tested the accuracy of the allocation of the prior year results the Groups policies and procedures to prevent the risk of between continuing and discontinued operations.
We evaluated the tone set by the Board and by with management suitable arrangements to include in the sale senior management.
We evaluated the Groups policies and and purchase agreement for access to the accounting records of procedures and tested controls over the selection of suppliers and personnel who managed the Disposal Assets after the sale and the process over acknowledging acceptance of services completed.
Group audit team members visited the Kazakhstan equipment provided by suppliers.
We tested samples of component teams to oversee the planning and execution of payments made to suppliers and considered any transactions the audit of the Disposal Assets results.
which we considered unusual in the context of the Groups Our findings We found that the judgements made in applying operations.
We considered dealings with government agencies the relevant terms of the sale and purchase agreement to the with a view to identifying indicators of corruption.
Where we accounting for the separation of the businesses to be balanced.
identified individual transactions that at face value appeared We found no errors in the calculations of the loss on disposal.
as though they might have been outside the normal course of We found that the judgements made in determining the results business largely relating to the Disposal Assets, having enquired for the Disposal Assets were balanced.
We found that the about these transactions from senior operational management disclosure is ample, that the judgement that the Disposal Assets and executive management, we sought to corroborate met the criteria to be treated as a discontinued operation was explanations given by investigating the nature of the transactions balanced, that the judgements applied in the allocation of current and evaluating the business rationale for the transactions taking and prior period results between continuing and discontinued account of our experience in the mining and other industries in operations was balanced.
We were given the necessary access Kazakhstan.
We discussed our findings with senior operational to the accounting records and personnel of the Disposal Assets management, the Audit Committee and the Board and enquired to complete our audit procedures.
as to whether they had knowledge of any improper payments.
We involved our own forensic accounting specialists to assist in the design of our procedures and we remained alert to indications of the existence of bribery and corruption throughout our performance of other audit procedures.
com 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Disability benefits recorded by the Disposal Assets at the date of Kazakhstan tax legislation.
We involved our tax specialists in of disposal Kazakhstan and the UK to assist the Group audit team in making Refer to page 119 note 3 Significant accounting judgements this assessment.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups and key sources of estimation uncertainty Employee benefits disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
and pages 143 and 144 note 28 Employee benefits and Our findings We found the Groups judgements as to the page 83 Audit Committee report amounts recognised as provisions at the date of disposal to be mildly cautious resulting in a larger provision being recorded The risk The Disposal Assets have a number of employees at the date of disposal and a correspondingly lower loss on and former employees who have suffered workplace injuries or disposal than otherwise would have been the case.
occupational disease and are eligible to receive disability payments from the Group compensating the employees for their inability In reaching our audit opinion on the financial statements we to work, the disability they have suffered and to pay for certain took into account the findings that we describe above and those medical expenses.
The disability payments can be for a predefined for other, lower risk areas.
Overall, the findings from across the term or for life, depending on severity, and are often linked to the whole audit are that the financial statements use judgements and rate of salary increases in the business.
The provision is established estimates that are balanced and provide proportionate disclosure.
on an actuarial basis with key assumptions being interpretation of Compared with materiality and considering the qualitative aspects the relevant legislation in Kazakhstan, discount rate, mortality rates of the financial statements as a whole we have not modified our and future salary inflation.
Small changes to the assumptions and opinion on the financial statements.
estimates used to value the future disability payment obligation 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope can have a significant impact on the financial position and results of our audit of the Group.
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was Our response Our audit procedures included testing the set at $29 million determined with reference to a benchmark of controls designed and applied by the Group to provide itself Group total assets of $5,718 million, of which it represents 0.5%.
with assurance that the assumptions are updated and monitored We consider Group total assets to be the most appropriate regularly and that the final assumptions used in the calculation benchmark as it provides a stable measure following the sale of the have been approved.
We evaluated the process undertaken by Disposal Assets and the focus on the Groups major growth the Group to compile the employee data used for the valuation projects.
by testing samples to assess the accuracy and completeness of this data.
We challenged the key assumptions used in the calculation We report to the Audit Committee: i corrected identified of the future disability payment obligation, with input from our misstatements exceeding $29 million: ii uncorrected identified own actuarial specialists, including comparing key assumptions such misstatements exceeding $1.3 million for income statement items: as the discount, inflation and mortality rates against externally and iii other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on derived data.
We assessed the competency and objectivity of qualitative grounds.
the actuarial specialists engaged by the Group to assist in Audits for Group reporting purposes were carried out at five valuing the future disability payment obligation.
reporting components located in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan all of Our findings We found the Groups judgements as to the which are individually significant reporting components and eight assumptions and resulting estimates to be balanced overall.
reporting components in the United Kingdom of which one We identified no concerns over the Groups external actuarys represents an individually significant reporting component.
for Group reporting purposes covered: 98% of revenue: 100% of Tax contingencies including Excess Profits Tax recorded loss before taxation: and 99% of total assets.
by the Disposal Assets at the date of disposal The audits of components located in the United Kingdom were Refer to page 119 note 3 Significant accounting judgements performed by the Group audit team.
Detailed audit instructions and key sources of estimation uncertainty Income taxes, were sent to the KPMG member firm carrying out the audits of pages 153 and 154 note 34 Commitments and contingencies the reporting components in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
These b Kazakhstan taxation contingencies, pages 129 to 131 instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be note 12 Income taxes and page 83 Audit Committee report covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of The risk Tax legislation in Kazakhstan continues to evolve material misstatement detailed above and set out the information and can be open to different interpretations.
Changes to the required to be reported to the Group audit team.
The Group audit Kazakhstan tax legislations and new interpretations of existing team visited all the Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan component teams on legislation could impact the Disposal Assets financial results six separate occasions during the year for oversight of the planning for the 10 month period prior to disposal and the tax relating and performance of the audits in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, and to to the disposal.
Consequently, provisions for tax contingencies attend meetings with key management personnel in Kazakhstan.
require the Group to make judgements and estimates in relation The audits undertaken at the reporting components of the to tax risks, the outcomes of which can be less predictable than Group were very largely performed to local materiality levels as in many other jurisdictions.
the majority of components also prepare local statutory accounts.
Our response Our audit procedures included seeking to The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key understand the current status of the tax claims and reviewing reporting components were all performed to materiality levels set recent correspondence with the tax authorities to challenge the by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality levels Groups view on the quantification, provisioning and disclosure were set individually for each component and ranged from of tax claims.
We challenged the judgements inherent in the $1.5 million to $26 million.
provisioning of tax claims made by the Group and the basis of accounting for provisions or refunds based on our knowledge 108 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Scope and responsibilities Companies Act 2006 is unmodified As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement In our opinion: set out on page 103, the Directors are responsible for the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that audited has been properly prepared in accordance with they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an the Companies Act 2006: audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and Report for the financial year for which the financial statements is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk information given in the Corporate Governance Statement auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as set out on pages 72 to 103 with respect to internal control if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and processes and to share capital structures is consistent with the the basis of our opinions.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters Jimmy Daboo on which we are required to report by exception Senior Statutory Auditor Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have Statutory Auditor identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial Chartered Accountants statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise 15 Canada Square misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: London, E14 5GL we have identified material inconsistencies between the 25 February 2015 knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 102, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 72 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
