Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of KCOM Group PLC Report on the financial statements What an audit of financial In establishing the overall approach to the Our opinion statementsinvolves Group audit, we determined the type of work In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with that needed to be performed by us at each International Standards on Auditing UK trading entity to be able to conclude whether I the financial statements, defined below, andIreland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been give a true and fair view of the state of involves obtaining evidence about the amounts obtained as a basis for our opinion on the theGroups and of the Parent Companys and disclosures in the financial statements Group financial statements as a whole.
We affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the sufficient to give reasonable assurance that determined that each of the trading entities Groups profit and of the Groups and thefinancial statements are free from material required an audit of their complete financial Parent Companys cash flows for the year misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This together with the audit of the then ended: This includes an assessment of: Groups centralised PLC function, including the consolidation, gave us the evidence we needed I the Group financial statements have I whether the accounting policies are for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
beenproperly prepared in accordance with appropriate to the Groups and Parent International Financial Reporting Standards Companys circumstances and have Areas of particular audit focus IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: beenconsistently applied and In preparing the financial statements, I the Parent Company financial statements adequatelydisclosed: theDirectors made a number of subjective have been properly prepared in accordance judgements, for example in respect of I the reasonableness of significant with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union significant accounting estimates that involved accounting estimates made by and as applied in accordance with the making assumptions and considering future theDirectors: and provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and events that are inherently uncertain.
We I the overall presentation of the primarily focused our work in these areas I the financial statements have been financialstatements.
byassessing the Directors judgements prepared in accordance with the againstavailable evidence, forming our own requirements of the Companies Act 2006 In addition, we read all the financial and judgements, and evaluating the disclosures and, as regards the Group financial non-financial information in the Annual Report inthe financial statements.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify This opinion is to be read in the context of what In our audit, we tested and examined any information that is apparently materially we say in the remainder of this report.
information, using sampling and other auditing incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent techniques, to the extent we considered with, the knowledge acquired by us in the What we have audited necessary to provide a reasonable basis for course of performing the audit.
If we become The Group financial statements and Parent usto draw conclusions.
We obtained audit aware of any apparent material misstatements Company financial statements the financial evidence through testing the effectiveness or inconsistencies we consider the implications statements, which are prepared by KCOM ofcontrols, substantive procedures or a for our report.
Group PLC, comprise: combination of both.
Overview of our audit approach I the Consolidated and Parent Company In summary, we considered the following areas Materiality balance sheets as at 31 March 2014: to be those that required particular focus in the We set certain thresholds for materiality.
This is not a complete list of all I the Consolidated income statement and helped us to determine the nature, timing and risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
statement of comprehensive income for extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate We discussed these areas of focus with the theyear then ended: the effect of misstatements, both individually Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters and on the financial statements as a whole.
I the Consolidated and Parent Company that they considered to be significant issues statements of changes in equity and inrelation to the financial statements is set Based on our professional judgement, we cashflow statements for the year then outon page 39. determined materiality for the Group financial ended: and statements as a whole to be 2.5 million, being I the notes to the financial statements, five per cent of the Groups consolidated profit whichinclude a summary of significant before tax.
We have had regard to profit before accounting policies and other tax as we believe this is the most appropriate .
The financial reporting framework that has We agreed with the Audit Committee that we been applied in their preparation comprises would report to them misstatements identified applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the during our audit above 0.1 million as well as European Union and, as regards the Parent misstatements below that amount that, in our Company, as applied in accordance with the view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of the scope of our audit Certain disclosures required by the financial The Group is structured along two business reporting framework have been presented segments, being KC and Kcom.
Within these elsewhere in the Annual report and accounts segments are five individual trading subsidiary the Annual Report, rather than in the notes entities the trading entities.
Together to the financial statements.
These are withthe Groups centralised PLC function, cross-referenced from the financial statements thesetrading entities form the consolidated and are identified as audited.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of KCOM Group PLC Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they We focused on this area due to the size of goodwill and weredrawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets, and otherintangible asset balances and because the directors testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged: assessment of the carrying value of the Groups cash I the Directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing generating units CGUs involves subjective judgements them to historical results and long-term growth forecasts for the economy: and about the future results of the Kcom, Smart421 and Eclipse I the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company and comparable parts of the business.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, being projected revenue and EBITDA growth in the respective CGUs.
Having ascertained theextent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and other intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement inthose key assumptions arising and whether there was adequate disclosure of such sensitivities in the financial statements.
We considered and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions including the Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities discount rate and inflation rate by comparing the Directors assumptions to benchmark We focused on this area because the Group operates two assumptions and evaluating the sensitivity of the valuation of the liabilities to movements defined benefit pension scheme arrangements and the inthose assumptions, both individually and in aggregate.
valuation of each schemes liability is sensitive to a number ofjudgemental assumptions made by the directors, in We also assessed whether the methods used to determine the key assumptions were particular the discount rate andinflation rate.
A small change in these assumptions can have a material impact on the financial statements.
Capitalisation of internal projectcosts We tested capitalised salary costs to supporting payroll records to agree the existence We focused on this area because the Group is investing ofindividuals, hours charged and to evaluate whether the costs were directly attributable significantly in its back office systems and core IT applications.
In the year this has resulted in the capitalisation of 4.6 million The Directors made an assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value of the of internal salary costs.
There is a degree of judgement involved capitalised asset.
The Directors assessed and compared actual spend to date to budgeted in determining the element of internal salaries that is directly spend: and total forecast spend to the forecast cost savings and payback period, compared attributable to this project and as such should be capitalised.
to the carrying value and estimated useful life of the asset created.
We evaluated the Directors assessment by testing costs capitalised to date by agreeing to supporting There is also judgement involved in assessing the recoverability evidence and assessing these costs against the original Board approved business case.
of the carrying value of the asset created from the project.
Accounting for judgements in significant contracts We challenged the judgements made by management in the calculation of certain We focused on this area because a number of significant contractual revenues, including whether the Group was entitled to, and appropriately customer and supplier contracts exist within the Group.
recognised revenue in line with their contractual obligations and revenue recognition policy.
We also tested the related cost recognition and evaluated the consistency of this against the The accounting for each of these contracts requires revenue recognition policy and the completeness of costs recognised.
judgement in terms of both the timing and amount ofbothrevenue and cost recognition.
Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the operating effectiveness of internal ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in controls, relating to calls and rentals, designed to verify whether revenue transactions had revenuerecognition because of the pressure management occurred and were entitled to be recognised in the financial statements We also tested the may feel to achieve the planned results.
reconciliations between the revenue systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
Our testing of contractual revenue streams to assess whether a service had been provided We focused on the risk that revenue may have been or a product sale had occurred focused on understanding whether cash had been received recognised in all revenue streams for transactions that and agreeing the timing of services performed to supporting documentation including hadnotoccurred.
customer contracts and, where relevant, project information including timesheets.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to obtain evidence for unusual orirregular items.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested manual journal entries to determine that the adjustments made were appropriate.
KCOM Group PLC 62 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Financial statements Report on the financial statements Directors remuneration Responsibilities for the financial continued Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required statements and the audit Going concern to report to you if, in our opinion, certain Our responsibilities and those of the directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to disclosures of directors remuneration specified As explained more fully in the Directors review the Directors statement, set out on by law have not been made.
We have no responsibilities statement set out on page 43, page 43, in relation to going concern.
We have exceptions to report arising from this the directors are responsible for the preparation nothing to report having performed our review.
of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they As noted in the directors statement, the Corporate Governance Statement give a true and fair view.
directors have concluded that it is appropriate Under the Listing Rules we are required to review to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Our responsibility is to audit and express an financial statements using the going concern relating to the Parent Companys compliance opinion on the Group and Parent Company basis of accounting.
The going concern basis with nine provisions of the UK Corporate financial statements in accordance with applicable presumes that the Group and Parent Company Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards have adequate resources to remain in operation, to report having performed our review.
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices and that the directors intend them todo so, for Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
at least one year from the date the financial On page 43 of the Annual Report, as required statements were signed.
As part of our audit we by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state This report, including the opinions, has been have concluded that the directors use of the that they consider the Annual Report taken as a prepared for and only for the Companys going concern basis is appropriate.
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable members as a body in accordance with Chapter and provides the information necessary for 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for However, because not all future events or conditions members to assess the Groups performance, no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these can be predicted, these statements are not a business model and strategy.
On page 39, opinions, accept or assume responsibility for guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent asrequired by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit any other purpose or to any other person to Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Committee has set out the significant issues whom this report is shown or into whose hands that it considered in relation to the financial it may come save where expressly agreed by statements, and how they were addressed.
our prior consent in writing.
Opinions on other matters prescribed Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required bythe Companies Act 2006 toreport to you if, in our opinion: In our opinion: I the statement given by the directors is I the information given in the Strategic Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor materially inconsistent with our knowledge report and the Directors report for the for and on behalf of of the Group acquired in the course of financial year for which the financial  LLP performing our audit: or statements are prepared is consistent Chartered Accountants and Statutory withthe financial statements: and I the section of the Annual Report describing Auditors the work of the Audit Committee does not Leeds I the part of the Directors Remuneration appropriately address matters communicated 18 June 2014 report to be audited has been properly by us to the Audit Committee.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matters on which we are required toreport by exception Other information in the Annual Report Adequacy of accounting records and Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required information and explanations received toreport to you if, in our opinion, information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required inthe Annual Report is: to report to you if, in our opinion: I materially inconsistent with the information I we have not received all the information in the audited financial statements: or and explanations we require for our audit: or I apparently materially incorrect based on, or I adequate accounting records have not been materially inconsistent with, our knowledge kept by the Parent Company, or returns of the Group and Parent Company acquired adequate for our audit have not been in the course of performing our audit: or received from branches not visited by us: or I is otherwise misleading.
I the Parent Company financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising from and the part of the Directors Remuneration this responsibility.
report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 63
