Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingfisher plc Opinion on financial statements of Kingfisher plc The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is In our opinion: applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 1 February 2014 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks Going concern then ended: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statement on page 71 that the Group is a going concern.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting We confirm that: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have concluded that the directors use of the going the Parent Company financial statements have been properly concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements is appropriate.
Accepted Accounting Practice: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may the financial statements have been prepared in accordance cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, going concern.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be IAS Regulation.
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups The financial statements comprise the consolidated income ability to continue as a going concern.
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive Our assessment of risks of material misstatement income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, The assessed risks of material misstatement described below the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of 38 for the Group and 1 to 15 for the Parent Company financial the engagement team: statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Subject Nature of risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventories Assessing net realisable value is an area We focused on the valuation of year end of significant judgement, in particular with inventory levels, including challenging regards to the estimation of provisions for judgements taken regarding obsolescence.
Inventory provisioning has been assessed using historic stock performance and compared to the Group provision recognised.
Our procedures included assessing the adequacy of, and movements in, inventory provisions held by recalculating a sample of items included within the provision to ensure appropriate basis of valuation.
Supplier rebates Assessing the timing of recognition of rebate We reviewed agreements with suppliers income earned from suppliers, including and adherence to terms to assess whether adherence to contractual terms, is an area sufficient evidence to support the recognition of complexity.
The subsequent recoverability of rebate income exists.
We circularised a of amounts due from suppliers is also an sample of suppliers where the outstanding area of management judgement.
balances were significant at the year end in order to assess recoverability.
Annual Report and Account 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 72 72 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Subject Nature of risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk As a result of the diverse property For leasehold property, we focused our work Property portfolio across the Group, there are several on the identification of complex or unusual technically complex or judgemental aspects lease contracts to assess whether they were of property accounting and accounting for appropriately accounted for under IAS 17: leases across the Group, including: Leases.
We also performed procedures to identify leases which could be considered The assessment of carrying values of onerous for example, we reviewed the freehold stores: properties currently under lease, and identified those which may be vacant or underutilised, accounting for store closure costs: and or where properties are sublet whether the other property related provisions, estimated rental income leads to an including onerous leases.
For freehold properties, we reviewed managements assessment of carrying values, challenged key assumptions used in, and performed sensitivity analysis on, the impairment models where indicators of impairment were identified.
We considered the assumptions used by management in estimating store closure costs and challenged the timing of recognition of associated provisions.
Goodwill and intangible assets Determining the appropriate carrying We reviewed the assumptions used in the value of goodwill and intangible assets impairment model for goodwill and intangible requires management to make significant assets, including comparison of the input estimates.
Cash generating units are assumptions to externally and internally reviewed for impairment using a value in derived data, as well as forming our own use model, as described in note 12 to the assessments, and challenged the key inputs financial statements.
used, including specifically the operating cash flow projections, discount rates, and long-term growth rates.
We considered the sensitivity of the model to changes in key assumptions.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the assumptions.
Taxation Due to the estimation uncertainty as referred We considered all significant taxation to in the Critical Accounting Estimates and exposures across the Group, including Judgements in the Consolidated Financial challenging the estimates and judgements Statements at page 88 in respect of made by management when calculating the settlements with tax authorities around the income tax payable in each territory and the world, assessing the Groups exposure to associated provisions held.
significant tax risks and the level of provisions We reviewed correspondence with taxation recognised is a judgemental area.
authorities in significant locations, as well as reviewing the support or opinions received from external counsel and other advisers where management has relied on such opinions to make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
The Audit Committees consideration of risks is set out on page 43.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
com 73 73 Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Kingfisher Plc continued Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Act 2006 financial statements that makes it probable that the economic In our opinion: decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the has been properly prepared in accordance with the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Companies Act 2006: and We determined materiality for the Group to be 35 million, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors which is below 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit, and below 1% of Report for the financial year for which the financial statements equity.
We use adjusted pre-tax profit to exclude the effect of are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
volatility due to exceptional items from our determination.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting them all audit differences in excess of 700,000, as well as records differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit you if, in our opinion: Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on all significant adequate accounting records have not been kept by the trading entities and the Group head office, and included B&Q Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have UK, Castorama France, Brico Dpt France, Castorama Poland, not been received from branches not visited by us: or Castorama Russia, B&Q China, Screwfix, Brico Dpt Spain, the Parent Company financial statements are not in Bricostore Romania and the Kotas joint venture.
These locations agreement with the accounting records and returns.
represent the principal business units and account for 99% of the Groups revenue, 98% of the Groups profit before tax after We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
taking into account the allocation of central sourcing costs, and 97% of the Groups net assets.
The locations in scope were Directors remuneration selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report work to address the risks of material misstatement identified if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting lower than Group materiality.
The entities which are out of our records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from scope are primarily individually insignificant cost entities, the these matters.
Hornbach investment and other smaller operations.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Statutory Auditor visits locations considered the most significant each year.
For the remaining locations where Group audit work is Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
performed but no visit is carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report has discussed and challenged the key areas of judgement with Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we the lead audit partner of the relevant component in the current are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the year, and a senior member of the Group engagement team has Annual Report is: visited the location.
We also held regional planning briefings, attended by the component auditors from each of the eleven materially inconsistent with the information in the audited locations discussed above, at which we discussed developments financial statements: or in the Group relevant to our audit, including risk assessment and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially audit procedures to respond to the risks identified.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Annual Report and Account 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 74 74 Strategic Report Governance Accounts In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Panos Kakoullis Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 24 March 2014 www.
