72 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF L LADBROKES PLC ADBROKES PLC What we have audited REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ladbrokes plcs financial statements comprise: Our opinion the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: In our opinion: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement Ladbrokes plcs Consolidated financial statements and Company of comprehensive income for the year then ended: financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then the year then ended: ended: and the Consolidated financial statements have been properly the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting the notes to the Consolidated and Company financial statements, Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: which include a summary of significant accounting policies and the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in other explanatory information.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Practice: and Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than the Consolidated and Company financial statements have been in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated financial statements, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
preparation of the Consolidated financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview MATERIALITY Overall Group materiality: 5.6 million which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We conducted full scope audit work at four reporting units UK Retail, UK Digital and two reporting units included within Corporate costs.
Specific audit procedures on revenue and receivables were performed on High Rollers.
AUDIT SCOPE Our audit scope addressed over 80% of the Groups revenue and profit before tax and exceptional items.
Impairment assessments for: goodwill and Company investments in subsidiaries: retail licences and property, plant and equipment PPE : and software assets.
AREAS OF Compliance with laws and regulations given the developing nature of the digital gaming sector.
FOCUS Accounting for the acquisition of Betstar and the fair value of the contingent consideration relating to the business combinations made in 2013 Playtech, Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd.
The provision for uncertain tax positions and the recognition and disclosure of tax losses.
The nature and presentation of exceptional items.
73 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 72 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LADBROKES PLC The scope of our audit and our areas of focus What we have audited REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Ladbrokes plcs financial statements comprise: Our opinion We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: In our opinion: looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement Ladbrokes plcs Consolidated financial statements and Company assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management of comprehensive income for the year then ended: override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: misstatement due to fraud.
view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified the year then ended: ended: and as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an the Consolidated financial statements have been properly the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
the notes to the Consolidated and Company financial statements, Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: which include a summary of significant accounting policies and Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in other explanatory information.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Impairment assessments for: goodwill and Company We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts supporting Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Practice: and investments in subsidiaries: retail licences and property, the impairment assessments for goodwill, retail licence intangibles, Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than plant and equipment PPE : and software assets PPE and Company investment in subsidiaries.
the Consolidated and Company financial statements have been in the notes to the financial statements.
We compared the forecasts with the latest Board approved Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, note 4 Significant Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated financial statements, accounting policies, note 14 Impairment testing of goodwill and budgets.
We also compared the actual results for 2014 against The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
forecast to verify their reliability.
We found that actual performance indefinite life intangible assets and note 6 of the Company financial preparation of the Consolidated financial statements is applicable statements Fixed asset investments was lower than originally forecast.
We obtained evidence to support law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial the directors explanations for this and evaluated the potential reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Retail licence intangible assets and PPE impact of these variances on forecasts for 2015 and subsequent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom The Group has retail licence intangibles of 447.1 million, primarily years.
We determined that through a combination of the directors Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted in UK Retail, which have an indefinite life.
An impairment assessment explanations and external sports results data that these were Accounting Practice.
is performed on an annual basis to assess whether the carrying reasonable and that the forecasts to be appropriate for the value of these assets and the related PPE exceed the recoverable purposes of the impairment assessments.
Following this assessment, the directors determined Overview We evaluated the appropriateness of the key assumptions in the that an impairment charge of 20.8 million was required.
forecasts in particular the short term and long term growth rates Our focus is on the sufficiency of this impairment charge, we and the impact of regulatory changes to Machine Games Duty and focused on UK Retail given the industry regulatory developments player protection measures.
in Machine Games Duty and in player protection measures.
This meant considering the impact of these developments on future cash We verified that forecasts for Digital, UK Retail and European Retail appropriately reflected these items in each business.
flow forecasts and whether the directors have made appropriate MATERIALITY Overall Group materiality: 5.6 million which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional assumptions for these in their cash flow models, or if any additional items.
We challenged the discount rates applied by comparing to the cost impairment charge is needed.
We found this to be consistent and in line We conducted full scope audit work at four reporting units UK Retail, UK Digital and two reporting with our expectations.
Software assets units included within Corporate costs.
The Group has software assets of 96.6 million.
As a result of the Retail licence impairment assessment Specific audit procedures on revenue and receivables were performed on High Rollers.
impairment assessment, the directors determined that an AUDIT SCOPE We obtained evidence that corroborated the directors grouping impairment charge of 23.1 million was required reflecting the Our audit scope addressed over 80% of the Groups revenue and profit before tax and exceptional for those shops that they had determined do not operate items.
decision to decommission a platform for desktop sportsbook.
As with the retail licences and related PPE, our focus is on the Impairment assessments for: goodwill and Company investments in subsidiaries: retail licences and Where we considered managements assumptions to be less sufficiency of this impairment charge.
property, plant and equipment PPE : and software assets.
conservative than we would expect we performed sensitivity AREAS OF Compliance with laws and regulations given the developing nature of the digital gaming sector.
analysis to satisfy ourselves that any difference would not be Goodwill and Company investment in subsidiaries FOCUS The Group has goodwill of 159.2 million including amounts relating material.
Accounting for the acquisition of Betstar and the fair value of the contingent consideration relating to the business combinations of Playtech 34.9 million, Betdaq to the business combinations made in 2013 Playtech, Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd. Software assets 31.5 million and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd 23.0 million.
We tested the appropriateness of costs capitalised in the year, and An annual impairment assessment is performed by the directors challenged the continued utilisation for a sample of assets and The nature and presentation of exceptional items.
to determine whether the value of these investments is less than considered the support for asset impairment charges.
We did not the carrying value and, as such, goodwill is impaired.
identify any further assets for impairment.
The Company Ladbrokes plc has investments in subsidiaries Goodwill and investment in subsidiaries of 3,883.7 million, which when considered net of intercompany We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions to creditors totals 2,113.8 million.
An impairment charge of 92.4 ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either million was recorded at 31 December 2014 in respect of certain individually or collectively would be required for an additional investments in subsidiaries for which the carrying amount exceeded impairment change.
We were satisfied that a material change in the recoverable amount.
Our focus is on the sufficiency of this those assumptions would be required to trigger an impairment.
74 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF L LADBROKES PLC ADBROKES PLC CONTINUED CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Compliance with laws and regulations given the developing We evaluated the controls and risk management process in nature of the digital gaming sector operation in respect of compliance with digital licencing regulations covering player registration controls customer deposits and The international legal and licencing framework for digital gaming withdrawals.
Regulations are developing and this evolving environment makes compliance an increasingly complex area.
We assessed how the Group monitors legal and regulatory developments and their assessment of the potential impact on Given the potential for litigation and licence withdrawal, the risk of the business.
non-compliance with digital gaming laws and licence regulations could give rise to material fines, penalties, legal claims or market We read the summary of litigation matters provided by management exclusion.
and discussed each of the material cases noted in the report to determine the Groups assessment of the likelihood and magnitude of any liability that may arise.
We also read, where required, external legal or regulatory advice sought by the Group.
No significant issues were noted from our work.
Accounting for the acquisition of Betstar and the fair value We obtained the directors assessment of the identification and of the contingent consideration relating to the business valuation of the intangible assets acquired as part of the Betstar combinations made in 2013 Playtech, Betdaq and Gaming acquisition.
We considered whether there were any other identifiable Investments Pty Ltd assets acquired by using our knowledge of the industry and reviewing the terms of the acquisition and did not identify any further Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, note 4 Significant material identifiable assets.
Accounting Policies, notes 24 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures and 33 Business combinations We performed sensitivity analysis over key drivers within the cash flow forecasts, including amounts staked and churn rates as well During the year, the Group acquired the Betstar business in as the key assumptions around discount rates.
The accounting for the Betstar business combination the likelihood of such movement in these key assumptions arising resulted in the recognition of 3.2 million of customer relationships in assessing the appropriateness of the overall valuations.
No and brand of 1.4 million and goodwill of 8.0 million which are significant issues were noted from our work.
collectively material and subject to judgement regarding the identification and recognition of intangible assets, namely customer For the contingent consideration on Playtech and Betdaq, we relationships and the brand name.
We assessed the appropriateness of the models by testing the integrity, comparing the data in the The Group is required to fair value the contingent consideration models to the relevant agreements and testing key inputs to third associated with the business combinations of Playtech and Betdaq party sources and publically available information where appropriate.
made in 2013 at each balance sheet date.
At 31 December 2014 The key inputs we focused on were the forecast results for each the total contingent consideration was 32.1 million with a fair value business, the probability range associated with future EBITDA movement of 3.1 million recognised in the income statement for forecasts and the discount rate.
We compared the forecast results with the latest Board approved This is determined through a cash flow forecast model.
The budgets and considered the results of the testing performed on the inputs to these models are subject to judgement regarding the same forecasts for the impairment area of focus above.
determination of cashflow forecasts, discount rates and the Ladbrokes multiple.
The nature of the valuation of the contingent consideration results in a number of scenarios where a reasonably probable change in The contingent consideration associated with Gaming Investments the assumptions may materially impact the fair value.
We therefore Pty Ltd has been settled during the year and therefore the fair value considered directors proposed disclosures and found them to be equals the agreed settlement of 18.4 million.
reasonable in light of our procedures.
The provision for uncertain tax positions and the We assessed the key judgements with respect to open positions recognition and disclosure of tax losses and settlements and read correspondence with the taxation authorities.
We obtained evidence to support the provisions and Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, note 4 Significant consider these to reflect the directors best estimates.
Accounting Policies and note 10 Income tax expense We assessed whether there was evidence to determine that The Group has unresolved tax positions in the UK, the valuation additional deferred tax assets should be recognised or disclosed, of which is a judgemental area.
taking into account forecast profits and the Boards approved tax strategy.
There is significant judgement applied in determining the Groups deferred tax assets relating to tax losses, in terms of both We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements recognition and disclosure.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 75 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Nature and presentation of exceptional items We assessed the appropriateness and application of the Groups Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, note 2 Basis of accounting policy in respect of those items classified as exceptional Preparation and note 6 Exceptional items in nature.
The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed We tested the presentation of the exceptional items in the financial as exceptional.
The most significant of these exceptional charges statements by assessing whether the classification was in line with are: the Groups accounting policy on exceptional items set out in note 2 of the financial statements and whether, in our view it was Impairment loss of 44.5 million: reasonable for these items to be separately disclosed as Loss on shop closures of 30.7 million: and exceptional.
We found that the Groups accounting policy had been followed.
A provision for indirect tax liabilities of 5.7 million Total exceptional items amounted to 74.5 million.
We focused on this area because exceptional items are not defined by IFRSs and it therefore requires judgement regarding their size and nature by the directors to identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is important to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed the financial statements as a whole as follows: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Overall Group materiality 5.6 million statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional industry in which the Group operates.
items Rationale for We applied this benchmark because, in The Group is structured into five reportable segments being UK benchmark applied our view, this is the metric against which Retail, European Retail, Digital, Core Telephone Betting and High the performance of the Group is most Rollers.
The Consolidated financial statements are a consolidation commonly measured and because in our of reporting units that make up the five reportable segments and view this is the most relevant measure of Corporate costs.
We identified four of the Groups reporting units UK Retail, UK Digital We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them and two reporting units included within Corporate costs to require an misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3 million as well audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted characteristics.
In addition we performed specified procedures on reporting for qualitative reasons.
revenue and receivables in the High Rollers reportable segment due to risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors All work was undertaken by the Group engagement team.
The statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern.
We have Group consolidation and a number of complex areas were audited nothing to report having performed our review.
This included tax, share based payments and pensions.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded Our audit scope addressed over 80% of the Groups revenue and that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the profit before tax and exceptional items.
going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis Materiality presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent going concern basis is appropriate.
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, However, because not all future events or conditions can be both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
1 76 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LADBROKES PLC CONTINUED Directors remuneration OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Consistency of other information In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Companies Act 2006 opinions audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Other Companies Act 2006 reporting report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from set out on page 44 with respect to internal control and risk this responsibility.
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, ISAs UK & Ireland reporting in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising opinion: from this responsibility.
Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the report arising from this materially inconsistent with the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys responsibility.
information in the audited financial compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance statements: or Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT inconsistent with, our knowledge Our responsibilities and those of the directors of the Group and Company As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities acquired in the course of set out on page 71, the directors are responsible for the preparation performing our audit: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors We have no exceptions to Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial on page 71, in accordance with report arising from this statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & provision C. 1.1 of the Code, that responsibility.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing they consider the Annual Report Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the information necessary for for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter members to assess the Groups 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
performance, business model and We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility strategy is materially inconsistent with for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is our knowledge of the Group shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly acquired in the course of performing agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The section of the Annual Report on We have no exceptions to What an audit of financial statements involves page 47, as required by provision report arising from this An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the responsibility.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable work of the Audit Committee does assurance that the financial statements are free from material not appropriately address matters misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an communicated by us to the Audit assessment of: Committee.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Adequacy of accounting records and information and applied and adequately disclosed: explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by in our opinion: the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our adequate accounting records have not been kept by the own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been statements.
received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 2 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LADBROKES PLC CONTINUED We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stuart Newman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 February 2015
