Laird PLC 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Laird PLC Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs asat 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended.
The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group statement of financial position and Parent Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 100, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and response to those risks The table on the next page shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team, together with our audit response to the risk.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report continued Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk Revenue recognition across the Groups diverse global At each of the Groups locations in scope for revenue, we operations, including the risk of management override as performed the following audit procedures around revenue described on page 112 in accounting policies and financial recognition.
We walked through the controls designed by the Group and The Groups pattern of revenue is historically weighted towards operated by the location relating to the recognition of revenue.
the second half of the year, with a significant proportion of We performed detailed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue revenue being recognised commensurate with technology transactions around the year-end date, to corroborate that launches by key customers.
Management reward and incentive transactions made around the year-end period were recognised schemes based on achieving profit targets may also place appropriately.
Detailed analytical review procedures were performed to identify Sales arrangements are generally straightforward, requiring significant fluctuations and trends.
Where items were noted which minimal judgement to be exercised.
An area of particular focus were not in line with our expectations, we obtained explanations is the risk that revenue may be inaccurately recorded and or and evidence from management and assessed whether, in our recorded in the incorrect period, including the potential that professional judgement, such items were appropriate.
management may override controls to intentionally misstate the nature and timing of revenue transactions.
Other audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management override of controls included journal entry testing, applying particular focus to the timing of revenue transactions.
Tax transfer pricing exposure relating to the Groups key We challenged managements assumptions in relation to the operational locations as described on page 60 of the Report Groups material tax positions around the world, in particular the of the Audit Committee and page 114 in accounting policies and status of transfer pricing agreements between key locations and financial disclosures.
the accounting implications for the financial statements.
This included corroborating movements in uncertain tax positions.
Our The global nature of the Groups operations and the presence audit procedures also included an assessment of the disclosures in ofcross-border transactions present a complex tax environment the Annual Report and Accounts.
and the potential for misstatement increases as a result.
As a consequence, provisions for ongoing matters in respect of For the remaining tax exposures we critically assessed through uncertain tax positions attract a high level of judgement and inquiry, corroboration and consultation with EY tax experts, the due to the potential effect on the tax rate we recognise a risk level of provision in relation to the likelihood of tax payable in each inthisarea.
jurisdiction where material items remain unsettled.
Subsequently we also considered the consequential tax implications of As a result of the settlement of certain transfer pricing exposures, agreement with the relevant authorities.
the Group now has certainty over the majority of its taxable losses and as a consequence has considered deferred tax asset In relation to the deferred tax asset we obtained and verified recognition in relation to these losses.
In doing so it is necessary calculations prepared by management supporting the to exercise judgement in terms of sufficiency of future taxable quantum of the losses and the quantum of taxable temporary profits and the amount of taxable temporary differences of the differences arising in the same jurisdiction.
We considered the appropriate type in the same jurisdiction.
appropriateness of the deferred tax liabilities supporting the recognition of the deferred tax asset.
In addition, we considered whether any additional deferred tax assets could be recognised based on future taxable profits.
Valuation of Model Solution put and call options as described As part of our audit procedures we analysed the shareholder on page 61 of the Report of the Audit Committee and pages 115 agreement and assessed managements determination of control and 116 in accounting policies and financial disclosures.
The Group completed its acquisition of 51% of Model Solution, We tested the reasonableness of the estimates of the purchase a South Korean entity, in April 2014.
Management considers the prices of the put and call options attached to the non-controlling Group to hold control over Model Solution and consolidates that interest, engaging EY valuations specialists to challenge the entitys results, recognising a non-controlling interest for the assumptions used by management and external specialists in the proportion not owned by Laird.
determination of the corresponding liability and asset values as disclosed in the financial statements.
The shareholder agreement includes both put and call options over the share capital not currently owned by Laird.
The estimated We assessed the valuation methodology used by management, amounts of the purchase price of the put and call options have with specific regard to the future growth projections of the Model been recognised as a financial liability and a financial asset on the Solution business, as determined by management.
This included Group balance sheet, respectively, with no right of set-off.
an examination of forecasts along with historical performance of the business.
For the put option, EY valuations experts assessed The purchase price estimate for the call option exercisable the suitability of the discount rate inherent in the calculation of the between 2017 and 2019 is based on an option pricing model, with liability, confirming that management used an appropriate rate input from an external specialist, and considers a range of EBITDA which reflects the risk related to the cash flows.
The purchase price estimate for the put option is based on expected EBITDA at the options exercise We considered the accounting treatment of the put and call date in 2019, to which a discount rate has been applied.
options under IFRS 10, IAS 32 and IAS 39 criteria to assess whether the resulting estimates were acceptable.
There are inherent complexities associated with valuing both options and there is judgement involved in predicting growth and We performed procedures to validate that the base data used in cash flows for the years up to the exercise dates.
the models agreed to the underlying books and records.
Laird PLC 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible We examined managements methodology used to assess the assets as described on page 60 of the Report of the Audit carrying value of the goodwill balances attached to the Groups Committee and page 114 in accounting policies and financial two cash-generating units, Laird Performance Materials LPM disclosures.
and Laird Wireless Systems LWS, in accordance with IAS 36.
Management performs an annual impairment review to assess the In particular, we challenged the forecast cash flows for each cashrecoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, which are spread generating unit and assessed these against historical performance across a broad range of geographies and economies.
Together with EY valuations specialists we asset values are dependent on businesses acquired achieving a assessed the appropriateness of key assumptions, notably the sufficient level of profitability in the future.
This included an assessment of the specific inputs to the discount rate, including the risk-free rate, equity risk premium Several assumptions are required by management in order to and beta, along with gearing and cost of debt.
Such inputs were test for impairment, namely forecast future cash flows, which are benchmarked either against risk rates in specific international judgemental and subject to inherent uncertainties.
The discount markets in which the Group operates, or equivalent data for rate set by management and applied to the future cash flows is peer companies.
Procedures also included a comparison of the also subject to inherent complexities.
weighted average cost of capital to estimates by brokers for the Groups peer group of companies.
We performed a reconciliation of the Groups recoverable amount to its market capitalisation.
We also performed sensitivity analyses by stressing key assumptions in the impairment models to assess the level of headroom in place.
In particular, we applied sensitivity analyses to growth rates and the discount rate for both cashgenerating units.
Classification of exceptional items as described on page 61 of We carried out audit procedures on the Groups material the Report of the Audit Committee and page 115 in accounting exceptional items and challenged managements rationale policies and financial disclosures.
to check that these items met the definition of exceptional as specified by IFRS criteria and FRC-issued guidance, as well as Exceptional items mainly comprise amounts relating to the reviewing the related exceptional items disclosures.
scalingdown of Nextremes operations, offset by acquisitionrelated costs and one-off charges in respect of material litigation Specifically, we performed the following audit procedures in against the Group.
respect of particular exceptional items: The classification of exceptional items is subject to judgement To corroborate the legal fees we agreed material invoices exercised by management, taking into account IFRS criteria and to check these were appropriately recorded.
confirmation of the underlying litigation matter from the Groups external legal counsel, including their assessment of the likelihood of success of the claimant.
We considered the sufficiency of the charge recognised in the year and the corresponding balance sheet provision.
We audited the release of the contingent consideration and the writedown of the capitalised development costs relating to Nextreme.
We challenged managements assumptions regarding future revenue projections to assess whether the release of contingent consideration was appropriate, along withtheir corresponding assumptions around the recoverability of capitalised development costs in light of the downsizing of thatbusiness.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report continued An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected 15 components which represent the principal components within the Groups two reportable segments.
In total the audits of these components provides coverage of 78% of the Groups revenue 2013,70%, 66% 2013,60% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax and 82% 2013,81% of the Groups total assets.
Full scope component audits provide coverage of 52% 2013,50% of the Groups revenue, 47% 2013,53% of the Groups profit before tax and 70% 2013,72% of the Groups total assets.
Specific scope component audits provide coverage of 26% 2013,20% of the Groups revenue, 19% 2013,7% of the Groups profit before tax and 12% 2013,9% of the Groups total assets.
Six of these components were subject to a full audit while nine components were subject to specific audit procedures including a full audit of the accounts that were impacted by our assessed risks of material misstatement and the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
One other component was subject to limited review procedures.
For the remaining components, we undertook analytical and enquiry procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
Together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, this gave us the evidence required for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits, designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the six full scope locations at least once a year.
This year, the Group audit team visited key locations in the USA, Czech Republic, China and South Korea.
The purpose of these visits is to confirm that appropriate procedures have been performed by the auditors of these components and that the significant audit areas have been covered as communicated in the detailed audit instructions, including the risks of material misstatement as outlined above.
As part of this series of visits by the Group audit team our review included examining key working papers and conclusions where these related to areas of management and auditor judgement with specific focus on the risks detailed above.
The Group audit team participated in the component teams planning, during visits made earlier in the audit period, including the component teams discussion of fraud and error.
Telephone and video meetings were held with the auditors at the majority of locations which the Group audit team did not visit in person.
During the year the Group acquired Model Solution, a South Korean entity, of which EY is not the auditor.
The Group audit team instructed the local auditor a member firm within the network of another Big 4 firm to perform specific audit procedures designed to address the risks of material misstatement as outlined above and satisfied ourselves that their audit methodology was appropriate, along with their professional competency.
The Group audit team performed the review procedures detailed above.
Our application of materiality We initially determined materiality for the Group to be 2.4 million 2013,2.3 million, which is approximately 5% 2013,5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We used adjusted profit before tax to exclude non-recurring items, namely the total of those amounts as described in note 7 to the accounts.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
During the course of our audit we reassessed initial materiality and as the actual profit of the Group did not differ significantly we retained materiality at 2.4 million.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% 2013,75% of planning materiality, namely 1.8 million 2013,1.7 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.5 million to 1.1 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 120,000 2013,115,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Laird PLC 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements.
Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report and Accounts appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us.
The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The directors statement, set out on page 98, in relation to going concern.
The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Eamonn McGrath Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 2 March 2015 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Laird PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
