Lonmin Plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit procedures to address those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of our statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and consequently are incidental to that opinion and we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.
Going concern Refer to page 67 Report from the Audit & Risk Committee and page 125 accounting policy The risk: The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis.
The strike action that took place in 2014 had a significant financial impact on the Groups financial position as the Group was loss making during this period.
Furthermore, the rising cost base of the Groups operations in South Africa and the recent fall in PGM prices have also had a negative effect on the Groups results.
The financial statements explain how the directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable expectation the going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the financial statements of the company and the Group.
The Directors have concluded that the range of possible outcomes they have considered in arriving at this judgement is not sufficient to give a material uncertainty regarding the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As this assessment involves consideration of future events there is a risk that the judgement is inappropriate and the uncertainty should have been assessed as material, in which case additional disclosures would have been required.
Our response: Our audit procedures included detailed testing of managements cash flow models over the two year period from 30 September 2014.
We agreed key inputs in the model to internally and externally derived sources.
Key assumptions include PGM pricing, production figures and working capital assumptions.
We obtained external confirmations of the Groups banking arrangements, covenant requirements and checked the Groups calculations that the forecasts involved no breaches of covenants.
We reviewed sensitivity analysis of the cash flow forecasts, and resulting covenant tests, to a number of variable factors.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of going concern.
Our findings: We found the Groups judgement that there was no materiality uncertainty to be disclosed to be balanced.
Impairment of non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax Refer to page 67 Report from the Audit & Risk Committee and pages 131 to 133 accounting policy The risk: The PGM industry has experienced rising costs, and subdued demand resulting in a depressed pricing environment.
The strike action that took place in 2014 has resulted in further increases in labour cost.
The Companys share price has significantly reduced during the year end 30 September 2014 and the market capitalisation remains below the share of net assets attributable to shareholders of the Company.
The Groups two key Cash Generating Units CGUs are Marikana and Akanani.
The Akanani asset was impaired in 2012, and any change in assumptions could lead to further impairment, or reversal of impairment.
As such there is a risk that the Groups assets need to be impaired, or in the case of Akanani, impairment may need to be reversed.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued Impairment of non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax continued Our response: Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the Directors impairment assessment for each CGU performed at year end.
We obtained the discounted cash flow models for each CGU, which are detailed and complex, and performed procedures over the accuracy of calculation of the Net Present Value.
Certain of the key inputs, specifically mineral reserves, discount rate, inflation and, in particular, PGM prices, capital and operating costs including production efficiencies, and exchange rates require significant estimation and judgement in their selection.
For these key inputs we critically assessed the reasonableness by reference to external data and forecasts, along with reports from the Groups external consultants and external mineral reserve reports.
We examined the Groups plans that lead to modelling assumptions over productivity increases around PGM recovery factors and mining labour efficiencies.
We utilised our own corporate finance specialists, IT modelling specialists and engineers to the extent necessary in performing our work.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of impairment testing, and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
Our findings: We found that the Groups discounted cash flow forecasts, when all factors are considered, to be mildly optimistic largely due to assumptions for PGM prices and production cost efficiencies.
We found the Groups disclosures to be proportionate in their description of the assumptions and estimates made by the Group and the sensitivity to changes thereon.
Recoverability of the HDSA receivable Refer to page 68 Report from the Audit & Risk Committee, page 133 accounting policy and pages 148 to 149 and pages 151 to 152 financial disclosures The risk: The group has an amount due to it from a subsidiary of Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited amounting to $417 million at 30 September 2014.
A provision was recognised against this amount during the year of $80m leaving a new carrying value of $337 million.
The amount due is secured by shares in the Shanduka subsidiary, whose only asset of value is its ultimate shareholding in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala but ring fenced from the rest of the Shanduka Group.
The majority of the amount due was provided to the Shanduka subsidiary in 2010 so that it could acquire 50.03% of Incwala, which has interests in the Groups subsidiaries, and provides the Group with its Black Economic Empowerment BEE credits.
Due to a decline in the performance and outlook of the PGM industry, subsidiaries of the Group have not been paying the quantum of dividends that were expected when the financing was first put in place, which was to be one source of income from which the Shanduka subsidiary could make repayments of the amounts due by 2015.
The value of the collateral has also fallen significantly in recent times.
Given the above factors, there is a risk that, with no obligation on the wider Shanduka Group to support it, the Shanduka subsidiary may not repay the amount when it falls due in 2015.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included discussions with representatives from the Shanduka Group to understand their intentions with regards to repayment of the amounts due, consideration of correspondence between Lonmin and the Shanduka Group regarding the amount due and KPMG Specialists assessing information as to the Shanduka Groups past and current actions regarding its BEE investments and its ability and likely actions to fund repayment or not when the HDSA receivable becomes due.
We considered the value of the collateral by reference to the underlying values of the assets, and the consolidated net liabilities of Incwala.
Given those assets held by Incwala include Marikana and Akanani, we have made use of the audit work we performed on impairment of those CGUs above.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures with regards to impairment testing for financial assets, and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the value of the collateral to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
Our findings: We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount to be mildly optimistic and that the Groups disclosures with regards to the impairment testing for the HDSA receivable to be proportionate in their description of the assumptions and estimates made by the Group concerning the value of its underlying collateral.
Physical quantities and net realisable value of inventory excluding consumables Refer to page 68 Report from the Audit & Risk Committee, page 126 accounting policy and page 149 financial disclosures The risk: Metal inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the mining and refinement processes, and prior to production as a final metal, is always contained in a carrier material.
It is not possible to determine the exact metal content contained in a carrier material until the refinement process is complete.
As such physical quantities of metal inventory are determined by sampling, and assays are taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by type of metal.
The accuracy of these samples and assays can vary quite significantly, and as such the quantum of metal inventory requires a significant amount of estimation and management judgement in its determination.
In relation to the net realisable value NRV of the inventory quantity, the PGM industry has experienced rising costs, and subdued demand resulting in a depressed pricing environment.
Since inventory is carried at the lower of cost and NRV, these risks are significant to the carrying value.
com Lonmin Plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued Physical quantities and net realisable value of inventory excluding consumables continued Our response: Our audit procedures included attendance at year end physical stock counts, where the Group engaged independent metallurgists to assist with the assessment of sampling methodologies used and the adherence to appropriate stock count processes.
We considered the competence of the metallurgists, the results of their report, and sought to understand and corroborate the reasons for significant or unusual movements in inventory quantities between the accounting records and the results of the sampling and assays performed as part of the year end physical stock counts.
We also considered the reasonableness of the downward adjustment to stock quantities that are not yet in a final refined state to recognise the estimation uncertainty inherent in the sampling and assays and the fact that not all of the material will eventually be recovered as refined metal.
We assessed this by reference to historical experience of the Company and asked the independent metallurgists to calculate an average percentage sampling or calculation error at each stage of the production process.
We also obtained the net realisable value calculations, agreed stock quantities in those calculations to the accounting records, and tested prices by reference to externally available data in the market.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the metal inventory.
Findings: We found that we had no concerns concerning the independent metallurgists competence, the physical quantities of inventory were in line with the independent metallurgists findings and that the assumptions used to estimate the loss of metal at each stage of the production process to be balanced.
We found the Groups disclosures concerning inventory estimates and valuation to be proportionate in their description.
Special items costs relating to strike action stoppage Refer to page 69 Report from the Audit & Risk Committee and page 139 financial disclosures The risk: Special items are those items that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group.
As a result of the strike action there were a number of fixed production costs incurred whilst there were either no or significantly reduced production levels.
Additionally, there were other costs such as contractor claims and security costs incurred that are incremental to what would have been incurred if the strike had not taken place.
There is an inherent element of judgement in what is directly related to the strike action and would have incurred had the strike not taken place, and hence a risk that costs presented as special items are overstated.
Our response: Our audit procedures included obtaining detailed calculations prepared by management relating to the portion of production costs incurred during the strike that had no related or significantly reduced production levels.
We assessed whether the costs were appropriately classified as special by reference to our understanding of the business.
We re-performed the calculations, agreeing the quantities and unit prices to the underlying accounting records, and performed analytical procedures over both the special and underlying costs by reference to cost per unit ounce and monthly production levels.
Our audit work over contractor claims and other costs and security costs included agreeing amount to invoice or other supporting evidence and assessing whether the costs would not have been incurred had the strike not taken place.
Our findings: For a large portion of the production costs and those relating to contractors, security and other costs incurred during the strike, it was clear which should have been classified as special items.
For those costs where assumptions and estimates had to be made, we found them to be balanced.
In reaching our audit opinion on the financial statements we took into account the findings that we describe above and those for other, lower risk areas.
Whilst we found that the financial statements use some mildly optimistic estimates, compared with materiality and considering the qualitative aspects of the financial statements as a whole, we have not modified our opinion on the financial statements.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $14.5 million 2013: $21 million determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, normalised to exclude the effect of the one-off reduction in revenue in the current year due to the strike action, of $1,520 million being the prior year actual revenue, which we consider to be a more stable benchmark than profit.
Materiality represents 0.95% of normalised Group revenue 2013: 1.4% of actual Group revenue.
The reduction in materiality as a percentage of the benchmark is due to the increased risks faced by the Group, including those contributing to the risks of material misstatement above.
We report to the audit committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $1 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Whilst Lonmin Plc is a UK company, all of the Groups significant operations are located in South Africa.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors in South Africa over six of the Groups 16 reporting components.
The Group audit team performed audits over four components, including Lonmin Plc as a standalone entity, along with the audit of the Group, including consolidation-type adjustments.
These audits gave an audit coverage of 100% of Group turnover, 95% of Group profit before taxation and 97% of the Groups total assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analytical procedures at a Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit continued The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from $0.1 million to $13.8 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team was physically present in South Africa for the duration of the substantive testing phase of the South African audit and review engagements.
In doing so the Group audit team was actively involved in the direction of the audits and review engagements performed by the component auditors for Group reporting purposes, along with the consideration of findings and determination of conclusions drawn.
The Group audit team conducted planning meetings with the component auditors around the audit approach to significant risk areas such as inventory and reviewed the scope and responsibilities of specialists engaged by the component auditors.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Report from the Audit & Risk Committee on pages 64 to 73 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 82, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the Directors Report Governance relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Robert Seale Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 9 November 2014 www.
com Lonmin Plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report required by DTR 4.1.
8R contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Brian Beamish Simon Scott Chairman Chief Financial Officer 9 November 2014
