Independent Auditors Report to the members of Marstons PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Marstons PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 4 October 2014 and of its loss and cash flows for the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 4 October 2014: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the period then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 4.2 million which represents 5% of profit before tax and non-underlying items.
Audit scope The Group audit is performed on a consolidated basis and the level of work performed over each financial statement line item is determined based on the size and nature of the transactions and balances within that line item.
Areas of focus Valuation of the estate Accounting for uncertain tax positions Disclosure of items as non-underlying Provisioning for onerous property leases The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of the estate notes 1, 12 and 15 We obtained the Directors valuation and impairment analysis and discussed with the Groups estates team.
We also took into account the impact of changes in We focused on the Directors annual assessment of the carrying value of land and macroeconomic conditions, pub performance and recent market transactions buildings because properties are a significant item on the balance sheet and there and their associated multiples.
are complex and subjective assumptions used in the valuations, including the future expected performance of pubs and multiples applied.
We verified managements assumptions on future earnings and multiples using recent market transactions data and considered the impact of movements in key assumptions.
Where material adjustments to valuations of specific assets occurred we agreed the revaluation adopted by management to external market information or third party evidence supporting the value.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Marstons PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Disclosure of items as non-underlying notes 1 and 4 We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy and whether those items disclosed as non-underlying were consistent with the accounting The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed as nonpolicy and the approach taken in previous accounting periods.
We also underlying, such as non-core estate disposal and reorganisation costs, the loss on considered an appropriate threshold to apply to non-underlying items based on the portfolio disposal of pubs and the results from the ongoing management of the financial statement line items that were affected.
For example, property items these pubs, recognition of onerous lease provisions and associated leasehold are considered by management to have a higher threshold for disclosure as nonimpairments, costs relating to the buy-back of securitised debt, movements in the underlying and we considered whether this was appropriate in the circumstances.
fair value of interest rate swaps and the credit in respect of closing the defined benefit pension plan to future accrual.
Management have included these items as We assessed whether other non-recurring items should have been classified as non-underlying using the criteria explained in their accounting policy which is non-underlying and discussed this with the Directors and the Audit Committee to disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
check whether items meeting the criteria in the Groups accounting policy had been identified and whether the treatment was consistent year on year.
We focused on this area because non-underlying items are not defined by IFRS as adopted by the European Union and it therefore requires judgement by the Specifically in relation to the revenue and costs in respect of the ongoing Directors to identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as management of the portfolio of 202 pubs disposed of in the period, we tested non-underlying is important to maintain comparability of the results with previous that the trade relating to the pubs disposed of, and only the pubs disposed of, was years.
Accounting for uncertain tax positions note 1 We examined correspondence with HM Revenue & Customs and any legal challenges relevant to the individual circumstances of each case.
We assessed the The Group has a number of outstanding corporate and indirect tax positions position taken by the Directors in respect of these uncertainties.
We evaluated the where recognition in the financial statements is judgemental given the appropriateness of the recognition or non-recognition of the benefits or liabilities uncertainty of settlement.
associated with these tax positions, and the treatment of any related interest.
These uncertainties arise because these matters have not yet been resolved with HM Revenue & Customs and the Directors have had to make material judgements about the recognition or non-recognition of the benefits associated with the tax positions.
Provisioning for onerous property leases notes 4 and 24 We tested the underlying calculations of the required provision and agreed key inputs to contractual terms for a sample of properties.
We focused in particular on the provisions for onerous property leases as they represented an area of significant judgement, such as the timing and rate of future We also compared key assumptions used such as discount rate and inflation rate sub-let agreements that may be possible for each property and the expected to market information and discussed key judgements with management, level of dilapidations that would be payable at the end of the lease.
considering alternative positions where appropriate and undertaking sensitivity analysis to model the impact on the provision where a range of appropriate outcomes existed, for example in relation to discount rates and sub-let assumptions.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the operational structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along four business lines being Destination and Premium, Taverns, Leased and Brewing, together with Group Services.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of subsidiaries and special purpose entities, principally comprising the Groups operating businesses, property companies, securitisation vehicles, holding companies and an insurance company.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit we considered the consolidated trial balance for the Group as a whole and designed our audit testing for each financial statement line item based on the size and nature of the transactions and balances that aggregated to form that line item, and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement.
We used our professional judgement to determine the nature and extent of testing required over each line item in the financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 4.2 million 2013: 4.5 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and non-underlying items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that underlying profit before tax provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring disproportionate impact of those items disclosed as non-underlying.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million 2013: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 46, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
50 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors on page 47, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 28 to 29, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 47, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Marstons PLC for the 52 week period ended 4 October 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as being audited.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 27 November 2014 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
