qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 6 Business review a joint venture between BT and Viag AG, with BT holding a 50 per cent History and development of the Company stake, and prior to 2002 was called Viag Interkom.
BTs stake reduced On 10 May 2001, BT announced its intention to demerge our to 45 per cent when Telenor AS acquired a 10 per cent stake in April businesses.
This was effected by a reorganisation, a scheme of 1997.
Pursuant to agreements made in August 2000 and January arrangement and, on 19 November 2001, the demerger transaction.
2001, BT increased its stake to 55 per cent by acquiring Telenors As a result of these transactions, our operations have been conducted 10 per cent stake for 1,032 million.
In February 2001, BT acquired as an independent entity, mmO, with key subsidiaries in the United 2 the remaining 45 per cent of the business from E. ON AG formerly Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
known as Viag AG for 4,562 million.
As part of the transactions, In September 2001, we announced a new brand, O, for the Group.
2 BT repaid loans totalling 3,615 million provided by E. ON AG and This was introduced in May 2002 and in support of that introduction Telenor AS to O Germany to fund its UMTS licence acquisitions.
2 each of the principal country company operating names, except for Manx Telecom Limited in the Isle of Man, were changed to include Initially, the business provided xed line services only, but in May 1997 the brand in their names.
Accordingly, references throughout this O Germany was awarded the fourth German GSM licence and 2 annual report to the country operations, where appropriate, refer to launched GSM mobile services in October 1998.
In August 2000, the new operating company names.
On 14 April 2003, we announced O Germany was awarded a UMTS licence in Germany.
The cost of 2 that we had agreed the sale of O Netherlands to Greeneld Capital the licence was 5.16 billion, which was paid in September 2000.
2 Partners, an independent private equity and corporate finance group In January 2001, it launched its GPRS service.
As a result of the with existing interests in the telecoms sector.
We expect completion reorganisation of our businesses in order to create our Group, in early June 2003. the xed line businesses were separated from the mobile businesses and do not form part of our Group.
The following is a brief summary of the development of our key businesses: O Netherlands 2 O Netherlands was founded in September 1996 as a joint venture 2 O UK 2 between BT and Nederlandse Spoorwegen N. V. the Dutch railway O UK is our main UK business and presently our most significant 2 company, with BT holding a 50 per cent stake, and prior to 2002 business in terms of its contribution to our revenues and profitability.
Initially, the business provided xed line O UK was formed as a joint venture between BT and Securicor services only, but in February 1998 it was awarded a mobile licence 2 Group plc in January 1984, with BT owning 51 per cent, and prior to in the Netherlands and in October 1998 it launched its GSM mobile the demerger was called BT Cellnet.
In April 1986, BT increased its network operations.
In July 2000, BT completed the acquisition of stake to 60 per cent.
In November 1999, BT acquired Securicors the remaining 50 per cent interest in the business for 1,207 million.
remaining stake in the business for 3,173 million, including Also in July 2000, the business was awarded one of the five UMTS expenses.
The business was managed separately from the businesses licences for the Netherlands at a cost of 266 million and launched of either of its former shareholders.
GPRS services to the business sector in July 2001.
As a result of the reorganisation of our businesses in order to create our Group, the xed O UK provided analogue mobile telephone services from January 2 line businesses were separated from the mobile businesses, and do 1985 until October 2000 and has provided GSM services since July not form part of our Group.
At completion of the sale of O Netherlands, 2 1994.
In April 2000, O Third Generation Limited, now one of our 2 announced on 14 April 2003, Greeneld Capital Partners will pay subsidiaries, was awarded one of the five UMTS licences in the us 25 million in cash for all the issued shares in O Netherlands.
2 United Kingdom for 4.03 billion, which was paid in May 2000.
We expect completion to occur in early June 2003.
In June 2000, O UK launched GPRS services to the UK market.
2 In implementing its strategy of increasing control over its distribution O Ireland 2 channels, O UK has made a number of significant acquisitions and Our Irish business, O Ireland, was formed in June 1995.
In May 1997, O UK acquired a 40 per cent shareholding a 1 per cent interest in the issued voting share capital of O Ireland 2 2 in The Link Stores Limited, a UK telecommunications retail outlet, from IIU Nominees Ltd in January 2000.
In March 2000, BT acquired with Dixons Stores Group Limited as the principal shareholder.
a further 49.5 per cent stake through its acquisition of Esat Telecom Group plc for 1,558 million.
In April 2000, BT acquired the BT transferred the Airwave business to us in November 2001.
1,500,000 non-voting shares held by a member of O Irelands 2 Airwave provides TETRA network services to certain public safety management, and in April 2001, BT increased its interest to 100 per organisations in the United Kingdom.
Prior to that, BT already had cent by acquiring Telenors 49.5 per cent interest for 856 million.
transferred to us its contracts to provide network services to a number of police authorities in the United Kingdom.
On demerger, O Ireland launched its commercial GSM services in March 1997 2 O UK also included the BT Mobile business BTs own mobile service and launched its GPRS service in January 2002.
O Ireland has 2 2 provider, the BT Paging business the United Kingdoms leading been awarded one of the four UMTS licences offered by the paging network and the BT Messaging business.
O Germany Manx Telecom 2 Our German business, O Germany, was launched in May 1995 as In 1987, our business in the Isle of Man, Manx Telecom, was awarded 2 6 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp006-021.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 7 a 20-year licence to operate the Isle of Man telecommunications GPRS serves as the key transitional stage in our roll-out of UMTS network.
The licence originally covered xed line telephony but was services.
During 1999 and 2000, we secured licences to operate expanded in 1994 to include GSM mobile services and in 1999 to UMTS mobile services in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Isle include UMTS services.
Manx Telecom launched Europes first UMTS of Man.
Last year we were also awarded a UMTS licence in Ireland.
network in December 2001, offering high-speed data and advanced In addition to conventional voice and data services, UMTS will permit business and e-commerce solutions.
us to offer high-resolution video and multimedia services and significant enhancements to the mobile data services available on O Online GPRS.
Our business in the Isle of Man launched Europes first fully 2 O Online, the UKs leading mobile internet businesses, was originally operational UMTS network in December 2001, offering a full range 2 developed in 1997 as part of O UK in the United Kingdom, and of high-bandwidth applications, including video telephony and 2 prior to 2002 was called Genie.
As of 31 March 2003, O Online advanced business and e-commerce solutions.
2 had operations in the United Kingdom and Asia.
We continue to believe, as we did last year, that we have positioned our Group as one of the leading providers of mobile data services in Reorganisation Europe.
We have done this in part through O Online, our mobile 2 As a result of the reorganisation of our businesses, the scheme of internet business, which we believe is the UK market leader in arrangement and the demerger transaction, we now own the mobile portal services.
The O Online mobile offering is designed to 2 international mobile businesses of BT described above.
create value for us by attracting high-value customers, by increasing the voice and data usage of our networks and by reducing churn Business overview through high-quality content, services and applications and closer Introduction relationships with customers.
We doubled our online subscriber We are a leading provider of mobile communication services in base to more than half a million customers last year of which Europe.
As at 31 March 2003, our business served 19.37 million almost half are high value contract customers.
mobile customers in the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland, the Since its launch, O s corporate e-mail on the move solution, 2 Netherlands and the Isle of Man.
Our mobile businesses in the BlackBerry, has been enhanced to include voice capability, United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man are all attachment opening, Lotus Notes capability and international wholly-owned and together they cover territories with a total roaming to 21 countries.
To date, more than 23,000 devices have population of over 147 million people.
Our combined Group been sold to 650 organisations.
The xda from O was the first truly 2 turnover for the year ended 31 March 2003 reached 4,874 million, integrated GSM GPRS enabled PDA based on MS pocket PC 2002 up 14.0 per cent from 4,276 million for the preceding year.
phone edition and was launched in May 2002.
By March 2003, more We have well-established and profitable mobile businesses in the than 55,000 devices had been sold in the UK, Germany, Ireland, the United Kingdom and Ireland, where O UK and O Ireland each have 2 2 Netherlands and Asia Pacic.
a track record of revenue and customer growth.
In these countries, Strengths we have developed a strong presence in high-value markets, such as Last year we said we believed that the following key strengths would the business market, and in the provision of mobile data services.
enable our Group to enhance its position as one of the leading Our business in Germany has continued to grow signicantly since providers of mobile communications services in Europe: its GSM mobile network was launched in October 1998 and at European footprint of cohesive wholly-owned businesses: 31 March 2003 had over 4.8 million customers.
The business has established mobile businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland: made a large investment in its network and has continued to growing business in Germany: expand its position in target markets by exploiting new and existing well positioned for GPRS and UMTS success in our markets: distribution channels and developing innovative products.
a leading position in mobile data in our markets: and track record of innovation.
On 14 April 2003, we announced the sale of O Netherlands 2 to Greeneld Capital Partners.
The announcement followed a Last year we formulated a Group-wide strategy that would enable us comprehensive review of the highly competitive Dutch market.
The to best leverage these strengths, this has since evolved to reect our Dutch market comprises five players and is highly penetrated, with experiences over the year.
two of the largest competitors holding a combined market share of Strategy approximately 70 per cent.
As one of the three small players we did As described in the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers welcome not have the critical mass required to deliver sufciently attractive statement, we believe that we have made good progress in meeting returns in the long term.
the strategic objectives we set ourselves last year, but we recognise Our mobile businesses in the United Kingdom, Germany and Ireland that to succeed our strategy must continue to evolve and our have all deployed mobile packet data capabilities based on GPRS marketing emphasis must change to reect the changing nature of technology.
GPRS offers always-on connectivity for mobile our marketplace.
Becoming an integral part of our customers lives ofce services, e-commerce, banking, online billing, telemetry, by knowing what is important to them and helping them to get entertainment, mobile internet and other mobile data services.
more out of life, is a primary aim of our strategy going forward and requires a clear understanding of the differences between different www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 8 Business review types of customer in order to provide a better overall experience to meeting this target, generating growth in blended ARPU of them.
The experience starts when a customer walks into an O shop 9.8 per cent over the course of the year.
2 or goes online to make a purchase and continues right through the Increase customer loyalty.
Last year we reported that we had usability of a particular product or service, and on to customer care.
implemented a number of customer loyalty and retention measures, To achieve our aim of providing a better customer experience, including targeted customer incentive initiatives and pre-contract we are developing a new segmentation framework to ensure that termination save programmes, aimed at encouraging greater we really do understand the needs and priorities of our customers.
At O UK, through successful 2 Using this framework we plan to deliver a range of service packages customer relationship management initiatives, including these loyalty to different types of customer.
At the same time, we are enhancing and retention measures, we reduced the rate of contract customer our IT systems to improve our customer relationship management churn, which fell from 31 per cent to 28 per cent.
We have also capability and help us transform our retail presence.
reduced contract customer churn from 21 per cent to 16 per cent in O Germany and 23 per cent to 17 per cent in O Ireland.
2 2 Our aim is that by gaining greater customer insight and focusing on improving the customer experience, we will increase customer Focus on cost efficiencies.
Both O UK and O Germany have 2 2 satisfaction among higher value customers and improve our ability participated in downsizing programmes and these have already to attract and retain them, thereby helping to increase ARPU, yielded cost efficiencies.
In the UK, O scaled back its permanent 2 reduce churn and improve operational performance.
workforce during the financial year to March 2003 by some 1,400 jobs and restructured its retail stores portfolio from 320 to 196 stores.
O 2 Our goal remains to create shareholder value through above sector Germany reduced its workforce from 3,900 to 3,400 between 2002 and average growth in revenue and profitability.
We still regularly undertake benchmarking exercises and The new strategic emphasis, outlined above, supports this goal and actively pursue best practice programmes to reduce our costs.
the key elements in implementing our strategy are: Achieve competitive scale in Germany.
We have grown our emphasise operational performance and execution: share of the customer base in Germany, increasing subscribers by achieve greater integration by managing our businesses 23.7 per cent over the year to 4.8 million by the end of March 2003. cohesively: and We aim to continue this momentum and as we do so our primary deliver leadership in data services.
focus will remain on building our retail business.
Last year we said that in this area we would continue to expand our direct channels, Emphasise operational performance and execution including owned shops, branded partner shops and web-based Operational performance and execution is still our key priority.
After identifying gaps in the distribution network, we plan includes driving up financial performance by improving our customer in the coming year to increase the number of our direct outlets by mix, increasing customer loyalty and stimulating revenues.
We aim to 220 to 508 including some new O shops, but mainly in partnership 2 continue improving our cost base, including reducing unit costs in with other retailers.
It is also critical that we improve the profitability, growth and competitiveness of our UK business.
Achieve greater integration by managing our businesses cohesively Improve customer mix.
At O UK in the financial year 2003 there 2 Our aim is to gain competitive advantage by increasing speed of was a turnaround in the previous years declining trend in the postexecution and reducing costs and complexity through doing things pay base.
Post-pay contracts grew as a proportion of the overall once, where it makes sense to do so.
Examples include achieving customer base from 32.0 per cent in March 2002 to 33.7 per cent a consistent brand experience across our businesses, building and in March 2003.
We believe this was partly due to improvements in managing a Group-wide product set, implementing a shared vendor network quality and it has contributed to an increase in blended strategy, procuring devices on a Group-wide basis and harmonising key ARPU over the same period of 16. elements of our IT systems.
Most of the major programmes are already In Germany, Genion, our mobile services product, remains an in place and the priority is now therefore efficiency of execution.
important driver of O Germanys success.
Genion, which accounted 2 Consistent brand experience.
Since its launch in May 2002, our for the majority of gross additions last year, sharpens our strategic new brand has gained good momentum and awareness of the new focus on more profitable customers, generating higher ARPU and a brand has exceeded our own targets.
We believe that having a considerably lower churn rate than other mobile products.
Genion common brand is beginning to facilitate a more cohesive marketing customers made up more than 30 per cent of our total customer orientation and uniform level of service.
This has made a significant contribution to the positive trend in ARPU at O Germany.
In March 2002, we put in place a single 2 product team Products O across all our country markets to drive 2 In Ireland, blended SAC fell by 33 per cent in the course of the year the delivery of our single product road map addressing products and and blended ARPU increased by 6.7 per cent, while post-pay churn services for business customers and consumers.
During the year we rate fell by 26.1 per cent.
successfully introduced products in the following key areas with We set ourselves a specic operational target for the financial year particular appeal to high-value users.
to 31 March 2003 to raise ARPU in the Netherlands.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 9 The xda from O has found a rm following since its launch in May The following table represents the turnover for each of our operating 2 2002.
By March 2003, more than 55,000 had been sold in the UK, businesses for the three financial years ended 31 March.
Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and Asia Pacic.
Year ended 31 March 2003 2002 2001 The BlackBerry was launched across all our territories.
To date, m m m more than 23,000 devices have been sold to 650 organisations.
We have consolidated our existing supply O Germany 1,060 875 65 2 contracts for the UMTS network and replaced them with new O Netherlands 263 200 90 2 strategic partnerships.
Nortel Networks and Nokia have become the O Ireland 442 395 309 2 principal suppliers of our broadband mobile data networks and this O Online 93 100 15 2 will help us control capital expenditure.
Other operations 64 54 47 Intragroup eliminations 73 104 32 Deliver data leadership Last year we set out our aim to grow revenues from leading edge Total 4,874 4,276 3,200 mobile technology and services and have made significant progress in achieving this over the course of the financial year to March 2003.
Operations by country Data as a proportion of service revenues increased to 17.3 per cent O UK 2 from 11.7 per cent, underpinning our leading position in this Operational achievements expanding market ahead of our target of 16 per cent.
In the past year our focus has been on delivering improvements in the efficiency of our operations, enhancing our performance in our Group-wide UK, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands, more than target high value sectors of the market by stimulating usage and 8.507 billion SMS text messages were sent, an increase of 60.1 per reducing customer churn, while securing improvements in the quality cent over the previous year.
O UK customers sent half a billion text 2 of our network.
The O UK management team has performed 2 messages during the month of December the largest volume of strongly in these key areas of our business, delivering enhanced person-to-person messages handled by a UK operator in a single operational efficiency and improved profitability.
We continue to see significant revenue potential in SMS, completed during the first half of the year, led to a 17 per cent including person-to-person, premium and wholesale text messaging.
reduction in the number of full-time employees, enhancing our We also made an encouraging start to our portfolio of interactive efficiency without impairing our ability to provide an improved services.
From launch until 31 March 2003 we added over 200,000 customer experience.
significant progress was made in improving Java Unique visitors and added just under 100,000 MMS Active our performance in the post-pay, higher value sector of the market users.
We expect usage to increase throughout 2003 with the by providing a better service to the business, professional and young introduction of full MMS interconnection between networks adult customers who are the focus of our marketing efforts.
During and a greater choice of multimedia, colour-screen handsets.
the year, we turned round the previous years declining trend in the share of our post-pay customer base, with post-pay contracts growing Going forward, our aim is to help customers get more out of their as a proportion of the overall customer base from 32 per cent lives by delivering a better data experience to them, rather than to 34 per cent.
At the same time, through improved customer always aiming to be first-to-market with new technology.
The focus communication and retention programmes, we reduced the rate will be on ensuring we have a close t with customer requirements of contract customer churn from 31 per cent to 28 per cent.
Our and expectations, easy access to and use of data services, high levels O Loyalty Programme won the top award in the Marketing Direct 2 of customer training and support across all touch-points and tightly Intelligence Awards and overall measures of customer satisfaction integrated services, devices and brand.
A good example of this is the continued to rise.
Reecting the higher quality of our customer base imminent introduction of O Active.
This should provide customers 2 and improvements in network performance, blended ARPU rose over with rapid access to mobile data services MMS, games and music the same period from 231 to 247.
Key corporate customer wins through icons on precongured handsets.
O Active quickly adapts 2 included the BBC, Logica, Woolworths, the Bank of Ireland and the to the individual, allowing frequently used services to be accessed Co-operative Group.
Refurbished O retail stores performed strongly, 2 more easily and rapidly.
making a significant contribution to customer growth and to a reduction in SACs.
Sales per store were more than twice the level of the previous year.
Our customer management capability programme including the introduction of interactive knowledge databases for customer care advisors, new order processing and an upgraded billing system began to deliver benets.
We continued to invest cost-effectively in our existing GSM or 2G infrastructure.
Network quality also continued to improve, leading to a further fall in the rate of dropped calls on our network.
We are now achieving levels equal to the best in the industry.
Last year O UK consolidated its 2 leadership in data services.
Data grew as a proportion of service www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 10 Business review revenues from 11.8 per cent to 17.1 per cent of the total and SMS other mobile products.
Thanks to its advanced technology, Genion is messages sent grew to a record-breaking and market-leading able to offer innovative services in combination with reduced tariffs 5.8 billion.
The launch of the xda from O a fully integrated mobile close to those for fixed-line products in a geographical area chosen 2 phone and PDA and the first pan-O product has been well-received, by the customer, usually near the home or workplace.
No other 2 accounting for 59 per cent of the voice enabled PDA market in the operator in Germany can offer this service.
Genion customers at UK, according to the latest gures from Context, and attracting the end of March 2003 accounted for more than 60 per cent of our numerous awards and accolades from national and trade press.
Our post-paid customer base and more than 30 per cent of our total BlackBerry always on e-mail solution for business customers also customer base.
Genion also propelled us to further success in the continued to enjoy success, as did the Treo organiser.
We launched German business market.
We won Caritas Stuttgart, Voith Turbo and the new generation of MMS during the year.
We expect that MMS, Thuringer Energie as clients.
In data services overall O Germany had 2 with its media rich content, combining text, pictures and voice, a very successful year.
We established ourselves as market leaders in will be a source of growth in the future.
The issue of interoperability data, in terms of revenue share, driving data up to over 19 per cent between UK networks, a potential obstacle to the diffusion of MMS, of our service revenues.
SMS services were the main source of was overcome and agreements are now in place with other UK growth in data revenues, boosted by both person-to-person and network operators.
Our sponsorship of Big Brother, the reality premium SMS services such as TV-voting, games, logos and ring-tones.
TV programme, was the industrys largest ever mobile data initiative Our portfolio of premium services, including the launch of SMS in terms of volume and revenue and generated with over 10 million Chat, developed further and we acquired more internet portal text messages carried across the O network during the third series.
O launched MMS in Germany in November 2002 2 2 O became both the ofcial club sponsor and exclusive mobile and was the first mobile operator in the German market to offer 2 communications partner to Arsenal.
O also continued to sponsor MMS interconnection to every other mobile network.
Future growth 2 England rugby, providing a range of interactive and exclusive in MMS is expected to lead to further increases in the proportion services.
Our efforts in this area won independent recognition.
O of data service revenues and ARPU.
There was a significant increase 2 won the Marketing Initiative of the Year award for Big Brother 3 and in the number of GPRS active users and, during the year, the xda Arsenal Interactive Partnerships at the Utility Week Awards.
We won Bertelsmann, Gruner and Jahr 2 and Berliner Verlag as customers for the BlackBerry device.
In Market dynamics partnership with m. able, we created a mobile sales data solution The number of competitors in the UK market has risen from four for mobilesteps, an IT and telecoms sales company.
At the CeBIT to five with the launch of 3 in March 2003.
In current market Conference in March 2003, we presented further mobile services in conditions, which are close to saturation, we regard this number games, music, messaging, information and business.
This year we of operators as challenging.
plan to introduce a Wireless LAN offering as a complementary Looking ahead service to high-speed wireless networks such as 3G, especially for Our focus continues to be on attracting and retaining high-value business customers.
We plan to introduct 3G services in Germany customers and on driving strong top line revenue growth from data from late 2003.
By this time, enough handsets should be available to and MMS applications rather than through increased subscriber meet market demand.
O has secured a deal with T-Mobile to utilise 2 numbers.
At the same time we can do more on cost efficiency.
its 3G network from the outset.
Mobile Number Portability was Both avenues should lead to improved profitability.
O was the most successful operator in the 2 market, winning the largest number of customers from other operators.
O Germany 2 Market dynamics Operational achievements As penetration reached 69 per cent 63 per cent in March 2002 Important programmes were carried out last year to streamline and moved towards saturation levels, the German mobile market operations and accelerate revenue growth.
To reduce costs and continued to grow but more slowly than in recent years.
About improve efficiency we took steps to optimise site rentals, restructure 4.3 million new customers were acquired during the financial year, our sales channel mix and reduce headcount by the equivalent of taking total connections to 60 million mobile connections at the end 500 full time employees.
More customer retention packages were of March 2003.
We continue to believe that the German wireless introduced, supported by a win-back team to re-attract customers, market is one of the most attractive in Europe.
There is, however, a which contributed to the substantial reduction in blended churn limit to the number of operators that it can support.
During the year from 28 per cent to 16 per cent.
We also launched segmented the number of 3G network operators reduced from six to four product offerings using customer-insight technologies based on T-Mobile, Vodafone D2, E-Plus and O Germany as two of the 2 our Customer Relationship Management capability.
After identifying original six operators awarded 3G licences in 2000 MobilCom gaps in the distribution network, we plan to increase the number and Quam abandoned plans to enter the market.
of our direct outlets, including some new O shops but mainly in 2 partnership with other retailers.
Genion, our unique mobile services Looking ahead product, remains the major driver of O Germanys success.
Genion, Last year our focus was on improving the cost and revenue basis of the 2 which accounted for the majority of gross additions last year, company.
In the coming 12 months our priority will be to assess our core underlines our strategic focus on more profitable customers, processes to see how we can adapt them to best serve our customers.
generating higher ARPU and a considerably lower churn rate than We intend to launch a range of further services such as multi-card 10 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp006-021.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 11 Wireless LAN, Loyalty Customer Reward Systems and also the start a way that is as unobtrusive as possible to local communities.
We of our 3G solutions and a comprehensive portfolio of mobile data continued to upgrade a number of sites, which delivered improved products.
Future growth potential for Genion remains good.
Our network quality and capacity at a lower network cost.
O Ireland is a 2 overall objective is to continue to grow our market share in company that is committed to investing in and playing a part in the Germany by one percentage point per annum focused on postdevelopment of local communities around the country.
We are active pay customers, the business and wholesale sectors.
in a wide range of activities that are integral to Irish life.
Market dynamics O Ireland 2 The number of competitors in the Irish mobile market is set to Operational achievements increase from January 2004 with the introduction of 3 Hutchison Our management teams continued focus on customer satisfaction Telecom.
As part of the 3G licence process, O Ireland and Vodafone 2 and operating excellence was recognised in a number of industry Ireland were awarded B licences while 3 was awarded the only awards and commendations last year.
In April 2003, O Ireland was 2 A licence.
The main differences in the licences are price and coverage named Telecoms Company of the Year at the ICT Expo Awards.
The fee for the A licence is 50 million, Our portal website www.
O. ie won Irelands leading technology 2 while the fee for the B licence is 114 million.
The B licence, award, the Golden Spider Award, for the second year running.
The while more expensive, carries less aggressive roll-out and coverage award recognises the most innovative use of mobile data through requirements.
Meteor, the third 2G operator in the Irish market the development of services and products.
Delivering high levels of did not apply for a licence.
customer satisfaction requires top quality products and top quality people as well.
At the Irish Institute of Training and Development Looking ahead Awards 2002, O Ireland picked up two awards for the Best Training The focus for O Ireland over the coming year will be on further 2 2 Programme and the Best e-learning in the large business sector.
understanding the needs of our customers and satisfying those O Ireland won the FAS Excellence through People award 2002 needs as efficiently as possible.
ARPU in the Irish mobile phone 2 and the ECDL Corporate Section Award for promotion and market continues to be above the European average due to the high delivery of Equalskills 2002.
At the seventh Annual Irish Call Centre levels of both voice and non-voice usage.
O Ireland will continue 2 Awards, O Ireland was short-listed for the Best Training Programme to look at ways of maximising value from existing voice services 2 Award.
The growth in data service was driven mainly through and a growing stream of value added, non-voice services.
Any new increased SMS usage and take up of GPRS services.
We made good investment in the existing 2G network will continue to be justied progress in sales of the BlackBerry device, exceeding our targets on a financial pay-back basis and where possible will be shared with the aid of extensive advertising and direct sales incentives.
with the roll-out of our 3G network where our investment will be In the corporate market, we gained a number of important new demand-driven.
customers including the Cantrell and Cochrane Group and the Richmond Group.
O Netherlands 2 We announced the sale of O Netherlands on 14 April 2003 and 2 We continued to expand the range of O Irelands on-line services 2 expect completion in early June 2003. and these now include games, MTV ringtones, bill view on line, Chat, WebSMS, and multimedia messaging.
A major success was Operational achievements our operation of the website for RTEs highly popular Youre a Star O Netherlands generated good financial results and secured 2 talent show, sponsored by O Ireland.
Viewers cast their votes via significant improvements in operational efficiency and in the quality 2 premium text messaging using O s SMS Broker service, now called of service offered to customers by providing compelling new 2 Mobile Marketing.
On the final night of the show more than products, better network quality and a high level of service delivery.
850,000 SMS votes were cast using our Mobile Marketing service.
We set ourselves a specic operational target for the past financial O Ireland launched Irelands first public Wireless Local Area Network year to raise ARPU.
We succeeded in meeting this target, generating 2 service, wireless zone, in early February 2003. wireless zone enables underlying growth in ARPU of over five per cent over the course business people on the move to connect to the Internet at of the year.
This partly reected the strategic focus last year on the broadband speeds 25 30 times the speed of a dial-up modem higher-usage, post-pay customer whose numbers increased by 27 within 12 specic public locations, or hotspots, nationwide.
At the same time, the company launched a number of Representing a 1.9 million investment by O Ireland and using the targeted campaigns to persuade new and existing customers to 2 inherent capability of the companys core nationwide data network, adopt its new data products and services.
O Netherlands was at the 2 wireless zone is available to both O and non-O customers.
forefront in its response to calls for transparency in mobile phone 2 2 call tariffs.
In September 2002, it took the unique step of abolishing Our distribution strategy continues to be a cornerstone of our handset subsidies in the retail sales channel, replacing them with a success.
In May 2002, we announced the formation of a new retail new SIM-only subscription with clearer, lower tariffs.
This innovative company, O Retail, and the consolidation and full integration of 2 marketing initiative received a positive response from both the media O Irelands four existing retail operations under the O Retail banner.
The O portal became the most popular website 2 This removed duplication of stores, reduced overhead costs and for mobile communications in the Netherlands, guiding existing enabled us to bring a common, focused retail approach.
We have customers through the portfolio of products and services and continued to expand our network in a cost-efficient manner and in fullling an important function as a sales channel by attracting new www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 12 Business review subscriptions.
In the business market, based on customer feedback, which enables ofcers to summon immediate assistance.
The O Netherlands introduced at-rate tariffs and product innovations.
Airwave network is based on the open European standard for digital 2 The xda from O saw good initial sales and the BlackBerry GPRS TETRA.
In addition to almost 100 per cent geographical coverage, 2 terminal enjoyed an encouraging take-up and found a following capacity will be available on Airwave whenever and wherever a not just in the business market.
During the Dutch general election public safety user needs it a vital feature in emergencies.
Voice campaign in November 2002 the BlackBerry was used as a tool for quality is very clear and there is a facility for encryption, which the largest political party, CDA, helping to keep candidates and means that third parties cannot listen in, allowing the police, for campaign workers in touch with each other and with the campaign example, to keep one step ahead of criminals.
O Netherlands secured significant improvements in provide a common platform for public safety organisations, giving 2 network quality last year through additional investment, including them true interoperability and comprehensive geographical investment in E-GSM an extra frequency with the aim of further coverage.
Lack of communication at major emergencies and disasters optimising the networks range indoors.
Key corporate customer has been highlighted as a significant factor in hampering the effective wins during the year included IBM, Siemens, Cap Gemini, Ericsson, co-ordination of rescue efforts by the emergency services.
With Europol, Ernst & Young and Clifford Chance.
O also signed a major Airwave, police ofcers from different forces can talk to one another 2 afnity deal with the Dutch international airline KLM, targeted at the or to ofcers from other emergency services who can, in turn, members of its frequent yer loyalty programme.
To maximise the use communicate directly with one another.
of the network the company continued to strengthen its partnerships What Airwave can do for the police: with third party telecoms providers.
debitel Nederland BV and Tele2 Ofcers in Lancashire and West Mercia using Airwave have caught began to offer full voice and data services over the O network 2 burglars carrying analogue radio scanners.
The criminals had been during the year.
At the same time the operational management of expecting to monitor the whereabouts of police ofcers but have the network was transferred to Ericsson.
SMS continued to be the main been prevented from doing so by Airwaves encryption.
The call driver of growth in data, while MMS was launched in October 2002. clarity provided by Airwave has also been an advantage to ofcers in Suffolk and North Yorkshire who were previously hampered by East Airwave Coast Interference, which sometimes put them in contact with Last year we continued to invest heavily in the roll-out of Airwave, Dutch taxi drivers and North Sea trawlers.
our digital radio system for public safety and emergency organisations, delivering the service to our tenth police force.
Over the next Michael Craik, Deputy Chief Constable Northumbria Police has this 12 months more than 20 further police forces, including the to say about Airwave: Metropolitan Police, are due to go live.
We invested 163 million in Feedback on the new features and functionality of the Airwave our network development last year and capital spending in the service from all the Area Commands where it is live has been 2004 financial year will also be significant.
Under the terms of extremely positive the extra coverage and voice quality has a 2.9 billion, 19-year contract with the Home Ofce, Airwave will received special mention from ofcers.
be the sole supplier of core mobile radio services to all 53 police forces in England, Scotland and Wales.
The Airwave network is What Airwave can do for Fire Brigades: currently used by forces in Lancashire, Greater Manchester, The Airwave solution for Fire Brigades would be based on an existing North Yorkshire, West Mercia, Northumbria, Suffolk, Leicestershire, and fully rolled-out network, providing exceptionally clear speech Cambridgeshire, Derbyshire and Humberside.
Opportunities for quality to control room staff and re crews.
We want to work Airwave are not restricted to police forces.
Airwave is also currently actively with other market leaders to develop world-class voice and used by the British Transport Police, the Lancashire Fire Brigade, data solutions for the Fire Brigades, in line with their modernisation the Shropshire Fire Brigade, Hereford and Worcester NHS Ambulance agendas.
While network reliability is vital, O Airwave considers that 2 Trust and the Ministry of Defence police.
The UK Government has the overall dependability of the end-to-end solution is paramount.
recently invited tenders for the implementation of nationwide An example of just such a solution is the interim five-year Airwave communications systems for the countrys Fire and Ambulance contract for the Shropshire Fire and Rescue Service.
Airwave has submitted competitive bids for both the provision and management of Airwave voice facilities, procurements.
Airwave is a sophisticated, fully encrypted digital radio a comprehensive mobile data solution together with mobile system, which cannot be scanned or monitored by outsiders.
Scheduled for completion by the end of 2005, the Airwave network Ian Kerr, Chief Fire officer of Shropshire Fire and Rescue Service, will allow the police to communicate seamlessly and securely says: Following the Airwave trials with the police, we were keen throughout England, Scotland and Wales.
Airwaves multi-functional to share the benets of using the same technology.
With improved handsets, combining a digital radio and mobile phone, will also in access to risk data, Airwave will enhance the level of safety we can future operate as data terminals enabling ofcers in the eld to give our re ghters.
And Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service LFRS access local and national databases, such as the Police National says: The Airwave service has provided LFRS with a wide area Computer and driving licence information.
As well as making a network that gives exceptional clarity of voice together with a significant contribution to the ght against crime, the system technology that offers further development opportunities for LFRS.
promotes officer safety, partly because it has better radio coverage and call clarity, but also because of its emergency button feature, 12 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp006-021.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 13 What Airwave can do for ambulance services: politicians and print and broadcast media from around the world, Airwave has shown itself in the eld to be a secure and reliable wishing to see the ground-breaking service at first hand.
At the mechanism for transmitting ambulance data.
Patient data, including Manx International Rally in August 2002, 3G connectivity at each of ElectroCardioGraph and vital signs, has been carried across the the checkpoints around the course meant that driver information, Airwave network.
At the same time Airwave has enabled the times and results were for the first time simultaneously available all intelligent mobilisation of ambulances, helping the service to meet over the course via a web-based application.
We are pleased that the targets for ambulance response times, supported by status mobile industry has recognised our achievements.
We have won messaging and vehicle tracking.
awards from Mobile News Technology Innovation Award and Tarica Billing Magazine Airwave has also been chosen as an interim solution, pending the Globe Award for Excellence in Mediation.
In November 2002, outcome of the national procurement, for Hereford and Worcester Manx Telecoms 3G services also gained Highly Commended at NHS Ambulance Trust.
Brian Chambers, Director of Clinical Services, the eBTA Awards, hosted by Charteris and the Institute of Directors, Hereford and Worcester NHS Ambulance Trust, says: We are in the category Most Innovative Project.
working in partnership with Airwave to provide reliable mobile data communications for the 21st century.
Looking ahead Discussions are currently underway with the Isle of Man Government Our commitment to almost 100 per cent national coverage for the over the terms of the renewal of our licence ahead of the expiry emergency services means that the roll-out of our network will take date of the current licence in 2006.
We have demonstrated our us into areas that are challenging from a planning point of view.
commitment to ensuring that we deliver the best possible service These include national parks, other areas of natural beauty as well to our customers by achieving an overall satisfaction rating of over as major cities.
Airwave, although not an ofcial signatory to the 98 per cent across the whole of the Manx Telecom portfolio.
mobile phone industrys Ten Commitments on mast siting, does We have also invested 7.5 million during the year to upgrade apply those principles in its own consultation procedures with local and enhance the existing network and to deliver new services.
Looking ahead O Online 2 We shall continue to invest in the build-out of the Airwave network O Online is our mobile services website portal.
Customers 2 until its completion by the end of 2005.
We shall also address the use our portal to access their e-mail, send text messages, download expanding range of opportunities for winning potential Airwave ringtones or the latest political and sports news and even build their customers among the emergency services and public safety own mobile internet pages.
organisations at a time when there is heightened concern about national security and terrorist attacks.
Operational highlights Last year O Online grew rapidly, underlining O s position as the 2 2 Manx Telecom clear UK market leader in mobile portal services.
We doubled our Operational achievements online subscriber base to more than half a million customers, Manx Telecom has been at the forefront of introducing new of which almost half are high-value contract customers.
Customers telecommunications technology and services.
The Isle of Man has for our premium rate services, such as ring tones and pre-paid alerts, had the benefit of broadband ADSL services over xed lines since have consistently recorded some of the highest ARPU levels within March 2000, when Manx Telecom launched these services ahead of mmO.
The use of WAP services through our mobile portal 2 the UK.
ADSL services are now available to around 80 per cent of demonstrated strong growth as customers embraced mobile Internet the islands population and the number of connections continues to messaging, games, sport and news information via their mobile rise steadily.
In December 2001, Manx Telecom became the first handset.
co. uk, was named as Best Site operator in Europe to launch a fully operational 3G mobile network.
Manx Telecoms 3G network supports location-based services, video telephony, online gaming and video surveillance, as well as voice Interactive services calls and high speed Internet access.
Manx Telecoms 3G project has O Online has had a key role in developing the interactive mobile 2 been a key demonstration of O s mobile data leadership and is services that are used increasingly to communicate media-related 2 providing an invaluable practical learning experience to other O content in recent, innovative marketing campaigns.
Interactive 2 businesses as they plan the implementation of 3G services in their techniques include text voting, gaming quizzes, ringtones, icons and own territories.
In May 2002, we transported a 3G base station to news alerts together with the facility to text comments to TV and Dublin to conduct a live demonstration in support of O Irelands radio programmes.
During the year, in response to the increasing 2 successful bid for a 3G licence.
Since its launch we have offered a demand for these applications, O Online developed Mobile 2 3G trial service to over 100 interested parties.
We have also Interactive Services a new capability that provides co-branded announced Europes first 3G tariffs and have tested a wide variety of and own brand mobile text based services across the media, applications across the new high-speed network.
As one of a very sport, consumer goods and finance sectors.
We developed further small number of operators around the world who can demonstrate our sponsorship agreements with Arsenal and the England rugby 3G, Manx Telecom has attracted over 1,200 visitors, including team to provide interactive services to fans.
We also used our skills www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 14 Business review to run the ofcial websites for high prole interactive television market towards interconnect between networks and was the programmes including Channel 4s Big Brother 3, the BBCs first to announce such agreements in the UK and Germany Fame Academy and RTEs Youre a Star.
Big Brother 3 generated in enabling customers to share multimedia messages with their excess of 10 million premium rate text messages during the nine friends, family and colleagues on other networks.
mmO has 2 week programme making it the most successful premium rate seen encouraging usage of its picture messaging service since mobile data event to date in Europe.
Third party customers included launch and expects this to grow further as penetration of Granada, for Popstars the Rivals, ITV for Im a Celebrity, Get Me suitable devices within the market increases.
Out of Here, Masterfoods, RAC and the Capital Radio Group.
O has recently announced trials of video and the world's 2 first music over mobile services using existing mobile data Looking ahead networks.
Video services being trialled include the ability to In the coming year, O Online will continue to target high-value 2 create and send 10-second video clips, and to browse, select customers with competitive and appealing voice and mobile data and download video clips including regularly updated news, services.
We will be offering a specialist online business shop to sport, weather and entertainment.
Once selected, the clip will enable business customers to take advantage of specialist tailored be streamed or downloaded direct to the mobile handset.
online tariffs, online care and online billing.
It is just one way in The O music service enables customers to select, retrieve and 2 which we will seek to improve our customers interface with us, store the latest chart hits via their GPRS-enabled mobile handset making it easier for them to access content and applications that onto a specially designed digital music player and start will enhance their lives.
Products O Business O continues to provide leading mobile data solutions for 2 2 mmO is committed to delivering data leadership, and Products O businesses.
Uptake of the corporate e-mail on the move solution 2 2 develops the mobile data capability and services to help it achieve BlackBerry continues with more than 23,000 devices now sold this goal.
O achieved clear leadership in this market, 2 accounting for more than 65 per cent of the total BlackBerry The Company continues to demonstrate strong performance in this devices sold in Europe during the year.
Enhancements over the last eld and exceeded its 2003 financial year target of 16 per cent of 12 months include voice capability, attachment opening, Lotus Notes revenues from data, reaching 17.3 per cent across the Group.
capability and extensive international roaming.
The Group has recently Messaging mmO retained its position as the home of text, with announced it is to trial a BlackBerry solution for the SME market.
Group-wide, more than 8.5 billion text The xda from O the worlds first truly integrated colour PDA and 2 messages were sent by our customers, up 60 per cent on the previous GPRS mobile handset, combining touch screen PDA functionality year, and well over half of O customers now use text messaging.
In 2 with advanced mobile phone capability was launched in May the UK, O maintained its number one position, while both O Germany 2 2 2002.
Sales continue to show steady growth to date more than and O Ireland recorded strong growth in text messaging, with Ireland 2 55,000 devices have been sold in the UK, Germany, Ireland, the consistently achieving amongst the highest SMS usage levels in Europe.
As well as winning excellent reviews, Taking peer-to-peer text to the next stage, mmO is also leading the xda users are using its functionality to the full and are consistently 2 market in the provision of innovative premium text messaging services, amongst mmO s heaviest data users.
2 including ring-tones, text alerts, votes, sports information and picture Driven by these developments, use of mmO s medium speed mobile 2 messaging.
The Company has recorded strong usage of such services data GPRS networks recorded significant growth to more than half particularly in regard to its interactive partnerships with Arsenal a million active users across the Group.
Football Club and reality TV programme Big Brother in the UK.
Looking ahead Mobile data applications Building on its success in text messaging Our focus for the year ahead is to leverage our leadership position and mobile Internet services, and its ability to attract and retain in text messaging to deliver further growth in the uptake of mobile high-value customers, O has launched number of mobile data 2 data services.
We plan to stimulate sustained and active usage applications during the year that are proving appealing to high through the delivery of compelling services that are easy to use value-users: and appeal to our target audiences within both the high-value mmO s Java games service, the O Games Arcade, is proving 2 2 consumer and business markets.
We intend to drive penetration highly popular amongst the high value youth target audience.
of data enabled devices across our territories and remain committed The service is constantly made more appealing by the addition to achieving our stated target of 25 per cent of service revenues of new games to date more than 60 have been added to from data by the end of 2004. the arcade.
the Group launched its picture messaging service, O Media Regulation 2 Messaging, in October 2002, enabling customers to send and We conduct most of our business in the United Kingdom, Germany, receive multimedia messages incorporating pictures, sound Ireland and the Isle of Man.
We are therefore subject to national and text using specially enabled handsets.
mmO led the regulation in each of those countries as well as European Union- 2 14 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp006-021.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 15 wide regulation.
The following summary describes those regulations designation of SMP, may materially affect the nature of regulation in force, which are material to our key business activities in the to which we are subject and may affect the services we offer or countries in which we principally operate.
Due to the sale of may wish to offer in the future.
O Netherlands, this summary does not describe regulation in 2 the Netherlands.
Other regulation in the EU EU law restricts the collection, use and processing of personal data and Regulation in the EU guarantees individuals certain rights, including the right of access to European Union, or EU, legislation has a direct impact on how personal data, the right to have inaccurate data rectied and a right we are regulated in each of the countries in which we principally of recourse in the event of unlawful processing.
the right to withhold permission to use their data for direct marketing.
A new regulatory framework EU rules also regulate electronic commerce, or e-commerce, service On 14 February 2002, the European Communities adopted four providers and provide for harmonised rules on the conclusion of Directives relating to electronic communications.
These set out the contracts by electronic means.
new EU regulatory framework for electronic communications, which must be implemented in EU member states by 25 July 2003.
The key EU competition law features of the new regime are described below.
We are also subject to the general competition law of the EU and, in particular, Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty, which prohibit Removal of the requirement to hold a licence anti-competitive agreements or concerted practices and the abuse Under the new framework, telecommunications operators will of a dominant position respectively where there is an appreciable no longer require a licence to run their telecommunications effect on EU member states.
The new regime envisages a system of general authorisation a scheme of general conditions applying to all EU competition law is enforced by the European Commission, which providers of electronic communications networks and services.
can impose fines of up to 10 per cent of a groups worldwide annual turnover for breaches of Article 81 or 82.
Companies which breach significant market power EU competition law may also be sued in national courts by third In addition operators will be obliged to comply with specic parties which suffer loss as a result of the breach.
As of 1 May 2004, conditions, where they have significant market power or SMP in as part of EU Competition law procedural reform, there will be joint a particular market.
SMP, for these purposes, has been aligned to enforcement of the rules governing restrictive practices by the the competition law concept of dominance, which essentially European Commission, the national competition authorities and the means an ability to act independently of customers, suppliers and national courts.
Market shares above 40 per cent usually raise concerns The European Commission is currently conducting an inquiry into as to dominance.
competition in the market for mobile roaming services in the European National regulators will decide whether operators have SMP in Economic Area, or the EEA.
The investigation is continuing and no any relevant market either alone or jointly by means of a market conclusions have yet been reached.
If the European Commission review.
The markets to be reviewed by national regulators in this nds that there have been infringements of Articles 81 and or 82, way have already been identied in a European Commission it could ne infringing operators.
Action could also ultimately be Recommendation, although national regulators may add to these taken to force certain operators to reduce their wholesale and retail in certain circumstances.
The three mobile markets, which have charges for roaming or to change the way in which such charges been identied by the European Commission, are: access and are set or regulated.
call origination on public mobile telephone networks, voice call termination on individual mobile networks and the wholesale Infrastructure sharing and national roaming national market for international roaming on public mobile networks.
We have entered into 3G  and national roaming agreements with T-Mobile in the UK and Germany, to which Article Where an operator is found to have SMP on any market, the 81 of the EC Treaty may apply.
The agreements were formally regulator must impose an SMP condition on it.
The SMP condition notied to the European Commission for clearance or exemption.
may require the operator to comply with one or more of the The European Commission approved the UK arrangements on following obligations: transparency: non-discrimination: accounting 30 April 2003. separation: access: and price control and cost accounting.
In exceptional circumstances, a regulator may impose additional or Regulation in the United Kingdom alternative obligations, but these have to be approved by the Implementation of the EU regulatory framework European Commission.
The new EU regulatory framework for electronic communications As national regulators have not yet completed their market reviews, is due to be implemented into UK law by the Communications Act they have not yet decided whether we have SMP on any markets or alternatively by statutory instrument by 25 July 2003.
Under in any member states in which we operate and, if so, which SMP the Communications Act, responsibility for the regulation of conditions should be imposed on us.
The new regulatory framework electronic communications networks and services will lie with the and, in particular, the outcomes of the market reviews, and any Ofce of Communications OFCOM, which will replace the Ofce www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 16 Business review of Telecommunications OFTEL, the Radiocommunications Agency, involved in the provision of our mobile telecommunications services, the Independent Television Commission, the Broadcasting Standards our paging services and our Airwave services.
Commission and the Radio Authority.
National roaming Market reviews We have reached agreement with Hutchison 3G to permit them to In preparation for implementation of the new regulatory framework, use our second generation network to originate and terminate calls OFTEL is currently conducting market reviews of two of the three to and from its subscribers whilst it builds its own UMTS network.
mobile markets identied in the Commissions Recommendation Network access and interconnection access and origination, and call termination.
The consultation Under the current regulatory regime, we and Vodafone must document for OFTELs access and origination market review was provide interconnection on non-discriminatory and transparent published on 11 April 2003, and proposes that mobile operators terms.
In the new regime all operators of a public electronic should not be designated as having SMP.
If this position is confirmed, communications network whether or not they have SMP will have among other things, this would entail the lifting of the requirements the right and the obligation to negotiate interconnection with each to meet requests for interconnection and not to show undue other.
In addition, access obligations can be imposed on operators preference or discrimination in the supply of wholesale services found to have SMP following a market review.
The Communications provided over public mobile networks i. e. services sold and Bill also provides for access related obligations to be imposed on purchased by communications providers rather than end-users.
non-SMP operators to secure efficiency, sustainable competition On 15 May 2003 Oftel published its market review relating to mobile and the greatest possible benefit to end-users.
wholesale voice calls terminating on individual mobile networks.
As a result of this, the Director General of Telecommunications has Infrastructure sharing formed an initial view that each mobile network operator in the UK We have entered into an agreement with T-Mobile in relation to has significant market power in a separate market for voice call infrastructure sharing and seamless national roaming in the UK.
termination on its network and can be expected to have market This agreement is subject to competition rules and was formally power for at least the next three years.
It is proposed by the Director notied to the European Commission for clearance or exemption.
that in addition to a one off 15 per cent cut to be implemented by The European Commission approved the UK arrangements on 25 July 2003 by all four mobile operators us, Vodafone, T-Mobile 30 April 2003. and Orange, we and Vodafone should be subject to further Call termination successive reductions in real terms which amount to an annual The charges we make to other operators for terminating calls on our reduction of 15 per cent for each of the remaining three years to network termination charges are currently subject to a price cap 31 March 2006 16 per cent for T-Mobile and Orange.
This broadly which reduces charges by 9 per cent each year after allowing for an follows the recommendations of the Competition Commission.
increase in such charges equal to the increase in the relevant year in The Director is seeking comments by 24 July 2003.
If these the UK Retail Price Index RPI.
successive reductions are implemented, this will cause an additional reduction in the revenues we receive from termination charges over Following a year-long investigation, the Competition Commission the coming years.
has published a report recommending that all operators reduce their termination charges by 15 per cent in real terms before 25 July 2003.
Telecommunications licences The report also recommended that in each of the next three financial When the new regulatory framework is implemented, the years that each mobile network operator in the UK should reduce requirement to hold a licence to run a telecommunications their charges.
The Director General of Telecommunications proposal network will be removed.
Until that date, the running of a mobile in his market review of 15 May 2003 see above under Market telecommunications network will continue to require a licence under Reviews is broadly in line with the Competition Commission.
Oftel is the Telecommunications Act 1984.
We hold licences under that Act planning to impose the initial price reduction on 24 July 2003.
As the to operate a mobile telecommunications network, for the provision new EU regulatory framework will come into effect on 25 July 2003, of radio paging services and for providing the Airwave service to the licence condition imposing this price cap will fall away on that emergency services.
However, we expect that it will be replaced immediately with Frequency licences a new price cap under the new regulatory framework.
If the Director The operation of a mobile telecommunications network also requires General of Telecommunications proposal for further successive a frequency licence under the Wireless Telegraphy Acts and this reductions is implemented, this will cause a further reduction in the obligation will continue under the new EU regulatory framework.
revenues we receive from termination charges see above under We have such licences for the frequencies necessary to run our GSM Market Reviews.
Judicial proceedings are currently pending in relation network and also hold one of five Wireless Telegraphy Acts licences to the Competition Commission report.
If the report is overturned on for UMTS spectrum.
Our licence for UMTS spectrum obliges us to the basis of irrationality, unreasonableness or procedural unfairness, roll-out our third generation network so that it covers 80 per cent then legal precedent suggests that we would obtain the benefit of any of the UK population by 31 December 2007. general favourable decision and any consequent change in regulation.
We also hold Wireless Telegraphy Acts licences in relation to our GSM gateways allocation of radio spectrum and the use of stations and equipment The Radiocommunications Agency is currently investigating GSM 16 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp006-021.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 17 gateways devices tted to a phone network that monitor calls from on 11 March 2003 the Government published revised plans on xed telephones to mobile phones which automatically select the how public bodies should access information records under the cheapest tariff for the call.
Third parties have complained that action RIPA as well as how data should be retained by communications should be taken to permit the use of these devices for business service providers under the Anti-Terrorism Crime and Security Act customers.
The Radiocommunications Agency is expected to report 2001.
Among the proposals is a safeguard where access to certain on this issue later this year.
types of information such as itemised telephone call records is granted only after prior approval by a judicial independent third Planning, health and environmental measures party.
In May 2000, the Independent Expert Group on Mobile Phones, under the Chairmanship of Sir William Stewart, published its report, Regulation in Germany known as the Stewart Report, into mobile phones and health.
In a Implementation of the EU regulatory framework document published by the Department of Health on the same day Until the new framework has been implemented, the German the Government accepted many of the recommendations of the Telecommunications Act will continue to govern the award of Stewart Report.
The Department of Health also published guidelines licences for the conduct of certain telecommunications activities and the in December 2000 recommending that the widespread use of mobile allocation of frequencies.
The German telecommunications regulator phones by children under the age of 16 should be discouraged for RegTP, supported by other government bodies, has powers under non-essential calls.
We, together with the other mobile operators in the the German Telecommunications Act to regulate these matters.
United Kingdom, have committed ourselves to addressing these various community concerns and have given ten commitments to that end.
The German Ministry for Economy and Employment has published first drafts for a new Telecommunications Act to incorporate the Data protection new EU regulatory framework into German law, but the new We are subject to data protection and privacy rules that limit the Telecommunications Act is not expected to be in force before way in which we can process and use our customers personal data.
In particular, we can only use this data for marketing purposes if we have the consent of our customer to do so.
Market reviews RegTP has not yet commenced any market reviews under the new Competition Act 1998 regulatory framework.
It is expected that the market reviews will We are subject to UK competition law which is set out in the follow shortly after the new Telecommunications Act comes into Competition Act 1998.
This mirrors the provisions of EU competition force around 1 January 2004. law, prohibiting anti-competitive agreements or concerted practices and the abuse of a dominant position in the UK.
Telecommunications and frequency licences We currently hold the necessary licences with nationwide coverage The Competition Act is enforced by the Director General of Fair which, together with our frequency licences, authorise us to run Trading, and where commercial activities connected with mobile telecommunications operations in Germany.
As in other telecommunications are concerned the Director General of EU member states, the requirement to hold a licence to run a Telecommunications.
Once the Communications Act comes into telecommunications network will be removed on implementation force, the latters responsibility will pass to OFCOM.
of the new EU regulatory framework.
As under EU law, companies which breach UK competition law can We were awarded one of four GSM licences in May 1997 by the be ned.
They can also be sued for damages by third parties who Federal Ministry of Post and Telecommunications.
Our GSM suffer loss as a result of the breach.
licence is valid until 31 December 2016.
Under our GSM licence, On 16 May 2003, the Director General of Telecommunications frequencies will be allocated to us upon request up to a specified opened investigation into us, Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile under maximum amount.
The investigation focuses on whether the We hold one of six licences awarded for use of UMTS spectrum.
prices we charge certain retail business customers for calls to mobiles This licence is valid until 31 December 2020.
RegTP may revoke our could be discriminatory, or represent a margin squeeze, when compared licences in certain circumstances, including breaches of the obligations to the wholesale prices charged to other operators.
If the Director in our licences or under the German Telecommunications Act.
General of Telecommunications ultimately nds against us then we could be required to alter our prices, could be ned, and could be Our UMTS licence obliges us to roll-out our third generation network liable to third parties for damages.
so that it covers at least 25 per cent of the population by the end of 2003 and 50 per cent of the population by the end of 2005.
Interception of communications The Regulation of Investigatory powers Act 2000 RIPA regulates National roaming the use of a range of investigatory powers by a variety of public The anti-trust authorities in Germany have indicated that national authorities and updates the law on interception of communications.
roaming agreements may infringe competition laws, but that in the A Code of Practice has been issued by the Home Ofce, which case of O Germanys agreement with T-Mobile, this is unlikely to be 2 provides guidance on the procedures that can be followed before the case at least until 2004 as it considers O Germany to be a new 2 interception of communications can take under the RIPA.
However, entrant at least until this date.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 18 Business review Infrastructure sharing UMTS operators in Germany in establishing an information sharing On 5 June 2001, RegTP announced that it would interpret licence body.
We, in common with other telecommunications infrastructure conditions to permit network co-operation and infrastructure sharing.
providers in Germany, rely on rights of way to allow us to install and The infrastructure we will be able to share in Germany includes radio maintain our infrastructure.
The constitutionality of these rights of base stations as well as antennas.
Infrastructure sharing agreements way is disputed.
All holders of telecommunications licences have remain subject to national or European competition rules.
automatic rights of way over public land.
In so far as private landowners are concerned, our rights of way are more limited.
We have entered into an agreement with T-Mobile in relation to 3G infrastructure sharing and national roaming in Germany.
This Competition law is subject to competition rules and was formally notied to the We are subject to German competition law, which is set out in the European Commission for clearance or exemption.
We expect a decision act governing restraints of competition.
This legislation is broadly from the Commission in relation to this agreement later this year.
similar to EU competition law and prohibits anti-competitive agreements and concerted practices and the abuse of a dominant Network access and interconnection position.
Both RegTP and the Federal Cartel Ofce both regulate Under the existing regulatory regime, RegTP may determine the competition in Germany.
The Federal Cartel Ofce has in the terms on which interconnection is provided if operators are unable past refrained from initiating proceedings where RegTP is dealing to reach commercial agreement between themselves in a reasonable with a case.
None of the mobile network operators is yet obliged to grant another carrier interconnection to its network on nonRegulation in Ireland discriminatory or cost-oriented terms.
Implementation of the EU regulatory framework Price regulation The new EU regulatory framework will be implemented into Irish We are not currently subject to price regulation and we will law by statutory instrument.
The Department of Communications, not be subject to price regulation under the new German Marine and Natural Resources have now completed a public consultation Telecommunications Act or new EU regulatory framework on the draft statutory instruments and the Department expect the unless we are designated as having SMP in any market.
adopted Regulations to be brought into force prior to 25 July 2003.
Number portability and carrier selection Until then, the operation of mobile telecommunications networks Telecommunications carriers are obliged, by virtue of the German and the provision of mobile telephony services in Ireland continues Telecommunications Act, to provide number portability.
to be regulated under the Postal and Telecommunications Services Act 1983 as amended, or Irish Postal and Telecommunications Act, Telecommunications carriers are also under an obligation under the and the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1926 as amended, or Irish German Telecommunications Act to offer carrier preselection Wireless Telegraphy Act.
which may be overridden by a carrier selection prex each time a call is made, also referred to as call-by-call.
On 1 December 2002, under the Communications Regulation Act 2002 the Act, a new regulatory body was established for Service providers the regulation of the communications sector in Ireland.
This Other mobile telecommunications operators are required to allow new three-person regulatory body, known as the Commission service providers to market their GSM services.
There is, however, no for Communications Regulation ComReg replaces the Ofce such requirement in our GSM licence.
As a consequence, we market of the Director of Telecommunications Regulation ODTR.
A claim has been led against us with the civil courts by the service provider Debitel, stating that we have Market reviews a statutory obligation under the Telecommunications Customer In preparation for the implementation of the new EU regulatory Protection Ordinance to permit service providers to market our GSM framework, ComReg is currently collecting data to carry out market services.
If Debitel succeeds in its claim before the civil courts, we will analysis of the communications sector including mobile operators.
be obliged to grant them, and subsequently other service providers, The data collection process concluded on 14 April 2003 and a the ability to market our services.
Our UMTS licence obliges us to consultation document outlining its findings will be issued in the permit service providers to market our UMTS services once they next few months with a decision expected in September 2003. become available.
Telecommunications licences Data protection We have been granted licences necessary to provide mobile We are subject to data protection regulations in Germany and we telecommunications services and systems in Ireland.
The term of believe that we are in compliance with these regulations.
We are our current mobile telecommunications licences are 15 years from currently dealing with the Federal Data Protection Ofce on certain commencement, which for GSM 900 band is 16 May 1996, and in matters that were raised by an audit.
respect of services provided in the GSM 1800 band is 1 January 2000.
As in other EU member states, the requirement to hold a licence to Planning, health and environmental run a telecommunications network will be removed under the new In order to address public concerns about any alleged health and EU regulatory framework.
environmental risks of increased electromagnetic emissions from our infrastructure, we have collaborated with the other mobile and 18 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp006-021.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 19 Frequency licences Data protection In addition to mobile telecommunications licences, we hold We are subject to data protection regulations in Ireland.
The EU Irish Wireless Telegraphy Act licences that permit us to use Directive relating to data protection is expected to be transposed apparatus and radio spectrum in the operation of our mobile into EU law around October 2003.
This will impose stricter telecommunications networks.
Our Irish Wireless Telegraphy conditions on the collection, use and processing of personal data Act licence is renewed annually.
It will also impose notication obligations on us.
We also hold from time to time a large number of radio link Competition Act 2002 licences granted by the DTR which authorise the use of mobile In addition to EU competition law, we are also subject to Irish telegraphy apparatus for the purpose of establishing radio links competition law which is set out in the Competition Act 2002 between transmission stations we operate.
These radio link this Act replaces the previous Competition Acts of 1991 and 1996. licences are renewed regularly.
This legislation is modelled on EU competition law.
It prohibits anti-competitive agreements and arrangements and the abuse of On 2 October 2002, we were awarded a UMTS licence as a result a dominant position, which affect trade in any goods or services of the comparative process beauty contest run by ComReg to in Ireland or in a substantial part of Ireland.
Our licence includes minimum requirements of 33 per cent demographic coverage to be fullled by the end of Regulation in the Isle of Man June 2006 and 53 per cent demographic coverage to be fullled The Isle of Man is a self-governing Crown Dependency with its by the end of June 2008.
The total licence fee is 114 million own parliament and is not part of the United Kingdom or the EU.
Accordingly, Manx legislation and regulations predominantly govern As a precondition to entering the UMTS licensing process, we have our operations in the Isle of Man.
committed to the provision of national roaming facilities for five years Telecommunications licences on our network for new entrant UMTS licensees who meet minimum Our principal licence relating to our xed network operations in roll-out requirements.
Pursuant to this obligation, we are in detailed the Isle of Man, or the Fixed Licence, was issued on 27 June 1986 discussions with Hutchison 3G Ireland Limited in respect of the and came into force on 1 January 1987.
It continues in force until potential implementation of 2G national roaming between our networks.
Our principal licence relating to our mobile Network access and interconnection network operations in the Isle of Man, or the Mobile Licence, Under the existing regulatory regime, we and Vodafone have been was issued on 28 October 1994.
The Mobile Licence expires on designated as having SMP in the mobile telephony market and the 31 December 2006.
Our current GSM mobile network is operated national market for interconnection in Ireland.
Accordingly, we are under the Mobile Licence and the Isle of Man Communications obliged to adhere to principles of non-discrimination and transparency Commission has consented to our proposed UMTS service also being in relation to interconnection offered to third parties and may not operated pursuant to the Mobile Licence.
In addition, we also unreasonably refuse access to our network.
These obligations will benefit from certain other licences granted under applicable Manx be reviewed on implementation of the new regulatory framework.
legislation in relation to paging, satellite and internet services.
We are subject to retail price restrictions and charge reviews by the Accounting separation Isle of Man Communications Commission under our licences.
Our ComReg is currently consulting on the possible imposition of an Fixed Licence also requires us to publish the terms and conditions accounting separation obligation on SMP mobile operators, namely on which offers of certain telecommunications services are made.
A response on that consultation process 2 was expected in January 2003 but has yet to be issued by ComReg.
Mobile network services and spectrum allocation We have been granted Wireless Telegraphy Acts licences by the Number portability UK Radiocommunications Agency that permit us to establish The three mobile operators have agreed with ComReg to introduce and use stations and apparatus for mobile transmissions in the full mobile number portability in July 2003. operation of our mobile networks.
On 19 February 2001 the Indirect access Radiocommunications Agency granted us a Schedule for Third In July 2000, the DTR published a paper entitled The Regulatory Generation Mobile Services, renewed annually, and we will operate Framework for Access in the Mobile Market, or the Access Paper, our proposed UMTS network pursuant to this Schedule and the which sets out views on the regulatory issues associated with indirect 1994 Mobile Licence referred to above.
According to ComReg, mobile operators with SMP Independent review of telecommunications regulation in the mobile market currently Vodafone and us are obliged to The Isle of Man Communications Commission has commissioned negotiate interconnection with qualifying operators.
In addition, a report from a rm of independent consultants on the future mobile operators that have been designated as having SMP in the regulatory policy that should be adopted in the Isle of Man.
The report, national market for interconnection currently Vodafone and us published on 12 July 2001, recommended that competition be must provide interconnection on a cost-oriented basis.
ComReg has gradually introduced in respect of certain services, that negotiations indicated that it may consider undertaking further consultation on should commence with Manx Telecom for a new 15-year licence for carrier preselection for mobile networks.
the period after 2006 and that new legislation be introduced to www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 20 Business review strengthen the powers of the Communications Commission, to The Group had the equivalent of 12,476 full-time employees introduce an interconnection regime based on the EU model and at 31 March 2003, as set forth by country in the table below: to introduce a system of tariff controls.
The Communications Country Number of employees Commission has welcomed the recommendations of the report and United Kingdom 6,759 begun negotiations with Manx Telecom regarding a new licence.
Germany 3,416 Netherlands 710 Ireland 1,317 Key markets and employees Isle of Man 274 Europe includes some of the most advanced markets for mobile Total 12,476 services in the world.
These markets are characterised by relatively high mobile penetration rates and revenues per customer and are For the year ended 31 March 2003, the aggregate number of amongst the leading markets for the emergence of mobile data temporary staff employed by our businesses was 2,420. services.
These markets are also characterised by high population density and GDP per capita.
Across Western Europe, the proportion In the United Kingdom, a number of our employees are represented of total voice trafc carried over mobile rather than xed-line by two labour unions: Connect, which has representation rights networks continues to increase.
These markets are also seeing an in respect of management employees and the Communications increasing proportion of mobile revenues attributable to mobile data Workers Union, which has representation rights in respect of clerical, services and we expect this trend to continue.
Membership of these unions is individual and voluntary.
In addition, a non-unionised employee Our mobile businesses cover two of the largest markets in Europe, representative body represents certain managers.
Our other operating with the UK and German markets giving us access to a total businesses also meet with their employee representative bodies, or population of over 143 million people.
All our markets have seen works councils, regularly.
We believe that our businesses have a growth over the last few years in the number of mobile telephone good relationship with our employees and their representatives.
users, in large part reecting strong demand for competitively priced pre-pay offerings.
Our markets are seeing the emergence of Approximately 67 per cent of our permanent employees are additional wholesale opportunities for network operators.
Through covered by collective bargaining agreements.
These agreements wholesale agreements, network operators are able to sell capacity are kept under review, with changes being made through and services on a large scale to other service providers and mobile discussion with the relevant representative body as required.
Network and service platform technology Historically, the number of customer connections to mobile Last year we launched a major initiative to build a common telephone networks in the markets where we are present has been infrastructure to support the development of services and greater during the second half of the financial year than during applications across our networks.
The deployment of a common the first half, primarily due to increased sales during the Christmas network architecture will be essential to bring economies of scale, period.
See Operating and Financial Review and Prospects support pan-European services and enable tailoring for local market Factors Affecting Our Business.
As part of this process we implemented common service enabling platforms across our four key businesses, which The table below presents selected data regarding the principal allow new applications to be swiftly rolled-out across these networks countries in Europe in which our businesses operate.
Due to the sale without requiring costly and time-consuming redevelopment.
of O2 Netherlands, this table does not present data for that business.
Information technology 1 Mobile customers mmO The exibility and functionality of our information systems will 2 penetration customers be critical to our strategy and to the successful operation of our at 31 March at 31 March 1 Population 2003 2003 businesses.
We are currently reliant on a wide range of systems, Country in millions % in 000s partly as a result of the speed of growth in the mobile market, Germany 83 69 4,812 but also as a result of our acquisitions of retailers and service United Kingdom 60 85 12,050 providers.
In addition, our customer base has expanded rapidly.
Ireland 4 81 1,255 During the year O UK signed an agreement with IBM to deliver 2 Total 147 18,117 world-class customer service and business support capability for 1 Source: EMC Worldwide Cellular Database, May 2003. voice, text and mobile internet markets.
Intellectual property BT transferred to us its interest in certain software and other materials attracting copyright that were used exclusively in connection with our businesses and which those businesses originally funded.
BT has transferred to us all of its rights in certain trademarks and domain names used exclusively in our UK businesses, except that BT has retained rights in trademarks and domain names previously used in our business which comprise 20 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp006-021.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 21 names and logos that relate to the BT Group, such as BT and BTs full-piper and half-piper logos.
BT has retained ownership of all other intellectual property rights used in our UK businesses which have not been transferred to us and which are not already owned by us.
We have a limited non-exclusive royalty-free licence from BT, for the operation of our worldwide businesses, to continue to use any and all patents, copyright, unregistered design rights, database rights and know-how.
In May 2002, we introduced a single new customer brand, O.
We have actively taken steps to protect the new brand, including 2 the acquisition of core trademark registrations in O brand and 2 related brand materials.
In addition, we have other pending national and European Community trademark applications in ancillary classes.
We are aware that various third parties use O or similar brands in 2 connection with other goods and services.
We have entered into agreements with some such third parties, which permit the brands to co-exist.
These agreements contain some restrictions on use of our brand, but we do not believe that these restrictions conict with our business model or day-to-day activities.
It is not our intention to trade under the O brand in the United States, where our securities 2 trade under the mmO plc name.
We have also acquired a range of 2 domain names, including the core domains of mmo2.
We have applied for patent protection relating to technology used in our HomeZone service.
The HomeZone service is one of our products marketed in Germany under the Genion name.
A third party owns two patents which cover the technology used in the HomeZone service.
To date, this third party has not sought to challenge our patent applications or prevent us from using the HomeZone technology.
We believe that it is unlikely to take any such action in the future.
However, if that third party sought successfully to do so, we might have to stop using the HomeZone technology.
Insurance We maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which our Group operates, including coverage for employee-related accidents and injuries and property damage.
We consider our insurance coverage and that of our operating businesses to be adequate both as to the nature of the risks covered and amounts insured for the business conducted by us.
