Business review Bob Baty : Chief Executive : South West Water Limited South West Water has maintained its improvement in services to customers whilst delivering further sound financial performance and additional efficiencies.
In the drive to achieve further efficiencies, the South West Water Limited benefit of three new recently launched major The companys turnover increased by 3.8% management information systems is being from 260.4 million to 270.2 million primarily realised in the areas of asset management, reflecting the impact of the tariff increase human resources and customer service approved by the Director General of Water management.
Services, together with 7,300 new customer Despite the regulatory pressure to reduce connections.
operational expenditure, first class levels of Operating costs including depreciation charges product and customer service have remained increased by 5.3 million to 158.7 million, key company objectives.
Independent market including 7.4 million for the operation of new research carried out amongst South West capital schemes and efficiency savings of Waters customers continues to confirm high 4.5 million.
levels of satisfaction with the overall service provided by the company, which is also Operating profit rose by 4.5 million to continuing its generally good performance 111.5 million.
During the year a further 22,000 against Ofwats prescribed Levels of Service customers switched to a measured charging Indicators.
Plentiful supplies of high quality basis compared to 23,300 the previous year and drinking water are an absolute priority for this produced an adverse impact on operating customers and, as a direct result of careful profit of 5.0 million.
planning and capital expenditure, the regions water storage, treatment and distribution A restructuring and continuous improvement infrastructure has been progressively and programme designed to significantly reduce significantly enhanced over the years.
overhead and operating costs was introduced some four years ago.
Its successful delivery is There have been no water restrictions since ensuring South West Water continues to 1996 and the companys innovative and industry outperform the demanding operational and leading leakage detection and reduction capital efficiency targets imposed by Ofwat and programme continues to deliver results in line is on track to continue to do so for the with the mandatory leakage target set by Ofwat.
remainder of the current regulatory period K3, 2000 2005.
South West Waters track record in the area of efficiency savings is excellent and since 1995 cost reductions totalling 41.9 million have been achieved.
4 Pennon Group Plc Planned expenditure on water mains renovation In tandem with providing environmental during the K3 period will be in the order of benefits, the programme is enabling much 120 million with the length of mains scheduled needed commercial and residential property for improvement more than double that development to continue and contribute towards achieved in the K2 period 1995 2000.
400 kilometres of water mains were laid, Capital expenditure for the year increased by replaced or refurbished during the year 13.9 million to 181.5 million with 67.0 million compared with 260 kilometres the previous invested in water supply improvements year.
Improvements in water supply have been including water mains renovation, water matched with improvements to water quality treatment works enhancement and leakage and during the year the company achieved its control.
Waste water services investment highest ever drinking water compliance level of expenditure was 114.5 million of which 99.92% with the quality standards set by the 64.5 million was invested in the companys Drinking Water Inspectorate.
Clean Sweep bathing water programme Progress has also been made in the area of which is nearing completion.
waste water treatment and disposal.
South A dedicated team within South West Water is West Waters massive coastal waste water managing the companys Periodic Review treatment programme, Clean Sweep, was a submission for the K4 period 2005 2010. vital factor in the region achieving the best ever South West Water will seek an outcome from bathing water quality results for beaches and Ofwat which strikes a realistic balance between bathing waters along the West Country investment and affordability and which benefits coastline.
Over 98% of the regions 140 bathing all the companys key stakeholders.
waters regularly monitored by the Environment Agency complied with EU mandatory standards.
The results also confirmed a major increase in the number of bathing waters meeting the more stringent EU guideline standards almost 85% compared with 71% the previous year.
Inland waste water treatment works are also being updated and modernised as part of a rolling programme to ensure compliance with demanding environmental standards and the companys investment helped the region record more miles of high quality rivers than any other region in England.
Pennon Group Plc 5 Business review Colin Drummond : Chief Executive : Viridor Waste Limited Viridor Waste delivered further growth both organically and by acquisition.
In 2002 03 Viridor Waste made three more Viridor Waste Limited acquisitions.
In April it bought Richardson Viridor Waste made continued excellent Limited for 11.9 million.
This company, now progress within its focused strategy of: renamed Viridor Richardson Limited, is the UKs leading reprocessor of flat glass from windows, capitalising on its strong position in landfill windscreens and architectural uses.
It is disposal: headquartered in St Helens, Lancashire, with a network of depots throughout the country.
exploiting opportunities in landfill gas power Government targets require substantial generation in line with the Governments target increases in glass recycling and Viridor Wastes of increasing the proportion of electricity activities elsewhere in the country are providing generated from renewable sources: and Viridor Richardson with access to further pursuing profitable opportunities arising from supplies of glass.
In July, Viridor Waste bought the Governments developing waste Roseland Plant Co. Limited for 8.9 million.
addition to its collection and recycling operations, this company owns a large landfill Financial performance was significantly ahead of with planning permission in Cornwall, an area of the previous year which itself showed strong increasing shortage of waste disposal capacity growth assisted by one-off gains.
Turnover at and with significant synergies with Viridor 152.3 million was 21.5% up on the previous Wastes other operations in the West Country.
Operating profit before goodwill The landfill will be opened in due course when amortisation at 19.1 million was 25.7% up.
site licencing has been completed.
In October, Profit before tax, after taking account of Viridor Waste bought Parkwood Holdings goodwill amortisation and interest costs Limited for 20.6 million.
This company, now associated with recent acquisitions, was up renamed Viridor Parkwood Holdings Limited, is a 5.2% to 14.2 million.
This financial Sheffield-based landfill, transfer station, liquid performance was achieved despite generally waste treatment and recycling operation.
These tough market conditions and reflects the activities tie in well with the strategy outlined success of Viridor Wastes strategy.
above and have good synergies with Viridor Wastes existing operation at Erin in Derbyshire.
The previous years acquisitions, The Suffolk In total these three acquisitions were already Waste Disposal Company Limited, now earnings enhancing before goodwill in 2002 03, renamed Viridor Waste Suffolk Limited, and at least a year earlier than projected at the time Lavelle & Sons Limited, are now fully integrated of acquisition.
They were earnings enhancing both before goodwill amortisation, as After the year end, Viridor Waste completed the forecast at the time of acquisition, and after acquisition of Churngold Holdings Limited, a goodwill amortisation.
waste recycling and transfer station business, for 19.7 million.
The acquisition complements Viridor Wastes existing activities in the South West and in Scotland.
6 Pennon Group Plc Viridor Wastes total consented landfill void is Total recycling volumes increased from now 80 million cubic metres compared to 73 33 thousand tonnes kt to 183kt, through million cubic metres at the previous year end.
acquisitions, as the company continues to seek This increase arose from the acquisitions within profitable opportunities arising from the the year, which brought an additional 6.2 million Governments developing waste management cubic metres and planning gains amounting to strategy.
Composting volumes of green waste in 5.1 million cubic metres, offset by usage during the year increased to 35kt from 21kt in 2001 02. the year of 4.3 million cubic metres.
Total landfill Viridor Waste sees sustainability as key to its disposal volumes for the year, excluding cover, overall business and sets a high store by its increased by 9% to 3.5 million tonnes.
Excluding environmental and social policies.
These are the effect of last years non-recurring items and covered more fully in Pennons annual last and this years acquisitions, volumes Environmental and Social Report.
Viridor Waste remains is pleased to report that ISO 14001 accreditation confident that landfill will be the key final waste was gained by Viridor Richardson and Viridor disposal route for the UK for the medium term.
After the end of the financial The series of measures taken by the Government year, Viridor Wastes Warmwell site was over the past five years to encourage recycling awarded the Peel Peoples Cup by the Chartered and minimise the amount of waste going to final Institute of Wastes Management for the best disposal can be expected to slow the growth in run landfill in the UK.
This is the third time in the total volumes going to landfill.
However, with a past five years that a Viridor Waste site has won waste industry average of only around six years this award.
remaining landfill life in the UK according to the Having reviewed practices in the waste industry, Environment Agencys estimates and new Pennon Group is putting in place a defined planning permissions being increasingly difficult to achieve, Viridor Wastes 80 million cubic contribution scheme for employees from metres of consented void space is expected to recently acquired waste companies and new entrants to Viridor Waste from 1 July 2003.
In become an increasingly valuable resource.
many instances this will be an enhancement of Total power generation capacity increased from their current position.
Profit growth in 2003 04 28 MW to 37 MW in line with Viridor Wastes will be reduced because of the introduction of policy of exploiting its landfill gas for generation the defined contribution scheme and increased of electricity and benefiting from premium prices funding costs for the defined benefit pension under the Governments system of renewable scheme.
However, this change will reduce obligation certificates ROCs.
Again, Viridor Viridor Wastes exposure to any further adverse Waste is exploiting the scarcity value of its asset movements in the defined benefit scheme base.
With a Government target of 10% of funding position.
electricity to be generated from renewable In the longer term Viridor Waste is well placed sources by the end of the decade compared to 3% currently, Viridor Waste expects this to deliver continued steady profit growth with its element of its business to continue to increase.
Pennon Group Plc 7 Business review The management of change, involving both the Employees Group and work practices, continues to Highly skilled, well motivated employees are influence the wide range of training and essential to the continued success of the development programmes offered by the Group.
Pennon Group, which supports them with the An Investors in People IIP award was made infrastructure, technology and opportunity to to South West Water three years ago in perform at the highest levels.
recognition of the people management processes employed by the company and it will A number of well established and proven be applying for IIP reaccreditation during 2003. employee communication practices are used Group-wide and include use of the Groups In order to provide its employees with a safe intranet facilities, a staff team briefing system working environment, the Group regularly and employee newspapers, Flagstaff and reviews its health and safety policy and Viridor Voice.
Also, e-communication continues performance standards and undertakes to be widely used, given the geographical innovative risk assessment and control diversity of the Group, coupled with the needs programmes.
The Groups constantly evolving of the Group to communicate quickly and health and safety strategy has helped to ensure effectively with its employees.
that considerable progress has been made towards the Groups goal to reduce the number The third survey by the Group on employee of days lost through ill health and ensure low opinions and attitudes amongst staff in Pennon levels of work-related accidents.
South West and South West Water on a variety of issues Water is progressing well towards its aim to ranging from job satisfaction to communications, reduce the number of days lost through ill health was carried out during the year.
The findings by 30% by November 2010.
The Chief indicated further improvements in staff attitudes Executive of South West Water is the and managers are focusing on those areas Programme Director for an innovative health and where even more effort needs to be safety water industry initiative known as Clear concentrated.
Viridor Waste also undertook an Water 2010.
Viridor Waste subscribes to the independent survey of communications among high profile Environmental Services staff at all levels and is acting on the information Associations Accident Reduction Charter and provided.
the companys accident rate amongst its employees is consistently below the average of Both South West Water and Viridor Waste have the waste industry as a whole.
South West Water employees elect representatives to the Staff Council which The Group operates a non-discriminatory deals with areas of interest to all staff employment policy and, in addition to its employees, both trade union and non-trade Whistleblowing and family-friendly policies, union alike.
The Viridor Waste Management continues to adapt its employment policies to Staff Association, aligned with AMICUS, the ensure full compliance with new Flexible second largest trade union in the UK, is also Working legislation although in many areas, the involved in a wide variety of staff issues, Group already offers benefits which are above including looking at a number of the statutory minimum.
8 Pennon Group Plc region having some of the finest bathing waters Caring for the environment and beaches in the UK.
The region achieved The Group plays a major role in enhancing and over 98% compliance with the EU mandatory maintaining the quality of the environment.
This standards and almost 85% compliance with the role is one of the three key goals set out in the more stringent EU guideline standards.
Environment Agency has also stated that the region has more miles of high quality rivers than The two principal operating companies within any other region in England.
South West Water the Group, South West Water and Viridor continues to remain focused on improving its Waste, perform the important task of treating performance for waste water compliance and and disposing of societys waste in a carefully additional resources have, and are being, controlled and highly engineered manner.
Both directed to this area.
companies acknowledge the importance of environmental sustainability and have taken Both South West Water and Viridor Waste measures to ensure that their operations are remain committed to achieving high undertaken in a sustainable manner which has environmental standards.
Viridor Waste has regard to their environmental impact.
For example, already achieved ISO 14001, the international South West Water recognises that its suppliers environmental management standard, at most can have a major environmental impact in the of its key sites and has a policy of gaining manner in which they conduct their business accreditation in its acquired companies as noted and has consequently adopted an environmental above.
Key functions within South West Water objective to obtain goods and services through have IS0 9001 accreditation, the international suppliers and contractors whose environmental quality management system standard, and the practices correspond with its own.
company is currently reviewing its business processes as a precursor to the introduction of a An environmental policy has been in place since formal environmental system, building on the the early days of the Groups life and is achievements of its IS0 9001 accreditation.
reviewed by the Environment Committee of the Board.
The policy aims to achieve continuous The Group is a major producer of renewable improvement in environmental performance.
Viridor Wastes capacity for power This was reflected by a further improvement in generation from landfill gas is 37 MW, while the Groups ranking in the Business in the South West Water generates the equivalent of Environment 2002 survey, with the Groups over 6.5 MW from hydro-electric and combined overall ranking rising to 55th out of 204 mainly heat and power plants.
In total, the Group FTSE 350 companies, compared to 61st out of generates the equivalent of 110% of its own 192 companies in the 2001 survey.
In line with The Renewable Obligations Order 2002, South West Water achieved its highest ever which sets the price framework to achieve the performance in drinking water compliance of Governments target of 10% of electricity 99.92% with the quality standards set by the generated from renewable energy by 2010, Drinking Water Inspectorate.
Viridor Waste has substantially increased its landfill gas generation capacity.
South West Waters coastal waste water treatment improvement programme, Clean Sweep, has been a key contributor to the Pennon Group Plc 9 Business review Construction activity associated with the Viridor Waste actively encourages its employees Groups water, sewerage and waste to become involved with the widespread local management activities can have a significant communities in which the company operates impact on the neighbourhood as well as on the and liaises regularly with interest groups around natural habitat.
The Group is committed to its landfill sites.
working closely with planners and interested As one of the few large Plcs headquartered in parties to minimise such impacts and to ensure the region, the Pennon Group recognises that it that the sites blend in with the natural has a number of social responsibilities wherever environment.
As an example of this approach, it operates, but particularly in the relatively South West Water won an award from the economically deprived region of its home Country Land and Business Association under territory, Devon and Cornwall.
their Farm and Country Buildings Award Scheme 2002 for the care in siting its Dawlish The Groups financial community involvement is waste water treatment works within a sensitive channelled through a number of initiatives: landscape.
At most landfill sites and on many construction projects, close contact continues to Charitable Donations charitable donations be maintained with the local community through made by Pennon Group amounting to 46,000 formal liaison groups to discuss and, whenever were made during the year.
These donations possible, mitigate potential problems.
This were primarily to charities operating in Devon underlines the approach of the Group in its and Cornwall, where the average size of determination to be a good neighbour.
donation of around 500 can make a significant impact on the services provided by these The Groups environmental and social organisations.
performance will be more fully reported in the Environmental and Social Report Enhancing the South West Water Community Sponsorship Environment 2003.
Programme funds amounting to 50,000 were awarded during the year across a wide range of Involvement with activities.
the community Landfill Tax Credit Scheme this Scheme allows Viridor Waste to demonstrate its The Group is committed to satisfying its commitment to environmental improvements, customers and this is another of the key goals particularly in areas near its landfill operations.
set out in the Groups mission statement.
South Since the inception of the Scheme, Viridor West Water acknowledges that understanding Waste has made a total contribution of 36.9 its customers views assists it to provide levels million to environmental bodies, which has of product and services in line with customer provided support for a wide range of expectations.
To facilitate this, South West environmental and local amenity projects across Water has carried out regular customer research the country.
Funds of 8.3 million were awarded on the quality of its services and in March 2003 in the year.
it became the first water company to provide an on-line customer consultation service.
10 Pennon Group Plc In November 2002, the Government announced Ethics changes to the Landfill Tax Credit Scheme which, with effect from 1 April 2003, resulted in To help achieve the Groups stated objectives, two thirds of the available funding generated via its aim is to establish and preserve a reputation landfill tax being removed from the Scheme and for integrity and fair dealing.
It believes that put into a programme of public spending to such a reputation is essential to the long term encourage sustainable waste management.
The well-being of the Group itself, its shareholders, remaining one third of funding will continue to employees, customers, suppliers and the be made available through a reformed Landfill community in which it operates.
Tax Credit Scheme for spending on local To facilitate these ethical employment practices, community, environmental and amenity projects.
the Group has adopted key ethical policies The actual nature of the reforms will be which are applied Group-wide.
It operates a determined by further consultation to be non-discriminatory employment policy and every undertaken during the summer of 2003.
The reasonable effort is made to ensure that no changes to the Scheme will significantly reduce current or future employee is disadvantaged the amount of contributions that will be available because of age, gender, religion, colour, ethnic in future for Viridor Waste to make to origin, marital status, sexual orientation, or environmental bodies.
Pennon Environmental Fund Committee The Group also has a Whistleblowing policy the Committee was established with the aim of which supports its approach to ethics in utilising some of Viridor Wastes landfill tax business by encouraging employees to raise in credits for the specific benefit of the West accordance with a formalised procedure, Country.
It has supported a diverse range of concerns which relate to potential unlawful environmental and community initiatives in the conduct, financial malpractice, dangers to the South West pursued by environmental bodies.
public or damage to the environment.
This policy The changes to the Landfill Tax Credit Scheme also protects employees who raise such will also significantly reduce the amount of concerns from victimisation or harassment.
funds available to the Committee to allocate next year.
South West Water Special Assistance Fund the Fund was established to provide help to customers trying to pay their water and sewerage bills but who, for reasons of severe financial or personal difficulties, were having problems paying the full amount.
Although South West Water provides administrative support to the Fund, the decisions on applications for help are made by a panel drawn from the South West Water Customer Consultative Group.
