| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 12 Business Review Description of Business Description of business different marketplaces to achieve or, where strategic decision to focus on its electricity the regulatory process permits, to better businesses in the western US.
Scottish Power plc ScottishPower is an allowed returns from regulated businesses, international energy business listed on both build sustainable value in competitive Principal business activities the New York and London Stock Exchanges.
energy markets and actively manage risk, PaciCorp is a regulated electricity company Through its operating subsidiaries, the both operational and financial.
operating in portions of the states of Utah, company serves in excess of 5 million Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and homes and businesses in the western US The strategy is delivered through four California.
PaciCorp conducts its retail and across the UK.
It provides electricity businesses, each clearly focused on its electricity utility business as Pacic Power generation, transmission, distribution and strategic priorities: and Utah Power, and engages in electricity supply services in both countries.
The PaciCorp production and sales on a wholesale basis companys US activities extend to coal Infrastructure Division under the name PaciCorp.
The subsidiaries mining and gas storage, including a gas UK Division of PaciCorp support its electricity utility facility in western Canada.
In Great Britain, PPM Energy, Inc. operations by providing coal mining facilities ScottishPower also stores and supplies gas.
and services, environmental remediation In the year to 31 March 2003, the sales In each of the US and the UK, there is one and nancing.
revenues of the continuing business of the business operating under regulation and group were 5.2 $8.3 billion.
one in competitive market conditions.
The western US wholesale energy market had substantially lower prices and was Following its creation upon privatisation in In the US, PaciCorp operates as a relatively stable during 2002 03 compared 1991, ScottishPower developed by organic regulated electricity business with significant with the previous year.
PaciCorp took a growth in the British electricity, gas and mining subsidiaries and the competitive number of actions to maintain a balanced telephony markets, through strategic energy business is PPM Energy, Inc. net energy position through the summer acquisitions in the UK and by the merger PPM.
Both are subsidiaries of PaciCorp peak period and for the remainder of the with PaciCorp in the US.
During 2001 02, Holdings, Inc. PHI a non-operating, US financial year.
A 120 megawatt MW gasthe group exited non-strategic businesses in holding company, itself an indirect whollyred peaking plant in Utah came on-line in the US and UK, demerged the UK owned subsidiary of ScottishPower.
PHI is August 2002 and, in May 2002, PaciCorp telecommunications and internet business, also the parent company of PaciCorp also entered into an operating lease Thus, to the companys shareholders and, in Group Holdings which owns the shares of arrangement with PPM for the 200 MW April 2002, sold the UK water and subsidiaries not regulated as domestic West Valley peaking plant, also in Utah.
wastewater company, Southern Water, electricity providers, including PaciCorp These actions, as well as the use of other thereby concluding the process of redening Financial Services, Inc. PFS, in order to exible physical and financial hedging ScottishPower as an international energy facilitate the further separation of the instruments, assisted PaciCorp in business.
In 2002 03, ScottishPower has companys non-utility operations in the US maintaining a balanced energy position over focused on its strategic aim of becoming a from the regulated US business, PaciCorp.
In the UK, the regulated Infrastructure Retail electricity sales Strategic context Division operates electricity transmission PaciCorp serves approximately 1.5 million ScottishPowers strategy is to become a and distribution subsidiaries of the whollyretail customers in service territories leading international energy company, owned UK holding company Scottish Power aggregating about 136,000 square miles in managing both regulated and competitive UK plc SPUK.
Other subsidiaries portions of six western states.
The businesses in the US and the UK to serve operating in the now competitive UK energy geographical distribution of PaciCorps electricity and gas customers.
The regulated markets comprise the groups competitive retail electricity operating revenues for the businesses provide a base for steady growth energy business, the UK Division, covering year ended 31 March 2003 was Utah, 39%: through consistent investment and proven its British Isles generation assets, Oregon, 32%: Wyoming, 13%: Washington, skills in operational and regulatory commercial and energy management 8%: Idaho, 6%: and California, 2%.
In competitive activities in activities and energy supply business units.
PaciCorp service areas diverse regional which the group has local market economy mitigates exposure to economic knowledge and skill advantages, it seeks to PaciCorp swings.
In the eastern portion of the service enhance margins through the integration of area, customer demand peaks in the generation, energy management and In November 1999, PaciCorp and summer when irrigation and cooling customer services, again underpinned by ScottishPower completed a merger under systems are heavily used mainly in Utah best-in-class operational performance.
The which PaciCorp became an indirect and eastern Idaho.
The principal industries aim is to deliver steady growth in earnings subsidiary of ScottishPower.
As a result of are mining and extracting coal, oil, natural per share by capitalising on the the merger, PaciCorp developed and gas, uranium and oil shale.
In the western opportunities afforded by strong positions in commenced its Transition Plan to part of the service territory, mainly both the US and UK markets, organising the implement significant organisational and consisting of Oregon and southeastern skills and resources deployed in these operational changes arising from the Washington, customer demand peaks in the | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 13 winter months due to space heating water conditions, PaciCorp would expect emissions, cost recovery and economic requirements and the economy generally that approximately 60% and 5% of its conditions.
Costs incurred by PaciCorp to revolves around agriculture and energy requirements for 2003 04 would be provide a service to its customers are manufacturing, with pulp and paper, lumber supplied by its thermal and hydro-electric expected to be included as allowable costs and wood products, food processing and plants, respectively, the remaining 35% for ratemaking purposes.
However, there high technology being the principal being obtained through purchase can be no assurance that these costs will industries.
During 2002 03, no single retail arrangements.
PaciCorp will make use of be fully recovered through the regulatory customer accounted for more than 2% of existing long-term purchase contracts, and process.
PaciCorps retail electricity revenues and will choose appropriate cost-effective the 20 largest retail customers accounted resources to meet the balance of its Wholesale sales and purchased electricity for 13% of total retail electricity revenues.
customer demand through short-term In addition to its base of thermal, renewable Trends in energy sales by class of customer purchase arrangements.
and hydro-electric generation assets, are set out in Tables 3, 5 and 6 page 31.
PaciCorp uses a mix of long-term and At 31 March 2003, PaciCorp had 196 short-term rm purchases and non-rm Retail energy sales for PaciCorp have million tons of recoverable coal reserves that purchases to meet its load obligations and grown at a compound annual rate of 0.9% are mined by PaciCorp or its mining to make sales to other energy providers.
since 1997: however, for 2002 03, afliates and are dedicated to nearby PaciCorp enters into wholesale purchase megawatt hour MWh sales decreased PaciCorp-operated generation plants.
See and sale transactions to provide hedges approximately 1.2%.
Adjusting for the Table 2 page 30.
During 2002 03, these against periods of variable generation or impact of weather, the loads for both mines supplied approximately one-third of variable retail load.
Generation varies with 2002 03 and 2001 02 were relatively at, PaciCorps total coal requirements.
Coal is the level of outages or transmission although patterns within individual states also acquired through long-term and shortconstraints and retail load varies with the and customer classes were different.
Thirteen long-term coal weather, distribution system outages and residential and commercial loads reected contracts accounted for 60% of the overall the level of economic activity.
During the an increase of 1.2% and 3.6% respectively, 2002 03 requirements.
The contract terms year ended 31 March 2003, retail loads as a result of increased customer numbers, range from one to 20 years.
The remaining were lower than in the previous year due to the industrial class showed a 3.2% decrease 7% of PaciCorps coal requirement was milder weather and a generally weak as a result of a decrease in industrial supplied through short-term purchases.
PaciCorps wholesale customers and the effects of the economic PaciCorp has also entered into long-term, transactions are integral to its retail downturn.
The majority of the growth in xed-price natural gas contracts to supply business, providing for a balanced and residential customers has been in the its owned and leased gas-red generation economically hedged position and eastern portion of PaciCorps service facilities.
These long-term contracts meet enhancing the efficient use of its generating territories, whereas the western portion has 100% of the expected needs for natural gas capacity over the long term.
PaciCorps remained relatively at in terms of its at these facilities until April 2005. transmission system is available for growth.
For the period 2004 to 2008, the common use consistent with open access underlying annual growth in retail MWh To manage future generation needs and regulatory requirements and connects with sales in PaciCorps franchise service meet environmental objectives, PaciCorp market hubs in the Pacic Northwest to territories is estimated to be in the range of has also completed an Integrated Resource provide access to what is normally low-cost 1.8% to 3.6%, dependent upon factors such Plan IRP which was led in January hydro-electric generation and also to the as economic recovery and growth, customer 2003.
This provides a framework and plan southwestern US, which provides access to numbers, weather, the potential effects on for the prudent future actions required to normally higher-cost fossil-fuel generation.
demand resulting from conservation efforts ensure that PaciCorp continues to provide and changes in price.
If prices increase in reliable and cost-effective electricity service Under the requirements of the Public Utility the region, demand growth over the region to its customers.
Projected growth rates and Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, PaciCorp may slow.
the retirement of existing resources indicate purchases the output of qualifying facilities a need, subject to ongoing review, for about constructed and operated by entities that Power production and fuel supply 4,000 additional MW of capacity between are not public utilities.
During 2002 03, PaciCorp owns or has interests in 2004 and 2014.
The IRP and the resulting PaciCorp purchased an average of 95 MW generating plants with an aggregate Request for Proposals process have been from qualifying facilities, compared to an nameplate rating of 8,410 MW and plant net created to identify PaciCorp's future average of 104 MW in 2001 02. capability of 7,925 MW, see Table 1 page resource mix in a coordinated process with 30.
During 2002 03, approximately 4% stakeholders in the six states it serves.
As Proposed asset sale and 58% of PaciCorps energy part of the IRP process, PaciCorp expects In 1998, PaciCorp announced its intention requirements were supplied by its hydroto select the optimal solution from a mix of to sell its California electricity service area, electric and thermal generation plants renewable, thermal, market purchase and including its electricity distribution assets, respectively.
The remaining 38% was demand side management choices and to and has since been working to complete the supplied by purchased power.
With its guide specic build or buy decisions sale of these properties to Nor-Cal Electric present generating facilities, under average made dependent on permitting, siting, Authority Nor-Cal.
Various factors have | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 14 Business Review Description of Business continued impeded the proposed sale.
These networks are position and to continue to deliver the validation action in the California Superior operated under licences issued by the Gas associated financial benefit.
PowerSystems Court challenged the authority of Nor-Cal to and Electricity Markets Authority the has continued to maintain a joint venture enter into such a transaction and alleged Authority and held by the transmission with Alfred McAlpine Utility Services certain conicts of interest among Nor-Cal and distribution businesses, which are Limited, called Core Utility Solutions and its advisors.
This action is ongoing and entitled to charge for the use of the Limited, to take advantage of the the outcome for the proposed sale remains systems on terms approved by the opportunities presented by the requirement uncertain.
Authority under various price control for competitive provision of connections to formulae.
The management focus of the distribution networks.
Infrastructure Division transmission and distribution business is to outperform allowed regulatory returns from UK Division Three wholly-owned subsidiaries of SPUK the provision of efficient, coordinated and SP Transmission Limited, SP Distribution economical networks which are open to The UK Division operates in gas and Limited and SP Manweb plc are the licensed users on a non-discriminatory electricity markets which became fully owner companies holding the regulated basis in order to facilitate competition in competitive with the ending of residual assets and transmission and distribution generation and supply and operated to price controls on residential electricity on licences and acting as an integrated approved standards of safety and reliability.
31 March 2002, although Ofgem continue business unit to concentrate divisional to enforce licence conditions and regulate expertise on regulatory issues and The income derived from the distribution quality of service.
The division comprises investment strategy.
A further whollybusiness is dependent on the demand for five wholly-owned subsidiaries: owned subsidiary of SPUK SP Power electricity by customers in the authorised ScottishPower Generation Limited owns Systems Limited PowerSystems areas.
Demand for electricity is affected by and operates the power stations and other provides asset management expertise and such factors as growth and movements in generation assets in the British Isles and conducts the day-to-day operation of the population, social trends, economic and holds the groups generation licence: networks, implementing work programmes business growth or decline, changes in the ScottishPower Energy Trading Limited and commissioned by and agreed with the mix of energy sources used by customers, ScottishPower Energy Trading Agency asset-owner business.
Strict commercial weather conditions and energy efficiency Limited deal in gas and electricity at the disciplines are applied at the asset ownermeasures.
Tables 10 and 11 page 32 set wholesale level and in the commercial service provider interface, with out the demand in gigawatthours GWh instruments and agreements which PowerSystems operating as a contractor to by customer type within the broadly stable constitute the market balancing the transmission and distribution business levels of electricity transported over the mechanisms for the competitive energy unit.
distribution systems in the ScottishPower market in the UK: ScottishPower Energy and Manweb home areas during the five Retail Limited is the gas and electricity An integrated senior management team most recent financial years.
supply company and holder of the groups within the Infrastructure Division applies supply licences, managing pricing, selling, the benets of growing expertise in asset Principal business activities asset billing and receipting for gas and electricity ownership, nancing and operational management supply to both business and domestic service provision to the management of the Within the PowerSystems business unit, the customers and dealing with enquiries groups regulated networks businesses in focus continues to be on reducing costs arising in the course of this business: and, both the US and the UK.
Its principal SP Dataserve Limited is the data business activities involve the construction management and metering company, Principal business activities transmission and refurbishment of the UK transmission managing the data processes which and distribution and distribution systems, their maintenance underpin customer registration through to ScottishPower owns and manages a and related fault repair.
PowerSystems acts billing and settlement in the competitive substantial UK electricity distribution and as the major service provider to the energy market.
transmission network which extends to over ScottishPower transmission and 116,000 km, with 66,800 km of distribution business and as the primary The divisional management team oversees underground cables and 49,900 km of customer contact agent for network-related activities across the energy value chain, overhead lines network, comprising both matters.
PowerSystems continues to focus maximising value from a diverse the distribution system to customers in its strongly on the efficient delivery of these generation portfolio through to a national two authorised areas and, in Scotland, its services under contract.
Current customer base of over 3.6 million, via an high voltage transmission system 132 performance, as measured by the Ofce of integrated commercial and energy kiloVolt kV and above, including those Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem management activity that acts to balance parts of the England-Scotland Customer Satisfaction Survey, is above and hedge energy needs.
Throughout interconnector which are in its Scottish average, placing ScottishPower in the 2002 03, wholesale energy prices have authorised area.
Table 9 page 32 shows incentive band within the Ofgem been low by historic standards and, in light key information with respect to the Information and Incentives Programme.
of the emphasis on a market-based divisions transmission and distribution PowerSystems aims to maintain this framework for energy policy set out by the | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 15 UK Government in February 2003, from major gas elds.
inquiry in late 2002, with a decision wholesale energy markets face the anticipated later in 2003 04. prospect of continuing structural and Generation output was managed in order to contractual changes.
As an active market hedge risk and optimise the position in the The New Electricity Trading Arrangements, participant, the division engages fully in balancing market.
Some 18 terawatthours introduced into England & Wales in March regulatory and contractual debate and in TWh were despatched, both to 2001, encourage all generators to nd the consultation processes surrounding the contribute towards the approximately 34 buyers for their output, by offering them Governments review of energy policy.
In the TWh of retail and wholesale demand competitive prices, and all suppliers to meantime, the division aims to leverage the provided by the division and to maintain contract with generators to purchase benets of its exible generation asset base export volumes through the interconnectors sufficient electricity to meet their customers and commercial operations to deliver to England & Wales and to Northern Ireland.
Imbalances between actual and sustained earnings through improved contracted positions are settled through the business processes and customer service.
Energy management and commercial balancing mechanism.
The pay-as-bid and arrangements balancing process exposes market Principal business activities In addition to its own generation capacity participants to the costs and consequences The groups UK Division operates and long-term bulk gas contracts of their actions, and thus leads to more ScottishPowers generating stations in the ScottishPower has access to additional cost-reective prices and more effective British Isles, manages the companys generation under contract.
Through its management of risk.
Wholesale electricity exposure to the wholesale electricity and commercial and energy management prices have remained low, down by gas markets and is responsible for energy operations, the division uses medium and approximately 10% year-on-year, although supply: the sales and marketing of short-term contractual arrangements to above ScottishPowers marginal cost of electricity and gas to customers complete its energy purchase requirements generation.
The UK market is characterised throughout Great Britain, together with the and to sell its generation output into the by over-capacity, with plant being associated customer registration, billing electricity market in Scotland and, through mothballed and some companies and receipting processes and handling the interconnectors, to England & Wales and withdrawing from the market.
Low wholesale enquiries in respect of these services.
The draft bill intended prices improve the profitability of the to introduce a Great Britain-wide market ScottishPower energy supply business to Power plant portfolio, fuel strategy and through the British Electricity Trading and the extent that the groups own generation generation sales Transmission Arrangements BETTA was and market purchases are used to meet ScottishPower has access to some 5,000 published in January 2003, although the customer demand but short-term sales MW of capacity, see Table 8 page 32 new arrangements are not now expected to contracts with large industrial and comprising coal, gas, hydro-electric and become effective until October 2004 at the commercial customers quickly reect wind power generation assets, giving the earliest.
BETTA is expected to have only a movements in the wholesale market, division a particularly exible portfolio.
very modest impact on end-user prices and restricting supply margins in this sector.
Acquisition of additional thermal the UK Government is now in consultation Under the Nuclear Energy Agreement generation capacity is kept under on transmission losses in a Great BritainNEA of 1990, ScottishPower and Scottish continuing review but purchases will only wide market, since these could impose & Southern were contracted, until 2005, to be made at value-enhancing prices and the higher costs on all types of generation in purchase the entire output from British current market is characterised by overScotland, particularly renewables.
Energys nuclear plants in Scotland on the capacity.
In 2002 03, the windfarm basis of a pricing formula not reective of business continued to expand and now has Through its activities in the electricity, gas and recent market conditions.
Amendments to operational windfarms totalling 128 MW, coal markets, ScottishPowers energy the NEA agreed in July 2002 were cleared planning applications for a further 546 MW management business secures competitive by the UK and European Union authorities and environmental assessments begun on advantage for the UK Division through by November 2002 and the full effect of the around 300 MW of further potential sites hedging and optimising its position across revised terms has now been applied to ensure that the company target of 10% the energy value chain, continuously throughout 2002 03 providing a benefit of of supply from renewables by 2010 is met.
evaluating and managing risk exposure.
ScottishPowers Hateld Moors gas storage ScottishPowers fuel purchasing strategy is site enhances the exibility of the divisions Energy supply based upon the objective of achieving energy management position, both in meeting Since September 1998, when competition competitive fuel prices while balancing the peak demands of supply customers and was extended to residential electricity need for security and exibility of supply.
responding to the volatility of gas prices customers, the strategic focus of the The major components of the fuel portfolio between midweek and weekends.
In ScottishPower energy supply business has are coal and gas, both fuels being sourced addition, the bulk gas contracts allow the gas been the defence of its core markets, through a combination of long-term to be sold out or used in the divisions power residential and small business customers in contracts and shorter-term trading.
The stations, giving yet more exibility.
A the ScottishPower and Manweb home areas, division has four long-term contracts with planning application for a 60 million therm, whilst seeking profitable additional business terms of greater than five years for supply gas storage facility was subject to a public outside these historical regional boundaries.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 16 Business Review Description of Business continued Retention of home area residential municipal agencies, public utility districts In addition to its renewable generation customers stands at 61% whilst targeted and investor-owned utilities.
These portfolio, PPM has a total of 37 billion cubic sales efforts, strategic marketing alliances, customers are primarily located in feet BCF of gas storage capacity under such as NESTMakers, the partnership with wholesale energy markets served by the 1.8 ownership, up from 14 BCF the prior year.
Sainsburys and the use of e-commerce million square mile Western Electricity This includes the 21 BCF acquired in channels have helped develop a Britain-wide Coordinating Council service territories in December 2002 at the Katy gas storage customer base which now stands at 3.65 the western US.
In addition to its active facility in Texas and a 2 BCF expansion of million energy accounts.
Customer service engagement in the west, PPM is currently the Alberta Hub gas storage facility during performance improved on the prior year developing wind generation projects in the the year.
PPM intends to add to its 40% and there have been further system mid-western US.
PPMs two major gas ownership in the Alberta Hub gas storage improvements in the call centres.
The storage facilities are in Alberta, Canada, and facility with the purchase of an additional business improvement programme Texas and are each connected into ownership interest this spring.
PPM has a introduced in 2001 continues to drive substantial pipeline networks serving wellnumber of development opportunities improvements across the retail supply diversied customer bases under rm, longunderway to grow its gas storage business at business and has delivered revenue and term as well as short-term contract selective locations over the next several years.
cost benets of 14 million in the year to 31 arrangements.
March 2003 in areas such as billing, debt PPM creates value by securing quality assets and customer registration business In order to meet growing customer demand at strategic locations and by locking in value processes.
for renewables, which is supported by public with long-term contracts with creditworthy policy at the federal and certain state levels, customers.
Integration of plant operations, Metering and data management PPM continues to grow its renewable energy contract dispatch and energy management In the competitive energy market SP business.
In October 2002, PPM purchased add additional value.
The optimisation Dataserve Limited operates end-to-end the output of the 150 MW High Winds benets come from displacing plant process and data management in order to windfarm in northern California and, as it operations with low-priced power purchases, maximise efficiencies in the provision and did with the Stateline Wind Energy Center selling the displaced gas or placing it in control of registration and metering data.
along the Oregon Washington border, has storage, as well as using transmission and Data management covers the placed much of this high-quality renewable contract delivery exibility to manage establishment of new customers, energy output under long-term contracts.
locational price differences in both gas and maintenance of existing customers and PPM is also developing the 51 MW Moraine power.
PPM aims to leverage the benets of accuracy of energy settlement.
To effectively Wind Power Project in southwest Minnesota its exible asset base and contracts to manage gas and electricity customers, SP in conjunction with a long-term power sales extract value across gas and power.
Dataserve has been improving billing agreement signed with the regional performance and the management of the regulated utility, Northern States Power Discontinued activities agents, who provide much of the data.
PPM continues to grow its renewable energy business and has recently UK water and wastewater services PPM announced the development of the 44 MW Southern Water Flying Cloud Wind Project in Iowa, which The sale of Southern Water to First Aqua PPM, the groups competitive US energy includes a 15 year agreement to sell power Limited, a company specically formed to business, commenced substantive to Interstate Power & Light, a subsidiary of undertake the acquisition, was announced operations in 2001 as PaciCorp Power Alliant Energy.
All of these projects will be on 8 March 2002 and concluded on 23 Marketing, Inc. and is growing prudently on-line by the end of calendar year 2003.
Net cash inows from the through selective expansion in renewables disposal were used primarily to reduce and gas storage services.
In order to express PPM has grown its operating wind power group net debt.
better the range of its activities, PPM portfolio from 263 MW in 2002 to 324 MW changed its name in January 2003 to PPM in 2003.
With approximately another 250 Group employees Energy, Inc. Its principal assets are thermal MW under construction and expected to and renewable generation resources and come on-line in 2003 04, this will bring US businesses natural gas storage facilities, including a gas PPMs total wind power under ownership or PHI and its subsidiaries had 6,291 storage asset in western Canada.
PPM has contract to more than 560 MW.
In addition, employees at 31 March 2003.
Of these, more than 1,100 MW currently under its PPM continues to develop wind power 6,130 were employed by PaciCorp and its ownership or control and, of that, PPM has generation and supply arrangements and mining subsidiaries and 161 by PPM.
full economic interest in 861 MW, see Table has under consideration many strategically 7 page 31.
PPM also has approximately sited windfarm opportunities.
It is a western Approximately 59% of the employees of 250 MW under construction.
This will bring US leader in the supply of renewable energy PaciCorp and its mining subsidiaries are PPMs total to more than 1,350 MW upon and is committed to sustainable and clean covered by union contracts, principally with completion of construction.
In its electricity energy development for the future, as the International Brotherhood of Electrical business, PPM serves a wide variety of demanded by the market.
Workers, the Utility Workers Union of wholesale energy customers including America and the United Mine Workers of | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 17 America.
In the companys judgement, role in society and to engage fully with challenges, aiming to grow its business employee relations in the US businesses are shareholders, staff, communities, sustainably in new energy markets, to satisfactory.
customers and other opinion formers.
It invest in renewables and clean-coal aims to do this transparently, through an technology and to ensure that customers UK businesses international framework, to ensure that key benefit from innovations in energy ScottishPower and its continuing UK principles are translated into action.
It also aims to manage existing subsidiaries had 7,534 employees, at 31 framework comprises overall international coal-red assets responsibly, applying March 2003.
Of these, 3,215 were visionary goals, and specic goals for the appropriate abatement technologies to employed in the Infrastructure Division and US and UK.
Performance towards meeting reduce its environmental footprint whilst 4,319 in the UK Division.
Approximately these goals is tracked through carefully supporting security of supply and 64% of employees in the UK are union chosen Key Performance Indicators, affordability of power for its customers.
members, and 84% are covered by closely related to business unit objectives.
The lines of accountability for collective bargaining arrangements.
There ScottishPowers strategy is to become one environmental policy have been are a number of different collective of the worlds leading international energy strengthened by forming the policy making agreements in place throughout the group, companies.
Hence, it must strive to achieve Energy and Environment Committee, reecting differing market conditions in a balance between various needs including chaired by the Chief Executive and with which the groups businesses operate.
In securing energy supply now and into the direct reporting lines to ScottishPowers the companys judgement, employee future, keeping energy affordable and Executive Team.
relations in the UK businesses are minimising its impact on the environment.
The work of Environment Forums in the US Policy frameworks in the US and UK have and UK continues to provide ScottishPower Human resources strategy common elements: moves to place a value with independent opinion on key During 2002, the group reviewed its on carbon dioxide CO for trading, environmental policies and practices.
2 human resources strategy, assessing the tightening emission controls using market Environmental Management Systems mutual needs of the businesses and their instruments and supporting renewables EMS in the UK, many of which are employees.
Following a gap analysis a and energy efficiency measures.
In the US, certied, are based on the ISO14001 new human resources strategy was President Bushs Clear Skies initiative standard.
These systems continue to developed and approved by the Board in appears to have a high Government provide appropriate controls, and are July 2002.
In 2003 04, plans will be priority, against a background of pressure increasingly linked to business risk developed and implemented aiming to to move it towards a multi-pollutant basis, management processes.
In the US, ensure that, by 2005 and wherever they including carbon.
Although efforts to adopt PaciCorps coal-red stations and one work across the group, employees share a a Renewable Portfolio Standard at the gas-red station are all certied to consistent, positive experience of working federal level have slowed, efforts continue ISO14001 and other parts of PaciCorp for ScottishPower which encourages and to create viable markets for renewable continue to roll out EMS programmes.
generation at the state level, most notably PaciCorps hydro resources business unit in California.
The European Union EU has completed the Lewis River Basin EMS, During 2002 03, health and safety agreed the content of an Emission Trading which has acted as the template for arrangements were also reviewed, Directive early in December 2002 which completion of the Rogue and Klamath stimulated by an external audit of will bring into force a mandatory emission EMSs and subsequent EMS development business processes.
A new health and trading regime, as soon as 2005.
The UK at the Umpqua and Bear River basins.
safety governance process was approved Energy White Paper, published in February PaciCorps power transmission and by the Executive Team in November 2002 2003, doubled the UK renewables target of distribution business unit has embedded and, following extensive discussion and 10% by 2010 to 20%, to be achieved by EMS controls at four key hub facilities communication, a new group health and 2020.
Energy saving and energy services and has strong procedures covering bird safety strategy was developed for received a boost, while resources were protection, oil spills and waste implementation in 2003 04. identied to support new clean-coal.
In management, including a well established Scotland, consultations have begun on a contaminant removal programme.
Further details of group workplace policy demanding target of 40% renewables by and performance can be found in the 2020.
This is being carried out at a time Research and development ScottishPower Environmental and Social when operators and the UK regulator, Impact Report and the ScottishPower Ofgem, are engaging in discussions which ScottishPower supports research into Workplace Performance Report.
Both will recognise the need to set network development of the generation, be available on the ScottishPower website.
upgrades in the context of future network transmission, distribution and supply of development for renewables and electricity.
It also continues to contribute, Group environmental policy embedded generation.
on an industry-wide basis, towards the cost of research into electricity utilisation ScottishPower recognises the need for a The group continues to develop specic and distribution developments.
In responsible business to embrace a wider policies to respond to these regulatory financial years 2002 03, 2001 02 and | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 18 Business Review Description of Business continued 2000 01, expenditure on research and PaciCorps coal reserves are described in At 31 March 2003, the UK transmission development in the groups businesses Table 2 page 30.
Most are held pursuant facilities included approximately 4,150 was 0.7 million, 3.1 million and 4.2 to leases from the federal government circuit km of overhead lines and million, respectively.
through the Bureau of Land Management underground cable operated at 400 kV, 275 and from certain states and private parties.
In addition, the distribution Charitable donations The leases generally have multi-year terms facilities included over 110,000 circuit km of that may be renewed or extended and overhead lines and underground cable at During 2002 03, donations made for require payment of rentals and royalties.
In voltages operating from 33 kV to 0.23 kV.
charitable purposes by ScottishPower addition, federal and state regulations The group holds either permanent rights or companies totalled 3.2 million.
In addition, require that comprehensive environmental wayleaves which entitle it to run these lines some 5.3 million of community support protection and reclamation standards be and cables through private land.
See Table 9 activity comprising community investment met during the course of mining operations page 32 for further details.
and commercial initiatives given in cash, and upon completion of mining activities.
through staff time and in-kind donations was undertaken by the companys US and PPM has more than 1,100 MW currently UK operations.
under its ownership or control and, of that, PPM has full economic interest in 861 MW, Description of the companys see Table 7 page 31.
PPM also has property approximately 250 MW under construction.
This will bring PPMs total to more than US businesses 1,350 MW upon completion of construction.
The US properties consist primarily of The majority of PPMs capacity, 300 MW generating facilities, electricity transmission contracted for a period of 25 years and 237 and distribution facilities, coal mines and a MW of thermal power contracted for a number of ofce facilities.
Substantially all period of 30 years, comes from long-term of PaciCorps electricity plants are subject agreements while 324 MW comes from to the lien of PaciCorps Mortgage and outright ownership of one wind plant and Deed of Trust.
PPM also owns major gas storage facilities in Alberta, Canada and PaciCorp owns or has an interest in 53 Texas for a total of 37 BCF of gas storage hydro-electric generating plants.
These have capacity under ownership, up from 14 BCF an aggregate nameplate rating of 1,067 MW the prior year.
and plant net capability of 1,116 MW.
It also owns or has interests in 17 thermalUK businesses electricity generating plants with an The UK properties consist of generating aggregate nameplate rating of 7,310 MW stations, transmission and distribution and plant net capability of 6,777 MW.
facilities and certain non-operational PaciCorp also jointly owns one wind power properties in which the company holds generating plant with an aggregate freehold or leasehold interests.
nameplate rating of 33 MW and plant net capability of 33 MW.
Table 1 page 30 sets ScottishPower owns seven power stations in out key aspects of PaciCorps existing Scotland, five of which are operational and generating facilities.
These generating two in England.
It also owns three facilities are interconnected through windfarms in Northern Ireland, four in PaciCorps own transmission lines or by Scotland, and one in the Republic of Ireland.
contract through the lines of others.
In addition, the company has joint venture Substantially all of PaciCorps generating interests in one power station in England facilities and reservoirs are managed on a and three windfarms, two of which are in coordinated basis to obtain maximum load England and one in Wales.
All generation carrying capability and efficiency.
Portions plant is owned by the group, with the of PaciCorps 72,000 miles of transmission exception of the non-operational Methil and distribution networks are located, by power station, which is held on a ground franchise or permit, upon public lands, lease that expires in 2012 and the roads and streets and, by easement or windfarms which are generally held on licence, upon the lands of other third ground leases of at least 25 years duration.
Table 4 page 31 sets out further See Table 8 page 32 for further details of information regarding the PaciCorp operational generation assets.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 19 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background As a public limited company plc, services, accounting, issuance of securities Regional Transmission Organization Scottish Power plc is subject to the UK and other matters.
Commissioners are RTO Companies Acts and is also registered as a appointed by the individual states On 31 July 2002, the FERC issued a Notice holding company under the US federal governor for varying terms.
PaciCorp is a of Proposed Rulemaking proposing a new Public Utility Holding Company Act of licensee and a public utility as those Standard Market Design SMD for 1935, which is administered by the US terms are used in the Federal Power Act wholesale electricity markets, relating to federal Securities and Exchange FPA and is, therefore, subject to open access transmission service and Commission SEC.
Hence, Scottish regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory standard electricity market design.
The SMD Power plc, PaciCorp and other Commission FERC as to accounting proposed a number of remedies aimed at subsidiaries are subject to regulation policies and practices, certain prices and removing barriers to efficient competitive unless specic subsidiaries or transactions other matters.
wholesale markets perceived by the FERC.
are otherwise exempt by SEC rules or PaciCorp is one of 10 parties involved in an orders.
SPUK and its subsidiaries are Because PPM does not conduct retail effort to form an RTO, named RTO West, in exempt because SPUK is an exempt foreign electricity operations, it is not subject to the response to FERC Order 2000.
The ten utility as dened in the 1935 Act.
Whereas same state public utility commission members of RTO West would be Avista US federal and state regulatory regulation as PaciCorp.
However, certain Corporation, British Columbia Hydro and commissions generally have jurisdiction of its wholesale activities are regulated by Power Authority, Bonneville Power over mergers, acquisitions and the sale of the FERC and the state commissions Administration, Idaho Power Company, utility assets, the UK Government, as a way impose certain limitations on afliate Northwestern Energy L. L. C. formerly to maintain control over ScottishPower and transactions.
In addition, PPM's Texan and Montana Power Company, Nevada Power certain of its subsidiaries, required the Canadian gas storage activities are subject Company, PaciCorp, Portland General issuance of a ScottishPower Special to regulation by the Texas Railroad Electric Company, Puget Sound Energy, Inc. Share.
The Special Share only affects the Commission and the Alberta Energy and and Sierra Pacic Power Company.
Creation corporate control transactions at the overall Utilities Board, respectively.
of RTO West is subject to regulatory group holding company level and has no approvals from the FERC and some of the effect on PaciCorp.
Multi-State Process MSP states served by these members may also PaciCorp continues its active involvement assert jurisdiction over certain matters ScottishPowers UK operations are subject in a collaborative process with stakeholders relating to the formation of RTO West.
RTO to such EU Directives as the UK in the six states it serves to develop West plans to operate all transmission Government brings into effect, specically, mutually acceptable solutions to the facilities needed for bulk power transfers the EU energy Liberalisation Directive and problems faced by PaciCorp and the states and to control the majority of the 60,000 EU prohibitions on anti-competitive as a result of the operations of a multi-state miles of transmission line owned by the agreements and the abuse of a dominant utility.
MSP seeks to clarify roles and members.
On 18 September 2002, the position implemented through the responsibilities, including cost allocations FERC voted that, with some modication Competition Act 1998, which came into for future generation resources, to provide and further development of certain details, effect from 1 March 2000 and also to the states with the ability independently to the RTO West proposal satisfies the provisions of the Utilities Act 2000 implement state energy policy objectives requirements of the FERC Order 2000.
The Utilities Act introduced and to achieve a permanent consensus on also recognised the proposal as providing a a legal framework for energy company each states responsibility for the costs and basic framework for a SMD for the western licences based on standard, UK-wide entitlement to the benets of PaciCorps US.
On 28 April 2003, the FERC released a conditions and, taken together with existing assets.
Between April and White Paper on its wholesale electricity SMD, requirements of the Department of Trade December 2002, PaciCorp and key parties proposed in July 2002, which reected a and Industry DTI and licence changes from the states it serves or, in the case of willingness to defer to regional solutions and introduced by the Regulators, defines the California, a key monitoring contact not adopt overly-prescriptive rules.
The regulatory framework within which SPUK analysed over 50 options which were White Paper indicates that the FERC will and its subsidiaries must operate.
A second refocus its forthcoming final SMD rule phase of the collaborative process is under around the formation of RTOs and ensure A summary of the more specic legislative way in which the parties will further assess that those entities have sound market rules.
and regulatory background to the the two proposals with the goal of agreeing Additionally, the FERC afrmed that it would operations of the groups businesses is set a single proposal by the summer of 2003. permit phased-in implementation and out below.
Any proposal resulting from the MSP would sequencing tailored to each region, and be subject to approval by the utility allow modications that would benefit US business regulation commissions in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, customers within each region.
The FERC has Washington, Idaho and California, and may now instituted an open-ended public PaciCorp is subject to the jurisdiction of also require approvals from the FERC and comment period, specically inviting the public utility regulatory authorities of the SEC.
Additional state proceedings to reaction to certain aspects of the paper.
It is each of the states in which it conducts approve specic contracts and tariffs would expected that the final order will be delayed retail electricity operations as to prices, follow, probably during 2003 04. past the initial July 2003 target release date.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 20 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background continued FERC Issues requiring refunds for wholesale spot market settlement agreements into the licence On 26 April 2001, the FERC imposed a bilateral sales in the Pacic Northwest applications to the FERC.
PaciCorp has price mitigation plan limiting prices on spot between 25 December 2000 and 20 June also analysed the costs and benets of market sales in California 24 hours a day, 2001.
PaciCorp's obligation to make relicensing the Condit, Powerdale and seven days a week.
On 19 June 2001, the refunds, if any, will be dependent upon any American Fork hydro-electric projects and FERC issued an order that extended the final order issued by the FERC in response as a result entered into a settlement California price limits to all wholesale spot to the outcome of these proceedings and agreement to remove or decommission market sales in the entire 11-state western cannot be determined at this time.
these projects, rather than continuing to region.
The 19 June 2001 order also pursue new licences.
required that all public utility sellers and Relicensing of hydro-electric projects buyers the Party or Parties in the PaciCorp's hydro-electric portfolio Most of the commitments under these California Independent System Operators consists of 53 plants with a plant net settlement agreements are contingent on Cal ISO markets participate in capability of 1,116 MW, about 13% of ultimately receiving acceptable licences settlement discussions to complete the PaciCorp's total generating capacity.
The costs of the measures, task of settling past accounts and majority of the hydro-electric generating together with the costs for hydro-electric structuring the new arrangements for portfolio is operated under licences from relicensing, are expected to be included in California's energy future.
As a result the FERC, granted for periods of 30 to 50 rates and, as such, not to have a material thereof, on 12 July 2001, an Administrative years.
There is a complex regulatory adverse impact on the group's consolidated Law Judge ALJ issued a process to apply for new licences which results or financial position.
recommendation to the FERC based upon begins five and a half years before the the settlement conference, proposing a expiration of an existing licence and Regulatory established returns methodology to calculate refunds for spot involves a number of federal and state The regulatory commissions in the various sales to the Cal ISO and the California agencies, as well as other stakeholders.
states where PaciCorp operates approve Power Exchange CPX between 2 Some state and federal agencies have an appropriate level of cost recovery for October 2000 and 20 June 2001.
The authority to require certain terms and debt, preferred equity and common equity FERC agreed with the ALJ-proposed conditions to be included in the FERC which results in an allowed return on rate methodology.
Often existing licences expire prior base costs ROR, including an allowed second ALJ issued a Certication of to the FERCs issuing a new licence.
In return on equity ROE representing the Proposed Findings on California Refund these cases, the FERC has historically return on shareholder investment.
Liability in which the ALJ preliminarily issued annual operating licences so that Determination of these returns, and the determined that $1.2 billion was still owed the project can continue to operate while composition of the investment costs to suppliers by the Cal ISO and the CPX, alternatives are evaluated: the FERC is included in the rate base, is made by the which was calculated by offsetting a $1.8 expected to continue this practice.
commissions in hearings on general rate billion refund from the $3.0 billion owed to cases.
Rates are then set to allow suppliers.
On 26 March 2003, the FERC Many of PaciCorp's long-term operating PaciCorp the opportunity, with no staff issued a final report on price licences have expired or will expire in the guarantees, to meet its expenses, recover manipulation in western markets Staffs next few years, leaving the plants to operate its investments and earn the allowed ROE Final Report.
Following issuance of the under annual licences granted by the FERC for its shareholders.
In recent rate cases, Staffs Final Report, the FERC issued an but containing conditions requiring the Utah, Oregon and Wyoming Order on Proposed Findings on Refund PaciCorp to implement certain protection, commissions have approved RORs of 8.9%, Liability adopting many of the ALJs 12 mitigation and enhancement measures, 8.6% and 8.4% and ROEs of 11.0%, 10.8% December 2002 Proposed Findings and primarily to address environmental and 10.8%, respectively.
Rate cases are clarifying the method for calculating concerns relating to sheries, water quality, underway in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming and refunds for purchases made in the Cal ISO wildlife, recreation, land use, cultural California: in each case, PaciCorp is and CPX spot markets.
In its order, the resources and erosion.
It is difficult to targeting an ROE of 11.5%.
Commissions in FERC adopted recommendations from the determine the economic impact of these all states served by PaciCorp monitor Staffs Final Report, including a new proxy measures, but capital expenditures and PaciCorps achieved ROR for for gas prices, which could increase the operating costs are expected to increase appropriateness in current market amount of refunds, if any, owed by all and in-stream ow requirements and other conditions.
PaciCorp continues to rene Parties.
The FERC expects that refunds will constraints on operations may result in its internal procedures and to work with the be distributed by the end of the summer of lower generating output and reductions in commissions to ensure that all prudently 2003.
PaciCorps level of exposure to operational exibility.
PaciCorp has incurred costs are reected in its rates and refunds is dependent upon any final order entered into settlement agreements with that actual rates achieve allowable ROE issued by the FERC in response to the stakeholders in the licensing processes levels.
General rate adjustments reecting outcome of these proceedings.
regarding measures to be included in the changes in the regulated cost base granted new licences for the North Umpqua, Bear in 2002 03 have an annualised value of The FERC has also established a second River and Big Fork hydro-electric projects approximately $31 million.
proceeding to consider the possibility of and has incorporated the terms of these | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 21 Recovery of excess power costs manage the growth of weather-driven peak number of individual issues into an overall PaciCorp has made progress towards loads and a refrigerator recycling programme under which PaciCorp will recovering the deferred power costs programme intended to encourage recover a total of $147 million of deferred incurred during the period of extreme customers to remove and recycle power costs and commit not to le a volatility and unprecedented high price secondary refrigerators and or to upgrade general rate case that would take effect levels beginning in the summer of 2000 primary refrigerators to more energy prior to 1 January 2004, with certain and extending through the summer of efficient models.
PaciCorp has also led exceptions.
One party has opposed the rate 2001.
These costs are being recovered for a DSM tariff in Utah.
This tariff would spread provisions of the stipulation through rate orders amounting to $147.0 allow PaciCorp to recover DSM agreement and led a petition for review of million in Utah, $131.0 million plus expenditures through a surcharge to the order.
PaciCorp intends to make a ongoing carrying charges in Oregon and customer bills.
Several technical compliance ling in Utah that prepares the $25.0 million in Idaho.
A final decision on a conferences have been held with interested way for a general rate case to be led in similar request for $15.9 million in parties and hearings have been scheduled July 2003.
The compliance ling will Washington is expected in early June of for mid-August 2003. establish a cap of $125 million on the 2003.
In Wyoming, PaciCorps request for increase that will be dened in more detail deferred power cost recovery was denied On 17 March 2003, the Idaho Public when PaciCorp les its revenue although, on 4 April 2003, PaciCorp led Utilities Commission IPUC approved an requirement testimony on or before 31 July for a rehearing which is expected to move irrigation load control credit programme 2003.
As part of this ling PaciCorp will to a decision following oral arguments on 8 allowing participants to opt for billing le its ROE testimony and supporting May 2003 and the Oregon rate order is the credits in exchange for pre-scheduled load exhibits.
Hearings are expected to be held subject of an appeal by intervening parties control events during the summer in January and February of 2004.
If which, if successful, would require some irrigation season of 1 June to 15 approved, rate changes would become refunds.
Under UK Generally Accepted September.
Accounting Principles GAAP, all PaciCorps net power costs are charged to Competition and deregulation Oregon the profit and loss account when incurred.
During 2002 03, PaciCorp continued to On 20 May 2002, the Oregon Public Utility There is, therefore, a time lag between the operate its electricity distribution and retail Commission OPUC approved a onerecognition of allowable excess power costs business under state regulation.
Certain year $15.4 million overall rate increase under UK GAAP compared to US GAAP, industrial customers in Oregon can choose effective from 1 June 2002 and intended to which continues to benefit future UK GAAP alternative electricity suppliers.
However, cover increases in power costs.
deregulation of the retail market has not reconsideration of some $1.2 million of the developed widely and, whilst customer increase was the subject of briefs led in Demand Side Management DSM demand for choice in each state may mid-April 2003.
An order is anticipated in PaciCorp continues to offer its Energy eventually lead to retail competition in the summer of 2003.
On 18 March 2003, Exchange programme in Utah, Oregon, some form, individual state legislatures PaciCorp led a general rate case to Wyoming, Washington and Idaho.
This have as yet brought forward few specic recover rising costs for insurance, pension programme is an optional, supplemental proposals for retail competition in funding and healthcare, among others.
If service which allows participating electricity supply.
In Oregon, where Senate approved, the increase of $57.9 million, or customers an opportunity voluntarily to Bill 1149 SB1149 required rate 7.4% in base rates, would take effect from reduce electricity usage in exchange for a unbundling and the offer of alternatives, January 2004. payment at times and prices determined only 26 customers, representing less than by PaciCorp.
The programme is designed 3 average MW of load, elected to take an Deferred accounting lings encompassing to help all customers of one MW and alternative plan for calendar year 2003. power costs that varied from the levels in greater to address periods of high PaciCorp is recovering approximately $24 Oregon rates are the subject of continuing wholesale prices and peaks in demand million of SB1149 implementation costs hearings, although partial recovery of the when they occur.
over a five-year period through retail rates.
deferred costs has continued under rate increases authorised by the OPUC for In Utah, PaciCorp is working on several A summary of the outcomes and the most implementation in February 2001, August programmes, including an incentive significant further regulatory and legislative 2002 and January 2003.
The various programme to reduce summer peak loads developments in the states concerned is actions and hearings have addressed two by encouraging installation of either set out below.
issues: whether deferred power costs can evaporative cooling or high efficiency also be amortised at 3% or 6% and the total known as unitary air conditioning Utah amount of deferred power costs to be equipment, which was approved by the On 1 May 2002, the UPSC issued an order recovered.
A stipulation agreement Utah Public Service Commission UPSC approving a stipulation agreement recognising the 6% amortisation rate was on 24 March 2003.
In April and May 2003, regarding the recovery of deferred and approved by the OPUC in December 2002: PaciCorp led an air conditioning load non-deferred net power costs in Utah.
The appeals against OPUC rulings on the control services programme to help order allows for the consolidation of a amount of the recovery have been | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 22 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background continued consolidated into an action in the Oregon competition in electricity generation, gas Electricity generation the production of Court of Appeals.
storage and the supply of both gas and electricity at power stations, hydro-electric electricity.
The Acts established the plants, windfarms and some industrial Wyoming licensing of industry participants and plants.
Through its wholly-owned On 6 March 2003, the Wyoming Public created regulatory bodies for each of the subsidiary, ScottishPower Generation Service Commission granted PaciCorp a electricity and gas industries.
In 2000, the Limited, the group is licensed to operate general rate increase of $8.7 million, Utilities Act enabled the electricity and gas some 5,400 MW of UK generating capacity approximately 2.8%, but denied recovery of regulators to be merged as the Authority, and, by contracting in the wholesale all deferred power costs.
PaciCorp has established new independent consumer market, has access to capacity operated by led a request for a rehearing: oral councils and provided powers for other licensed generators.
arguments on 8 May 2003 are expected to Government Ministers to give statutory lead to a decision on the rehearing in the guidance on social and environmental Electricity transmission the bulk transfer near future.
Separately, PaciCorp issues and to set energy efficiency targets of electricity across a high voltage network anticipates ling a general rate case in and renewables obligations.
of overhead lines, underground cables and Wyoming in late May 2003. associated equipment typically operating at The Utilities Act transferred the functions of or above 132 kV.
Through its wholly-owned Washington the previous electricity and gas industry subsidiary, SP Transmission Limited, the On 18 October 2002, PaciCorp led with regulators to the Authority and provided for group owns and is licensed to operate the the Washington Utilities & Transportation the appointment of a Chairman and other transmission system in central and Commission to defer and recover $17.5 members of the Authority by the Secretary southern Scotland.
ScottishPowers million of excess net power costs: the of State for Trade and Industry Secretary transmission system is connected to that of deferral and recovery request was of State.
The Chairman of the Authority Scottish & Southern in the north of subsequently reduced to $15.9 million holds ofce for renewable periods of five Scotland and is linked to the National Grid based on power cost data through years and is the Managing Director of in England & Wales and to the Northern December 2002.
Ofgem which provides administrative Ireland transmission system by support to the Authority.
Under the Utilities interconnectors which enable the export Idaho Act, the principal objective of the Secretary and import of electricity within the UK.
The On 7 January 2002, PaciCorp led with of State and the Authority is to protect the Authority is currently conducting a review the Idaho Public Utilities Commission to interest of customers, wherever appropriate of BETTA and a draft bill has been recover deferred power costs: the matter by promoting effective competition.
In published to facilitate revised was resolved in October 2002 by a $25 carrying out those functions, they are arrangements in respect of the million package of two-year rate surcharges required to have regard to the need to interconnector between Scotland and and the retirement of merger credits.
secure that all reasonable demands for England: these are now expected to be in electricity and gas are met: the need to place by 2005.
California ensure that licence holders are able to In June 2002, the California Public Utilities finance their functions: the interests of Electricity distribution the transfer of Commission granted an interim rate individuals who are disabled or chronically electricity from the high voltage increase amounting to approximately $4.7 sick, of pensionable age, with low incomes transmission system and its delivery to million, or 8.8%, annually, subject to refund or residing in rural areas.
The Authority customers, across a network of overhead pending the outcome of the general rate exercises, concurrently with the Director lines and underground cables operating at case submitted in December 2001.
The General of Fair Trading, certain functions voltages ranging from 33 kV to 0.23 kV.
The discovery process between PaciCorp and relating to monopoly situations under the Utilities Act required separate licensing of the Ofce of Ratepayer Advocates is Fair Trading Act 1973 and to antithe 14 regional distribution businesses ongoing, with evidentiary hearings competitive conduct under the Competition introduced under electricity privatisation.
Act 1980 and the Competition Act 1998.
Each Public Electricity Distributor PED The Authority also manages UK compliance licensee is required, among other duties, to Regulation of the electricity and gas with the European Community develop and maintain an efficient, coindustries in the UK Liberalisation Directive, which is concerned ordinated and economical system of to introduce competition in generation and electricity distribution and to offer terms The UK electricity and gas industries are supply and non-discriminatory access to gas for connection to, and use of, its regulated under the provisions of the transportation and electricity transmission distribution system on a nonElectricity Act, the Gas Acts and the Utilities and distribution across the EU.
discriminatory basis, in order to ensure Act.
The Electricity and Gas Acts provided competition in the supply and generation for the privatisation and restructuring of The licensing regime of electricity.
Through its wholly-owned the industries in the late 1980s and the The Authority is responsible for granting subsidiaries, SP Distribution Limited and 1990s, including the introduction of price new licences or licence extensions for each SP Manweb plc, the group is licensed to regulation for electricity transmission and of the following separate activities: distribute electricity within its two distribution and gas transportation: and of distribution services areas for all suppliers | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 23 whose customers are within the areas.
domestic customers must obtain whether matters specified in the reference Charges for distribution are made to the authorisation from the Authority and be in pursuance of a licence operate, or may various suppliers as appropriate.
The subject to additional domestic supply be expected to operate, against the public Authority has granted a derogation, which obligations in its licence, including having interest: and, if so, whether the adverse will lapse only in certain limited its codes of practice statements of intent public interest effect of these factors could circumstances, allowing the distribution about how the supplier will interact with be remedied or prevented by modication businesses in the ScottishPower and customers approved by the Authority.
of the conditions of the licence.
If the Manweb PED licence areas to be managed Broadly comparable arrangements allow Competition Commission so concludes, the and operated jointly.
British Gas Trading to supply mains gas to Authority must then make such any connected customer in competition modications to the licence as appear to it Gas transportation and storage the with licensed gas suppliers.
Customers may requisite for the purpose of remedying or onshore transportation system, most of continue to take supplies from the prepreventing the adverse effects specified in which is owned and operated by Transco, privatisation monopoly supplier for the the report, after giving due notice and the transportation arm of National Grid area or may choose an alternative licensed consideration to any representations and Transco plc, and the rest by other gas supplier.
Once customers have changed a objections.
The Secretary of State has the transporters, conveys gas from the beach gas or electricity supplier, they are able to power to veto any modication.
terminals to consumers and is change supplier again subject to the interconnected with the gas transportation contractual terms offered by licensed Modications to licence conditions may systems of continental Europe, Northern suppliers and approved by the Authority.
also be made in consequence of a Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Storage Through its wholly owned subsidiary, monopoly or merger reference under the capacities are largely used to balance ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited, the Fair Trading Act 1973 or a reference under supply and demand over time.
Major group is licensed as a gas supplier and an the Competition Act.
ScottishPowers facilities are used to balance seasonal electricity supplier.
acquisition of Manweb in 1995 and of variations in demand while diurnal storage Southern Water in 1996 and its merger capacities provide exibility in meeting Modication of licences The Authority is with PaciCorp in 1999 all involved changing gas demand on a daily basis.
responsible for monitoring compliance with ScottishPowers giving of undertakings to Competition in storage has been the conditions of licences and, where the Secretary of State to agree to introduced progressively since 1998 necessary, enforcing them through modications to the licences under which through the auction of major storage procedures laid down in the Electricity and the group operates in the UK.
Broadly, capacity owned by Transco and the Gas Acts.
Under these Acts, as amended by these modications were designed to ringprovision of new capacity by independent the Utilities Act, licences consist of fence various UK regulated businesses, to operators, including ScottishPower.
standard licence conditions, which apply to require that the group had sufficient Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, SP all classes of licences, and special management and financial resources to Gas Limited, the group is licensed as a gas conditions particular to that licence.
The full its UK obligations and to ensure that transporter.
Authority may modify standard licence UK regulators would continue to have conditions collectively through making access to the information needed to carry Gas shipping gas shippers contract with proposals to all relevant licence holders.
gas transporters to have gas transported some licence holders object, the between the beach terminal and the point modication may be carried out only if the Term and revocation of licences Licences of supply.
Gas shippers can also access number of objectors is below a specified under the Electricity Act, as modied by the storage facilities.
The group is licensed as a minority.
The Authority may modify a Utilities Act, may be terminated by not less gas shipper.
special licence condition with the than 25 years notice given by the agreement of the licence holder after due Secretary of State and may be revoked in Supply of gas and electricity the bulk notice, public consultation, and certain circumstances specified in the purchase of gas and electricity by suppliers consideration of any representations or licence.
These include the insolvency of the and its sale to customers, with the objections.
In the absence of agreement for licensee, the licensees failure to comply associated customer service activities, a special licence condition or if objections with an enforcement order made by the including customer registration, meter are above the specified minority threshold Authority and the licensees failure to carry reading, sales and marketing, billing and for a standard licence condition, the only on the activities authorised by the licence.
Large industrial and means by which the Authority can secure a commercial customers have been able to modication is following a modication Price controls choose their energy suppliers for a number reference to the Competition Commission It is recognised that the development of of years and the residential market was and in the circumstances set out below.
A competitive markets is not appropriate in opened to competition progressively, modication reference requires the some areas: the transmission and commencing in April 1996, with residual Competition Commission to investigate distribution of electricity and the operation controls on residential electricity prices having regard to the matters in relation to of the gas transportation system.
Any electricity which duties are imposed on the Secretary areas, regulatory controls are deemed supplier wishing to supply electricity to of State and the Authority and report on necessary to protect customers in | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 24 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background continued monopoly markets by determining of the price controls to place less emphasis anticipating climate change challenges with ination-limited price caps and to on periodic reviews and more emphasis on additions of renewable generation, encourage efficiency.
The groups UK continuous performance.
Following conservation and thermal resources as transmission and distribution businesses completion of the review, in April 2002, outlined in the IRP.
CO emissions risk has 2 are subject to price controls or revenue companies future revenues can be been anticipated in PaciCorps IRP controls in the case of the transmission adjusted by up to 2% to reect better or through the use of a carbon adder.
business which restrict the average worse than target performance and Ofgem PaciCorp also supports development of amount, or total amount, charged for a will seek to promote the visibility of asset trading and other market mechanisms, as bundle of services.
The price caps are risk management as a core competence in well as offset strategies, where feasible, to expressed in terms of an RPI X the price review process.
reduce future compliance costs to constraint on charges, where RPI customers.
The US Congress is currently represents the annual percentage change Environmental regulation considering several proposed bills that in the UKs retail price index, and X may be would create enforceable limits on any number determined by the Authority.
Throughout its operations, ScottishPower electricity plant emission of CO, sulphur 2 The X factor is used to reect expected will meet, or better, relevant legislative and dioxide SO, oxides of nitrogen NOx and 2 efficiency gains and investment regulatory environmental requirements and mercury.
It is not presently possible to requirements.
For example, where RPI is codes of practice.
ScottishPower will determine with certainty the level of capital running at 3% and X is 2%, a company publish its 2002 03 Environmental and expenditure related to air quality and CO 2 would be able to increase the average Social Impact Report in July 2003.
It is believed these amounts charge for a bundle of services by 1% per will be available on request from the could be significant but will be spread over annum.
The Authority from time to time Company Secretary.
PaciCorp also expects reviews the price cap formulae.
Through that the impact will be mitigated by participation in, and the submission of US environmental regulation recovery through regulatory ratemaking.
evidence to, these price control reviews and, where necessary, through the Federal, state and local authorities regulate In 1999, the EPA commenced enforcement Competition Commission modication many of PaciCorps activities pursuant to actions alleging violations of New Source process described above, companies have laws designed to restore, protect and Review requirements by the owners of the opportunity to comment on and seek to enhance the quality of the environment.
certain coal-red generating plants in the inuence the final outcome of any price These laws have increased the cost of eastern and mid-western US.
providing electricity service and give rise to not part of those actions.
However, in identiable contingencies, principally in December 2000, the EPA notied Transmission price control The revised respect of Clean Air Act matters, which are PaciCorp that it is investigating transmission price control for subjects of discussions with the US PaciCorps Carbon, Dave Johnston, ScottishPower took effect for the five years Environmental Protection Agency EPA Huntington and Naughton coal-red plants from 1 April 2000.
The BETTA review, which and state regulatory authorities.
PaciCorp and required it to provide information proposes a Great Britain-wide wholesale expects that future costs relating to these about their operation, maintenance, market for electricity and revised matters may be significant and consist emissions, utilisation and other aspects of arrangements in respect of the primarily of capital expenditure.
In early May 2003, the EPA interconnector between Scotland and expects these costs to be included in rates notied PaciCorp that it is investigating England, requires primary legislation.
The and, as such, not to have a material similar issues at the Bridger, Hunter and draft bill published in January 2003 is adverse impact on the groups Wyodak plants.
PaciCorp is cooperating expected to facilitate implementation by consolidated results or financial position.
with these investigations by providing 2005. requested information to the EPA.
No legal Air quality proceeding has been commenced.
Distribution price control The maximum PaciCorps fossil fuel-red electricity distribution revenue is calculated from a generation plants are subject to regulation Endangered species formula that is based on customer under federal, state and local requirements.
Protection of the habitat of threatened and numbers as well as units distributed.
Emission controls, low-sulphur coal, endangered species makes it difficult and Distribution price controls for the environmentally conscious plant operating more costly to perform some of the core ScottishPower and Manweb areas, which practices and continuous emissions activities of PaciCorp, including the siting, took effect for the five years from 1 April monitoring are all used to enable coalconstruction, maintenance and operation of 2000, have been subject to a review by the burning plants to comply with emission new and existing transmission and Authority aimed at ensuring that revenues and opacity limits, visibility and other air distribution facilities, as well as hydro, and outputs of the business are more quality requirements.
The EPA has initiated thermal and wind generation plants.
In closely matched and meet customers a regional haze programme intended to addition, endangered species issues impact expectations.
This has involved an improve visibility at specic federallythe relicensing of existing hydro-electric examination of the appropriate information protected areas some of which are located generating projects, generally raising the and incentives, and has led to a renement near PaciCorp plants.
PaciCorp is price PaciCorp must pay to purchase | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 25 wholesale electricity from hydro-electric UK environmental regulation Certicates.
The current objective is that facilities owned by others and increasing 10% of UK energy should come from the costs of operating PaciCorps own The groups UK businesses are subject to renewable sources by 2010 and a target of hydro-electric resources.
numerous regulatory requirements with 20% by 2020 was included in the February respect to the protection of the 2003 Government White Paper on energy.
Environmental clean-ups environment, including environmental laws ScottishPower continues to develop its Under the Federal Comprehensive which regulate the construction, operation windfarm business and expects to meet the Environmental Response, Compensation and and decommissioning of power stations, company target of 10% generation from Liability Act and similar state statutes, entities pursuant to legislation implementing renewables by 2010.
The Utilities Act also that accidentally or intentionally disposed of, environmental directives adopted by the EU provided for energy efficiency targets to be or arranged for the disposal of, hazardous and protocols agreed under the auspices of set for licensed suppliers to be materials may be liable for clean-up of the international bodies such as the United implemented by an Energy efficiency contaminated property.
In addition, the Nations Economic Commission for Europe Commitment and the emphasis remained current or former owners or operators of UNECE.
The group believes that it has clearly on energy saving in the Energy affected sites also may be liable.
PaciCorp taken and continues to take measures to White Paper.
has been identied as a potentially comply with applicable laws and responsible party in connection with a regulations for the protection of the The Environmental Protection Act of 1990 number of clean-up sites because of current environment.
Applicable regulations and EPA 1990 requires that potentially or past ownership or operation of the requirements pertaining to the polluting activities such as the operation of property or because PaciCorp sent environment change frequently, however, combustion processes which includes hazardous waste or other hazardous with the result that continued compliance power plant requires prior authorisation.
materials to the property in the past.
may require material investments, or that The Act also provides for the licensing of PaciCorp has completed several clean-up the groups costs and results of operation waste management and imposes certain actions and is actively participating in are less favourable than anticipated.
obligations and duties on companies which investigations and remedial actions at other produce, handle, and dispose of waste.
The costs associated with those actions Electricity generation, transmission, Waste generated as a result of the groups are not expected to be material to the groups distribution and supply electricity activities is managed to ensure consolidated results or financial position.
The Electricity Act obligates the Secretary compliance with legislation and waste of State to take into account the effect of minimisation is undertaken where possible.
Mining electricity generation, transmission, The federal Surface Mining and distribution and supply activities upon the Generation activities Reclamation Act of 1977 and similar state physical environment in approving The principal emissions from fossil-fuelled statutes establish operational, reclamation applications for the construction of electricity generation are SO, NOx, CO and 2 2 and closure standards that must be met generating facilities and the location of particulate matter, such as dust, with the during the operation and upon completion overhead power lines.
The Electricity Act main waste being ash, namely pulverised of mining activities.
These obligations requires the group to take into account the fuel ash and furnace bottom ash.
The stipulate that mine property be restored conservation of natural features of beauty primary focus of current environmental consistent with specic standards and the and other items of particular interest and, legislation is to reduce emissions of SO, 2 approved reclamation plan.
significant in terms of the Environmental Impact NOx and particulates, the first two of which expenditures are expected to be required Assessment Regulations, to carry out an contribute to acid rain.
A number of other as individual PaciCorp mining operations environmental assessment when it intends power station emissions and discharges are are closed and reclamation occurs.
The to construct significant overhead subject to environmental regulation.
costs associated with reclamation are transmission systems or power stations of subject to the regulatory process.
The group EPA 1990 is the primary UK statute PaciCorp expects to be allowed to recover also prepares formal statements on the governing the environmental regulation of these costs.
Preservation of Amenity and Fisheries in power stations.
In April 1991, it introduced line with the requirements of the Electricity a system of Integrated Pollution Control Water quality Act.
IPC for large scale industrial processes, The federal Clean Water Act and individual including power stations, now enforced state clean water regulations require a The Utilities Act provided for environmental with respect to emissions to atmosphere in permit for the discharge of wastewater, guidance to be given by the Secretary of England & Wales by the Environment including storm water runoff from the State to the energy regulator, Ofgem, and Agency EA and in Scotland by the electricity plants and coal storage areas, for regulations to be drawn up which Scottish Environment Protection Agency into surface waters.
PaciCorp believes that require licensed electricity suppliers to SEPA.
Each of ScottishPowers power it has management systems in place to secure a certain percentage of their stations is required to have its own IPC monitor performance, identify problems supplies from renewable energy sources, authorisation, issued by the EA or SEPA, and take action to assure compliance with compliance being demonstrated by regulating emissions of certain pollutants, permit requirements.
tradable Renewables Obligation seeking to minimise pollution of the | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 26 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background continued environment and containing an particular, gas-reburn technology, as used such as adoption, caring and development improvement programme.
Each IPC at Longannet, offers greater potential to breaks, disability, disciplinary and authorisation requires that a power station reduce emissions than other technology in grievance procedures, equal pay, uses the Best Available Techniques Not use elsewhere in the UK.
harassment, maternity and paternity, Entailing Excessive Cost BATNEEC to fertility treatment, race and sex prevent the emissions described above or, Contaminated sites discrimination, ill health and stress.
to the extent this is not practicable, to While the nature of developments in minimise and render harmless any such environmental regulation and control A more extensive description of how the emissions.
ScottishPowers IPC cannot be predicted, the group anticipates businesses discharge their wider authorisations do not have an expiry date, that the direction of future changes will be responsibilities to protect the welfare, but the EA or SEPA is required to review the towards tightening controls.
In view of the health and safety of the public and their conditions contained within them at least age and history of many sites owned by the employees, can be found in the once every four years and may impose new group, the group may incur liability in ScottishPower Environmental and Social conditions to prevent or reduce emissions respect of sites which are found to be Impact Report and the ScottishPower of pollutants, subject to the application of contaminated, together with increased Workplace Performance Report.
costs of managing or cleaning up such be available on the ScottishPower website.
Site values could be affected and A brief overview of the two most extensively The EU has agreed a Directive on potential liability and clean-up costs may regulated aspects of employee relations Integrated Pollution Prevention and make disposal of potentially contaminated follows.
Control, which introduces a system of sites more difficult.
The Contaminated Land licensing for industrial processes such as Regulations, which implement provisions of Equal opportunity power stations.
This Directive is being the Environment Act 1995 EA1995, US businesses implemented via the Pollution Prevention require local authorities to identify sites In the US, equal employment opportunities and Control Regulations PPC where significant harm is being caused and are provided without regard to race, colour, Regulations which will bring to take appropriate steps.
In order for harm sex, religion, creed, age, sexual orientation, modications to the IPC regime into effect, to be demonstrated it must be shown that national origin and physical or mental on a staged basis.
The EU Directive will a source of pollution, a receptor and a disability.
The group provides equal eventually require that all emission and pathway are present.
Harm may be opportunity for qualied applicants and pollution control measures are placed onto eliminated by clean-up or by breaking the employees and maintains a programme of a Best Available Techniques basis to source to receptor pathway.
Clean-up is afrmative action, pursuant to legal control impact on the environment.
only required to t for subsequent use requirements, in order effectively to employ standards, so that environmental minorities and women and to encourage The EU has adopted a framework directive compliance is consistent with the intended workforce diversity.
The programme also on ambient air quality assessment and use of the site.
covers disabled persons and veterans.
management and, under the auspices of Afrmative action programmes establish UNECE, protocols regarding reductions in Other proposals which may impose strict specic, results-oriented procedures: the emissions of SO and NOx have been liability for environmental damage are also determine whether effective utilisation of 2 agreed.
These are currently implemented in under consideration by the EU and a minorities and women is achieved: the EU by means of the Large Combustion directive may be brought forward.
establish numerical goals for the hiring and Plants Directive LCPD.
The EU is ScottishPower is not currently aware of any promotion of minorities and women: currently nalising a Ceilings Directive liability which it may have under EA1995 or incorporate equal employment principles which will implement the SO and NOx proposed EU directives which will have a in supervisory training: embed diversity 2 targets agreed in the UNECE Gothenburg materially adverse impact on its operations.
objectives in performance reviews: and Protocol.
In the UK, uncertainty remains promote effective community outreach surrounding implementation of the LCPD Employment regulation efforts for women and minority applicants.
and the EU has now provided guidelines on outstanding issues, including whether Numerous laws and related codes of During 2002 03, the Washington state compliance will be by emission limit values practice international, European, UK and Family Medical Leave Act Regulation was or will continue to be implemented in the US ensure that companies offer equal revised and both Washington and Oregon UK by means of the National Air Quality opportunities to all individuals, regardless states increased their minimum wage.
The Strategy published in 1997, and reviewed of gender, race, disability and age.
Jobs for Veterans Act updates previous in 2000.
The group has identied options Similarly, both the US and the UK have legislation and the new regulations will be that, given the appropriate commercial extensive legislation covering health and published in December 2003.
PaciCorp conditions, would enable it to continue the safety at work.
ScottishPower has wellreported data will comply with new environmental improvements required by dened policies in place throughout its regulations for 2004 reporting, and, in potential future limits arising from this businesses to ensure that there are equal response, PaciCorp will update the review, without materially constraining opportunities in employment.
These information it provides on the VETS-100 operational and commercial exibility.
In policies cover a range of specic issues, Report.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 27 UK businesses In the US, health and safety in mining new directives covering vibration, noise and The UK businesses work with both outside operations is regulated by the Mine Safety control of substances hazardous to health.
organisations and an internal equality and Health Administration MSHA All events that have scope for damage to forum to consider policies for racial electricity utility operations are regulated plant or people are investigated, the major equality, family issues, disabled people and by the Occupational Safety and Health ones being reviewed by investigating other key areas.
ScottishPower is afliated Administration OSHA and the gas panels, normally chaired by a member of with a number of organisations including storage business is regulated by both the senior management team.
The results the Equal Opportunities Commission, OSHA and the Ofce of Pipeline Safety as of these investigations are communicated Employers Forum on Age, Employers these apply.
PaciCorp and PPM have and, where applicable, recommendations Forum on Disability, Commission for Racial safety policies and procedures in place to are completed.
There is also increasing Equality and Parents at Work.
Internal comply with MHSA, OSHA and the Ofce of focus on the issue of occupational road human resources staffs work with these Pipeline Safety regulatory requirements.
risk, to ensure that safe driving at work and organisations to nd ways to incorporate Safety Management Systems similar to the work on the road is addressed as part of their expertise into group and business unit criteria to qualify for OSHAs Voluntary mainstream health and safety policies.
Protection Program are also being management and enforcement, with implemented in many of the businesses.
publication of new Health and Safety The Employment Act 2002 brought in Executive guidance in 2002.
Road risk requirements for exible working, adoption, The US businesses participate with other policies have been introduced within the maternity and paternity leave, tribunal industry stakeholders in the regulatory UK generation, strategic transactions and reform and trade union learning process on significant OSHA and MSHA energy management business units.
The UK businesses are in regulatory proposals affecting the utility Employees have been offered defensive the process of reviewing and updating and mining industries.
driving training and a monthly Well Aware policies on these issues to ensure they campaign on driving was held to raise the meet any new requirements.
They have UK businesses prole and employees understanding of also issued guidelines, reviewed procedures The UK businesses have implemented this important issue.
and carried out staff training to meet the Health and Safety Executive guidance on requirements of the key areas of focus successful health and safety management Business risks including equal access, data protection and HSG 65 and, where appropriate, have working time regulations and are working adopted the Royal Society for the Operating risk to harmonise terms and conditions relating Prevention of Accidents Quality Safety Operating risk is the risk that assets and to maternity and paternity leave, working Audit system to drive continuous mechanical systems, as well as business time and family policies.
processes and procedures, might not Occupational health provision in the UK perform as expected, with the result that Health and safety businesses includes compliance, the group may be unable to meet a portion US businesses rehabilitation and health promotion.
of its obligations without resorting to an The US businesses have well developed Monitored and audited by in-house unanticipated market transaction.
annual safety and health operational plans medical staff, advice on health risk Operating risk is primarily mitigated with monthly reporting of safety management and early intervention has through a combination of sound performance against key performance contributed to a reduction in sickness maintenance practices, prudent and safe indicators, which set accident metrics for absence.
Managers are encouraged to deal operational processes and insurance continuing improvement year-on-year.
All effectively with health issues in the products, such as business interruption safety rules and policies in place across the workplace and employees are encouraged insurance.
businesses are subject to periodic review to make lifestyle decisions that maintain and update.
Professional safety and health and improve their health.
Security risk departments are staffed in PaciCorps The emergence of terrorism threats, both power delivery, generation and mining In the UK, the Reporting of Injuries, domestic and foreign, is a risk to the entire businesses with an additional corporate Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences utility industry, including ScottishPower.
safety department providing policy input Regulations set out the requirements for Potential disruptions to operations or and senior management support for both reporting of all work-related accidents.
As destruction of facilities from terrorism are employee safety and health and for public UK regulators and enforcement authorities not readily determinable.
The groups US Health and Safety increasingly seek to raise the priority and identied critical assets and developed Committee provides executive oversight importance that companies give to health several levels of security to meet the and leadership in PaciCorp and PPM, is and safety issues, they are likely to take changed environment.
A project is comprised of senior executives, and meets action for any non-compliance.
underway in the US to implement a on a regular basis.
Major initiatives are security plan, starting with the most critical under way in PaciCorps power delivery, Recent changes in UK health and safety assets, to mitigate terrorism risks and to generation and mining business units and legislation include asbestos legislation, prepare contingency plans in case the in PPM to reduce and prevent accidents.
electrical safety and quality regulations, groups facilities are targeted.
Additionally, | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 28 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background continued in the US the FERC is promulgating not in rates, and also imposes a time-valueto restore, protect and enhance the quality standards to which the groups US of-money burden on PaciCorp.
Further, of the environment are similarly introduced businesses will be subject.
each commission decides what levels of through a process of intensive and expense and investment are necessary, generally EU-wide consultation with the In the UK, there is an established liaison reasonable and prudent in providing industry and other parties.
Nonetheless, with the Security Services and police, to service.
In the event that a commission there is a general tightening of ensure that our critical assets are protected decides that part of PaciCorps costs do environmental regulation and it must be against potential threat of terrorism.
not meet this standard, such costs will be recognised that the future impact of the disallowed and not recovered in rates.
For costs of such requirements cannot be Pension risk these reasons, the rates authorised by the forecast with precision.
As a result of the decline in the equity regulators may be less than the costs to Political risk markets and low interest rates, the group PaciCorp to provide electricity service to In the US, PaciCorp and PPM conduct anticipates that pension expense and cash its customers in a given period.
business in conformance with a multitude contributions into the pension schemes will of federal and state laws.
The US Congress increase in the near future.
The investment Nearly all of PaciCorp's hydro-electric at present is considering, significant risk is being addressed as part of the projects are in some stage of the FERC changes in energy, air quality and tax pensions review being undertaken by both relicensing under the FPA.
Energy legislation recently passed the group and its pension scheme trustees process is a political and public regulatory by the US House of Representatives would by focusing on the asset allocation of the process that involves sensitive resource make some changes in federal law affecting schemes.
PaciCorp is unable to predict the PaciCorp and PPM.
The proposed requirements that may be imposed during changes affect the hydro-electric licensing Regulatory risk the relicensing process, the economic process under the FPA and extension of the In the US the group is subject to the impact of those requirements, whether new renewable energy production tax credit, jurisdiction of federal and state regulatory licences will ultimately be issued or which would be likely to benefit PaciCorp's authorities.
The FERC establishes tariffs whether PaciCorp will be willing to meet efforts to develop, acquire and maintain a under which PaciCorp provides wheeling the relicensing requirements to continue low-cost generation portfolio and PPMs services to the wholesale market and the operating its hydro-electric projects.
efforts to continue developing its renewable retail market for states allowing retail energy portfolio.
Changes to the Clean Air competition, establishes both cost-based Federal, state and local authorities regulate Act contemplated by the proposed Clear and market-based tariffs under which many of PaciCorp's activities pursuant to Skies Act are being monitored closely in PaciCorp sells power at wholesale and has laws designed to restore, protect and that they may impact requirements for licensing authority over most of enhance the quality of the environment.
several emissions from fossil-fuelled PaciCorps hydro-electric generation PaciCorp is unable to predict what generation plants.
The utility regulatory commissions material impact, if any, future changes in in each state independently determine the environmental laws and regulations may The laws of the states in which PaciCorp rates PaciCorp may charge its retail have on the group's consolidated results or operates affect PaciCorp's generation, customers in that state.
Each states rate financial position.
All setting process is based upon that but two of the legislatures monitored by commissions acceptance of an allocated In the UK, the electricity and gas industries PaciCorp have concluded, or are close to share of total PaciCorp costs as its are regulated primarily through powers concluding, their business for their responsibility.
When different states assigned, under the Utilities Act 2000, to legislative year.
PaciCorp is not aware of adopt different methods to address this the Authority which licenses industry any new laws positively or negatively interjurisdictional cost allocation issue, participants, enforces licence conditions, affecting PaciCorp in any significant some costs may not be incorporated into regulates quality of service and sets pricing manner, based on a review of bills passed any rates in any state.
Rate making is done formulae for electricity transmission and by the Washington and Idaho legislatures on the basis of normalised costs, so if in distribution activities.
In principle, it has during their just completed legislative a specic year, realised costs are higher wide discretion in the exercise of its sessions.
Wyoming enacted an exemption than normal, rates will not be high enough obligation to act to protect the interests of to the state sales tax for renewable energy to cover those costs.
Likewise, if in a given customers, wherever appropriate by equipment, which may make development year costs are lower than normal or promoting effective competition, whilst the of wind energy resources in the state more revenues are higher, PaciCorp retains the need to ensure that licence holders are economically viable.
Wyoming also passed resulting higher-than-normal profit.
Each able to finance their functions is only one of legislation revamping the consumer commission sets rates based on a test a number of other factors to which the advocate staff role in commission year of its choosing.
In states that use a Authority must have regard.
Utah enacted legislation historical test year, rate adjustments can Authority operates through a process of authorising the UPSC to use a forwardfollow cost increases, or decreases, by up to extensive consultation and on prelooking test year of up to 20 months in two years.
Regulatory lag results in a delay determined timetables, making its activities setting rates.
This mechanism, if properly in recovery of costs currently incurred but relatively predictable.
Regulations designed | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 29 implemented, should enable the UPSC to set consistent rates that more accurately reect costs during the actual rate period.
California is expected to consider legislation repealing or reforming many elements of its 1996 restructuring law.
In the UK, energy policy has been set out in a Government White Paper, published in February 2003, which emphasises a continuing intention to make maximum use of market-based mechanisms whilst seeking to reduce the use of carbon, boost energy-saving and maintain efforts to mitigate the impact of fuel costs on lowerincome households.
There is particular emphasis on the use of renewable energy sources and developing discussion of the network enhancements likely to be required for the increased use of both renewables and embedded generation.
This policy framework offers opportunities for the group and has shaped a number of current business plans.
The White Paper has received broad endorsement across the UK political spectrum and appears to be largely consistent with EU policy generally.
However, as the policy outlined extends well into the future, it could be subject to change and amendment by future Governments.
Litigation ScottishPower is not aware of any material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business of the group, to which ScottishPower or any of its subsidiaries is a party, or any such proceedings known to be contemplated by any governmental authority.
