Business and Financial Review 1 The UK and Continental buyout market reduce the availability of debt.
The materially decreasing levels of activity in the Prices paid by private equity buyers for the quality European M&A markets, caused by a mixture of transactions have remained quite high and often have economic uncertainty and reduced corporate not reected the fall in values on the Stock Market.
confidence, which started in 2001, continued in In some cases this has caused ICG to turn down 2002.
Overall levels of M&A in 2002 were down investment opportunities.
Levels of leverage have on the previous year, which were signicantly reduced for the small transactions but not for the down on the levels seen in 2000. larger transactions where debt arrangers continue Within this much reduced M&A market, the to compete aggressively for the business.
Again it is private equity providers were particularly well expected that this situation will be the same in 2003. placed.
Many potential corporate buyers were 2 ICG and the European mezzanine market constrained by weak share prices, the difficulty of Last year mezzanine continued to have a good share raising new equity and the inability to substantially leverage up their balance sheets to make acquisitions.
of buyout nancing and was much in demand.
The The private equity funds targeting the European increased conservatism of banks, particularly in small markets have tens of billions of pounds available to and medium sized deals, is leaving a bigger gap for finance acquisitions.
This money, leveraged up by the mezzanine to ll between bank debt and equity.
debt which still remains available for the high quality The high yield market has proved unreliable.
transactions, made the private equity houses a very Consequently, mezzanine has been able to deliver potent force and the most likely buyer of a high finance in a form and at a price that private equity proportion of companies put up for sale.
sponsors consider adds value to the capital structure There were therefore a good number of of their investments.
These derived increasingly In 2001 ICG turned down a number of the larger from companies under financial pressure seeking to mezzanine opportunities as we thought that they were release cash, as well as the traditional buyout sources unattractively structured or priced.
In 2002 the of companies divesting to increase shareholder value mezzanine opportunities were more attractive and and secondary buyouts.
In addition as quoted ICG was involved in a higher proportion of them.
companies market capitalisations have materially Banks have been actively seeking and winning decreased we have started to see more public to one-stop shop mandates in which they arrange and private opportunities.
underwrite both senior debt and mezzanine.
These The buyout market started relatively slowly in banks have again been keen to have ICG supporting 2002, still suffering from uncertainty following 11th them in these transactions and agreeing to take a September.
The second half of 2002 showed a marked significant piece of the available mezzanine to improvement over the first half, with 23bn of deals reduce their underwriting risk.
In times of compared with 12bn in the first half.
This resulted nervousness in the financial markets ICG would in the total value of buyouts for 2002 amounting to expect this trend to continue.
35bn, only a slight decrease on the previous year.
A few banks who are seeking to build a significant Current global uncertainty will reduce activity in mezzanine portfolio on their own balance sheet the short term, particularly as investment decisions continue to compete actively in the market.
However, ICG believes that once the has been some increase in the activity of mezzanine Iraq crisis is resolved there should again be a funds in the year, with some new entrants and the satisfactory level of buyout activity for the same prospect of further new entrants in the current year.
The biggest competitive threat to ICG is from either Senior Debt to support buyouts continued to be one-stop shop banks or funds arranging mezzanine available last year from the banking market.
While on, what ICG regards as, uncommercial terms.
banks were cautious lenders to the smaller, riskier There continues to be opportunities for the use buyouts, they were enthusiastic lenders to the high of mezzanine in both recapitalisations of existing quality transactions.
The high yield bond market buyouts and for acquisition finance.
has provided finance for some buyouts but has not The increasing number of large buyouts and the been a reliable source of debt.
It is expected that this growing use of mezzanine in the buyout market situation in the debt markets will continue in 2003, together help to make the European mezzanine with the proviso that a more severe downturn could market attractive, with potential for continuing 7 Intermediate Capital Group Business and Financial Review continued growth.
Within this market ICGs competitive environment for mezzanine.
The strengthening of position is strong.
the Euro against sterling over the year resulted in the sterling value of euro denominated loans and 3 Overview of European high yield bond investments increasing by 30m.
and leveraged loan markets It is ICGs aim to diversify its risk by spreading its portfolio on both a geographic and sector basis.
In 2002 the European high yield High yield bonds At the end of the year, ICGs portfolio was spread bond market experienced its worst year yet with across nine countries in Western Europe, with its the rates and volumes of default increasing to first investment being made out of the Hong Kong materially higher levels than seen previously.
In Western Europe, ICGs strongest markets Heavy concentration of bonds in the cable and are in the UK and France, which between them telecommunications sectors was the principal account for 71% of the portfolio.
reason behind this increased default rate.
ICG continues to invest in a wide range of The European high yield primary market had a industrial sectors and at the end of the year the quiet year with new issue activity totalling a portfolio was spread across 31 sectors, with the e3.8bn, down almost 50% on the level disappointing largest exposure in any sector being 9%.
Overall new issue activity was more Details of the portfolio, including new loans and diversied and generally of a better credit quality repayments, may be found on the pages 11 to 15. than in prior years.
Leveraged buyout activity New loans and investments In a strong year for continues to signicantly contribute to new issuance, representing about 43% of the total volume priced new transactions, ICG underwrote or provided a in 2002.
In spite of the low level of new issues, the total of 523m of mezzanine loans and investments European high yield market grew by 35% in 2002, relating to twenty-two new deals.
ICG held 293m as former investment grade companies were of these on its own balance sheet, while 100m was downgraded due to credit concerns.
taken by fund management clients.
The balance of The benchmark returns in European high yield 130m was syndicated to third parties.
in 2002 were once again very poor, showing ICG completed nine new deals in France, five in the negative returns.
UK, two each in Switzerland, Netherlands and Sweden and one in Germany.
Additionally ICG completed its Leveraged loan market The first half of 2002 was first transaction in the Asia Pacic Region with a new very quiet in the wake of an almost total shut-down loan to a company in South Korea.
of the buy-out market in the fourth quarter of 2001.
ICG was the lead mezzanine investor on twelve The third quarter demonstrated a dramatic increase of the twenty-two deals completed.
Nineteen of in primary syndication activity, with a series of very these deals were in respect of buyouts, the others substantial transactions coming to market virtually being one each of acquisition finance, renancing at the same time.
Nearly all syndications went and development capital.
extremely well, reecting the generally high quality Repayments Due to the depressed M&A market, of transactions combined with high demand for leveraged loan product from banks and institutions.
ICG had another relatively quiet year for repayments The institutional demand reects the significant with a total of 133m repaid or prepaid in respect of amount of capital raised for the European loan thirteen companies.
The repayments resulted from market over the period and institutional market share trade sales, the renancing of mezzanine loans with increased from 3% to 17% over the last two years.
cheaper debt and a listing on the stock market.
New leveraged loan issuance amounted to Provisions It is ICGs policy to make specic approximately US $40 billion in 2002 and the pricing remained attractive.
provisions against any loan or investment where, in the opinion of ICGs management, the value of 4 The portfolio that loan or investment has become permanently During the year to 31 January 2003, ICGs portfolio impaired.
With the further deterioration of the of loans and investments increased by 25% from European economy last year, a small number of 704m to 876m.
This increase is higher than in companies in the portfolio continued to suffer from the previous year and arose from the attractive depressed trading and as a result of this, ICG made 8 Intermediate Capital Group provisions against three of these.
In addition, further mezzanine on behalf of its clients and, after 31m provisioning was made on four investments where a of repayments, including those from earlier fund partial provision had previously been made.
management arrangements, the amount invested on As a result of this, in the last financial year, ICG behalf of its clients at the end of the year amounted made 17.5m of provisions compared to a net charge to 319m compared with 250m at the beginning of 16.2m in the previous year.
At the end of the year of the year.
ICG continues to include in its profits ICGs total provisions amounted to 44.5m in respect carried interest received from some of the older of 9 loans and investments.
This represents 84% of maturing funds.
total cost of these loans and investments and 5% of The company is now working on raising a the gross loan book.
new mezzanine fund and it is anticipated that this will achieve a closing during the first half of our Shares and warrants As a result of its mezzanine financial year.
lending activity, ICG holds unquoted shares and High yield and leveraged loan fund management warrants in companies to which it lends and whose Last year, ICG raised a second leveraged loan value is not included in the balance sheet.
These investments, which are held in the balance sheet at fund, Promus II, following on from the successful cost, are valued by the Directors at 71m compared Promus I transaction in the previous year.
These funds to 55m at the beginning of the year.
This increase are focused much more on leveraged loans than high e1.5bn the total amount over the previous year, reects the growth in the yield bonds and bring to portfolio.
In addition to its portfolio of unquoted of non mezzanine funds under management.
Both shares and warrants, ICG also holds listed shares in Promus I and Promus II are being gradually invested two companies acquired as a result of earlier exits.
and the performance to date of both these funds is good.
Promus I is 66% invested and Promus II is 5 Fund management 46% invested.
The performance of ICGs two CDOs, raised in During the year, ICG continued to Mezzanine 1999 and 2000, have continued to suffer in particular invest its Mezzanine Fund 2000.
As this fund has from the severe under-performance of bonds in the fully invested its equity capital of 200m, a bank telecom related sectors.
While these two funds facility has been arranged and this is now being absolute performance continue to be disappointing, drawn so that the fund can continue to invest.
their relative performance is extremely good and In the year, ICG invested a further 100m of they have signicantly outperformed the market.
Value of funds under management m 1500 1200 900 600 300 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Mezzanine funds CDO funds Loan funds 9 Intermediate Capital Group Business and Financial Review continued 6 Borrowing and loan facilities Fee income Total fee income increased by 25% to At the end of the financial year, ICGs total 17.9m.
The higher level of new business led to borrowings amounted to 671m which is a significant arranging and underwriting fees increasing from increase over the gure at the beginning of the year.
This is as a result of the strong growth in the Fund management fees also increased during companys loan book.
At the start of the year, ICG the year from 8.8m to 9.3m.
Fees from the increased its banking facilities by 90m through a management of mezzanine assets was at at 6.3m new five year revolving credit facility and also this year including 2.0m of carried interest negotiated a further 50m of short-term facilities fees, a gure similar to last year.
Fees from the in the latter part of the year.
At the end of the year, management of the two CDO funds and the two the company had 142m of unutilised facilities Promus funds amounted to 3.0m against 2.6m and a gearing ratio of 3.1:1. in the previous year.
Recurring fees in the form of agency and 7 Shareholder funds monitoring fees increased from 0.8m to 1.1m At the end of the year, ICGs shareholder funds had for the current year.
Note 19 of the Expenses Administrative and operating expenses accounts shows the movement on shareholders funds.
Including the full value of quoted and unquoted increased from 11.3m the previous year to 14.5m shares and warrants referred to earlier, ICGs this year.
This increase was expected and arose from equity base has increased to 288m compared to a number of factors including increased staff costs 258m at the beginning of the year.
and a full years charge for both the new Hong Kong operation and the new larger London premises.
8 Results for the year These expenses represent 32% of core income.
ICGs results for the year to 31 January 2003 are Net capital gains ICG achieved capital gains summarised on page 1 of these statements.
Pre-tax profits increased by 28% to 53.5m, which arose during the year of 33.9m compared with 21.1m from both the increase in core income, which is the the previous year.
After the deduction of specic most important element of ICGs profits, and from provisions of 17.5m 2002 16.2m and the cost increased levels of capital gains compared to the of related employee incentives, net capital gains previous year.
The analysis of core income and of net amounted to 7.6m this year compared to 2.7m capital gains is shown in Note 3 to the accounts.
Capital gains were realised The pre-tax return on shareholder funds from nine companies of which eight were trade sales amounted to 25%.
profit after tax amounted to or renancings with the remaining one being from 35.1m compared to 28.9m for the previous year.
Undiluted earnings per share amounted to 59.8p The cost of the companys medium term compared to 49.3p last year.
incentive scheme including discretionary contributions to the companys employee benefit The constituent part of ICGs profit are: trust increased from 2.2m to 8.8m in the current year.
This was as a result of a higher level Core income Core income is the most important of gross capital gains coupled with triggering the element of ICGs profits.
It is dened as net interest maximum payout under the rules of the scheme income and dividend income plus fee income less as a result of meeting performance targets.
Core income increased by 18% to 45.9m for the financial year.
Net interest income Net interest income increased by 18% from 36.0m last year to 42.5m.
The rise in net interest income was due to a number of factors, including the growth in the loan book and the continuing use of roll up interest in the structure of mezzanine.
