OUR US ASSET MANAGEMENT BUSINESS ENJOYED A STRONG YEAR IN 2003, AIDED BY RESURGENT EQUITY MARKETS US REGIONAL DIVERSITY IN THE UNITED STATES, FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT GREW BY OVER 20% United States Business Review | 19 UNITED STATES BUSINESS REVIEW US LIFE Funds under management totalled $13.3 achieved despite the loss of $1.7 billion at billion at 31 December 2003, an increase of PBA in December, following the departures FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 27% over the year.
$110 million of capital was of the founders of that firm resulting from The macro-economic environment presented a injected into the US life business during the allegations of improper practice.
number of challenges to the US life business year to support new business written, in line during 2003, with interest rates falling to historic with plans.
Good investment performance was maintained lows.
These low interest rates, combined with for institutional mandates, which outperformed improving equity return expectations, resulted BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND OUTLOOK their respective benchmarks over three and in some movement of savings from fixed interest Having successfully stabilised sales volumes five years by 83% and 94% respectively.
Management and profitability through competitive positioning, Top quartile performance, relative to their responded to these challenges by developing a the business will continue to build on its strong peers over the same periods, was achieved multiple distribution and product strategy relationships with key distributors and its by 73% of these funds.
aimed at stabilising sales volumes and multi-distribution channel strategy.
Investment performance by the businesss The transition of policy administration to a mutual funds improved during 2003, with Adjusted operating profit of $143 million lower unit cost outsourcer is progressing and 72% delivering top quartile performance over increased by 15% over the $124 million is designed to improve customer service levels.
On an asset-weighted achieved in 2002, driven by the impact of By year end, the new third party administrator basis, fourand five-star funds, as rated by profits from the strong sales of fixed annuities was issuing 90% of all new policies.
Economies Morningstar Inc. comprised 76% of the in 2002, and by improving spreads and of scale and planned process improvements mutual fund portfolio at year end.
continued growth in life sales in 2003. should be evident in the financial results from 2005, after complete conversion of in-force BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Total APE for 2003, at $389 million, was 14% and new business.
A successful year in executing an organic lower than that achieved in 2002 $451 million.
growth strategy was soured by the discovery of Gross sales of $3.1 billion 2002: $4.0 billion The businesss bond portfolio, which is largely the personal involvement of the two founding in 2003 were, however, higher than in any year managed by fellow asset management subsidiary, members in alleged market timing irregularities prior to the acquisition of Fidelity & Guaranty Dwight, will continue to be managed actively, at PBA during the period from 1999 to 2001.
The value of new business with tight controls on matching assets and Old Mutual management took decisive steps at $59 million was 30% lower than in 2002 liabilities, and no more than 10% concentrated immediately upon discovery of these matters $84 million.
The average margin on new in the high-yield corporate bond sector.
to ensure that current and future interests of business after tax reduced from 19% of APE in PBAs clients and shareholders were upheld, 2002 to 15% of APE in 2003, which excludes US ASSET MANAGEMENT including the departure of the founders, and the value added from the block of business also conducted a review at the Groups other acquired for a nominal amount with Sage FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE US mutual funds to ensure adherence to best Life renamed OMNIA Life Bermuda.
While The Groups US asset management business practice governance policies.
Succession plans interest rate spread compression negatively delivered adjusted operating profit of $134 at PBA, which had already been put in place, impacted the margin, this was partly offset by million in 2003, a decrease of 6% on 2002 were accelerated and these have ensured profitability and sales volumes being stabilised $142 million.
However, when comparing the business continuity and the prospect of future through the establishment of an alternative results on a like-for-like basis, after taking into growth once all outstanding regulatory and corporate to corporate channel.
account the impact of disposed entities, legal matters are resolved.
adjusted operating profit increased by 6% from The business continued to grow strongly, as $126 million.
The equity market rally in the OUTLOOK new life assurance products launched during second half of 2003 and strong net cash Strengthening the presence of the Groups US 2003 were positively received by the market inflows were the key factors driving this positive asset management business in the higher and attracted significant premiums.
Average asset levels for 2003 were $136 margin retail market remains a key strategic annuity sales were offset by the favourable billion, compared to $126 billion excluding objective.
The diversity of styles and the strength response to a new range of equity-indexed disposed entities.
The improvement in the of the individual firms branding with third party annuity products.
As a result, Fidelity & equity-related component of total funds under distributors are being leveraged to provide Guaranty Life maintained its position as one of management also had a positive impact on  products to retail investors.
the top ten providers of fixed and equity-indexed revenue margins.
annuity products in the USA.
OMNIA Life Institutional fund management remains the Bermuda is an important new conduit to large Funds under management increased during core business.
New investment performance international banks, offering US-style products 2003 by 21% from $127 billion to $154 billion.
systems, developed in 2003, will allow to an international customer base and giving Affiliate divestitures of $3.3 billion were offset a broader range of product development direct exposure to variable annuity products.
by net client inflows of $4.7 billion and positive opportunities to be exploited and will provide market movements of $25.7 billion.
The net targeted marketing strategies to the sales The value of in-force business of $701 million client inflows were spread across the large teams.
New opportunities to distribute at the end of 2003 increased by 28% from majority of the affiliates, highlighting the alternative products and closed-end funds are $549 million at the beginning of the year.
attractiveness and strength of the diverse range being pursued, while the focus on sub-advisory of products.
These inflows included $1.8 billion investment mandate relationships continues.
from the Groups US life business, and were
