OUR UK BUSINESSES HAVE SET THEMSELVES CHALLENGING TARGETS FOR 2004 AND THEIR PERFORMANCE UK SO FAR HAS BEEN ENCOURAGING REGIONAL DIVERSITY WE HAVE A CLEARLY FOCUSED RANGE OF PRODUCTS FOR THE UK MARKET United Kingdom and Rest of World Business Review | 21 UNITED KINGDOM AND REST OF WORLD BUSINESS REVIEW Adjusted operating profit from the Groups The Groups remaining UK asset management INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING UK and Rest of World life assurance, asset businesses continued to grow and develop STANDARDS management and banking businesses was through further penetration of their respective 24 million in 2003, compared to 55 million markets.
OMAM UK delivered very good All EU listed companies are required in 2002.
This result includes the adjusted investment performance and strong new client by EU regulation to adopt International operating profit of the Groups operations in fund flows, particularly in hedge fund products.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in their the UK 15 million loss, offshore operations Selestia achieved excellent momentum in consolidated accounts from 1 January 2005. which include Old Mutual Asset Managers attracting fund flows through its online offering In order to meet this requirement, Old Bermuda OMAM Bermuda, Old Mutual during the year, and in November 2003 won Mutual established a Group-wide project in International and Old Mutual Fund Managers the Best Fund Supermarket award in the B2B July 2002 to address the impact of IFRS.
19 million, southern Africa excluding South category of the 2003 Online Finance Awards.
Africa 15 million and Nedcors offshore OMAM UK and Selestia generated positive The project is on track and nearing the halfbanking and asset management operations fund flows of 400 million between them, a way point.
The anticipated impact of IFRS, 5 million.
subject to the IASB issuing final standards in March 2004, is as follows: ASSET MANAGEMENT LIFE ASSURANCE some investment-type business currently Adjusted operating losses from the Groups The Groups life assurance operations in accounted for as insurance will be UK and Rest of World asset management southern Africa excluding South Africa and classified as financial instruments, businesses of 4 million compared to a profit of Old Mutual International contributed 15 million which will reduce premium income: 2 million in 2002.
These include the results of and 9 million respectively to the UK and the investment return in the profit Gerrard for the ten months to 31 October 2003, Rest of World results in 2003 2002: 3 million and loss account will be subject to as well as full year results for Old Mutual Asset loss.
The increase was largely due to the sale greater volatility: Managers UK OMAM UK, Selestia, of Old Mutual Internationals International Palladyne Asset Management BV, OMAM Personal Portfolio Bond book, which released options and other share-based payments Bermuda, Bright Capital and Nedcors 4 million to profit.
issued to employees will require a charge offshore asset management operations.
to the profit and loss account and will be Selestias adjusted operating loss of 14 million Julian V F Roberts revalued at each balance sheet date: was included within the UK and Rest of World Group Finance Director life assurance result in 2002.
17 March 2004 transactions between shareholders funds and policyholders funds will be The Group realised 240 million, including a eliminated under IFRS: 30 million release of capital, from the sale of an increased portion of financial Gerrard, following a successful restructuring instruments will be carried at fair value: of the business.
and dividends will be recognised in the period during which they are paid.
The proposed IFRSs on Business Combinations and Insurance Contracts are expected to have an impact on the Group.
The estimated external resource cost at the Group level is expected to be in the range of 15 million to 25 million over the three years of the project, excluding the cost of any required systems work.
The Groups businesses are also incurring additional costs to implement IFRS and this will vary depending on the impact IFRS has on each business.
