Business review Introduction The review is divided into the following BT Group plc is the listed holding company for an sections: integrated group of businesses that provide voice 8 Introduction and data services in the UK and elsewhere in Europe.
8 Group strategy British Telecommunications plc is a wholly-owned 9 Customer satisfaction subsidiary of BT Group plc and holds virtually all 9 Broadband businesses and assets of the BT group.
Our collective 9 Reporting on BT Openworld aim is to create shareholder value through service 9 Restructuring excellence, an effective brand, our large-scale networks Demerger of mmO 2 and our existing customer base, and also through Acquisitions and disposals developing and marketing new, higher-value Property broadband and internet products and services.
Concert BT consists principally of three lines of business: BT Retail, BT Wholesale and BT Global Services 10 Debt reduction programme formerly BT Ignite.
10 Dividend In the year ended 31 March 2003 the 2003 10 Pension fund financial year, 94% of our revenues were derived from 10 Lines of business operations within the UK, where we are the largest 11 BT Retail full service telecommunications operator, serving over Core business 20 million customers.
BT Retail and BT Wholesale New-wave business operate almost entirely within the UK, addressing Internet access the consumer, major business, business and wholesale Enhanced customer access markets, and offer a broad spectrum of 13 BT Wholesale communications products and services.
Our aim is to increase profitable revenues from data and advanced Core business broadband and internet services and to reduce further Changing market conditions our dependence on revenues and profit generated by Strategic intent xed-line voice services.
External new business revenues For a summary of turnover for our lines of business Broadband for the years ended 31 March 2001, 2002 and 2003, 21st century network see the table on page 10. efficiency 15 BT Global Services Corporate identity Meeting customers needs In early April 2003, we unveiled a new corporate Solutions and value-added services identity to replace the piper logo and reect our Customer wins strategy.
Because it represents BT as part of the Business realignment multimedia age and communicates our global reach, this change better reects the range of activities that Global reach we encompass.
16 Other businesses The new mark is the companys first visual identity 16 Research and development and IT support change since 1991.
17 Our people 18 Regulation, competition and prices Governance Regulation in the UK BTs policy is to achieve best practice in our standards Competition of business integrity in all our operations, in line with Pricing regulation our published statement of business practice The Way Non-UK regulation We Work.
This includes a commitment to maintaining Other significant changes and issues the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the group see pages 53 to 57.
23 Relationship with the UK Government 23 Legal proceedings Corporate social responsibility BT is committed to maximising its positive impact Please see cautionary statement regarding on society through leadership in CSR corporate social forward-looking statements on page 142. responsibility.
In our view, a well managed CSR All customer numbers are given as at 31 March programme supports the delivery of strategy and 2003, unless stated otherwise.
is in the best interests of the business, customers, EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, shareholders and the community see pages 24 to 25. depreciation and amortisation.
The denition, reconciliation and reasons for disclosing EBITDA Group strategy are discussed in the Financial review.
In 2002 BT set out its three-year strategy to create value for shareholders by being the best provider of communications services and solutions for everybody in 8 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review the UK, and for multi-site organisations with European appointment of BTs first Chief Broadband officer, operations, achieving global reach through partnership.
whose role is to direct and align the people and We have seven strategic priorities: processes involved in the end-to-end delivery & to deliver the highest levels of customer of broadband.
satisfaction performance and reduce the number of dissatisfied customers each year Reporting on BT Openworld & to achieve organic profitable revenue growth, With effect from 1 January 2003, the former BT while carefully controlling capital expenditure Openworld results have been reported within BT Retail.
& to put broadband at the heart of BT, expand the BT Openworlds internet access and portal services market for broadband services and create a remain as a separately run business.
All other parts of media-enabled network the BT Openworld portfolio, including GamesDomain & to provide solutions and other value-added services and Dotmusic, together with the customer service and for multi-site organisations with European operations network operations teams, have been integrated into & to place all UK networks under a single BT Retail.
management structure and to limit investment in This reorganisation has already delivered cost legacy voice and data platforms, while migrating savings and efficiency gains, mostly arising from the operations to new platforms avoidance of duplication in administrative and other & to move into broadband and mobility services for support activities.
consumers: and also into advanced services, such as communications solutions and outsourcing for major Restructuring business customers: and ICT information and During the 2002 financial year, we substantially communications technology for SME small and completed a radical restructuring programme, the medium enterprises key elements of which were: & all delivered by diverse, skilled and & the UKs largest-ever rights issue 1.98 billion motivated people.
new shares were issued to shareholders who took up their rights, raising 5.9 billion, net of expenses & Customer satisfaction the demerger of the majority of BTs mobile Reducing customer dissatisfaction by 25% a year is a businesses to create two separate listed companies key target in our drive to deliver the highest levels of BT Group plc and mmO plc 2 & customer satisfaction.
the disposal of significant non-core businesses BT has an extensive programme of quantitative and assets & customer research run by external agencies to assist the unwind of Concert, BTs joint venture us to focus on the level and causes of customer with AT&T & dissatisfaction.
the creation of customer-focused lines of business & This research shows we achieved a 37% reduction a major programme of debt reduction.
in customer dissatisfaction over the year, beating the target of 25%.
All areas of the business improved Demerger of mmO 2 satisfaction levels, with particularly significant On 19 November 2001, we completed the demerger improvement among our international and wholesale of mmO, comprising what were BTs wholly-owned 2 customers.
Although in most areas customer mobile assets in Europe: O UK formerly known as 2 satisfaction is well ahead of our competitors, we will BT Cellnet, O Communications Ireland formerly 2 strive to make further significant improvements.
known as Esat Digifone, Telfort Mobiel, Viag Interkom, A programme has been put in place that focuses on Manx Telecom and Genie.
Shareholders received one key areas of customer dissatisfaction.
share in mmO plc and one share in BT Group plc for 2 each share they previously held in British Broadband Telecommunications plc.
Trading in BT Group plc and Broadband is at the heart of our strategy and, mmO plc shares began on 19 November 2001.
2 during the year, we made progress in our drive to BT and mmO, through arms length negotiations, 2 enhance the awareness, availability and attractiveness entered into a number of agreements to define the of broadband.
continuing relationship between the groups, including As at 16 May 2003, we had 936,000 ADSL the agreement that, until November 2004, we will asymmetric digital subscriber line connections and are exclusively promote the mobile products and services on track to meet our target of one million connections of O UK to the business market in the UK.
The speed at which this is happening The agreements that we would not offer mobile is generating economies of scale that will help us products and services to the consumer market in the continue to reduce costs and progress beyond the one UK solely under the BT brand, and that parts of mmO 2 million gure.
were able to use some of our trademarks and brands A series of technological breakthroughs can, on a transitional basis, both lapsed on 31 March 2003. for the first time, bring ADSL within potential reach of 90% of UK homes and small businesses within Acquisitions and disposals the next few years.
Between the 1999 and 2002 financial years, BT made In November 2002, as further evidence of our a number of significant acquisitions, including taking commitment to broadband, we announced the stakes in Japan Telecom and J-Phone Communications BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 9 Business review in Japan, and control of Viag Interkom in Germany, and supplier contracts that we originally contributed and Esat Telecom and Esat Digifone in the Republic to Concert.
Concert assets that have been returned of Ireland.
During the 2002 financial year, reecting to us are now managed by BT Global Services while the change in the groups strategy, we disposed of a Concert customers that have been returned to us are number of businesses and assets, including Yell our now managed partly by BT Global Services and partly international directories and e-commerce business by BT Retail.
and our stakes in Japan Telecom, J-Phone Simultaneously with the completion of the Communications and Airtel, the Spanish wireless termination of the Concert joint venture, AT&T operator.
The consideration received enabled us to acquired BTs share of our Canadian joint venture, focus on our core businesses and to reduce net debt.
through which we held an indirect minority In January 2003, we completed the sale of our 26% shareholding in AT&T Canada.
As a result, BT no stake in Cegetel Groupe SA, the leading alternative longer has any obligations in relation to AT&T Canada.
xed-line operator in France, to Vivendi Universal for 2.6 billion in cash.
After accounting for goodwill Debt reduction programme written back from reserves, BT realised a profit of Net debt has been reduced from 27.9 billion as at approximately 1.5 billion before an exceptional 31 March 2001 to 9.6 billion as at 31 March 2003. interest charge of 0.3 billion on closing out xed Key to the reduction in the 2003 financial year was interest rate swaps.
the disposal of our stake in Cegetel and operating In the 2003 financial year, we disposed of a cash ow improvements.
number of non-core investments, including stakes in BSkyB, Mediaset, Blu and SmarTone.
Dividend No material acquisitions were made in the 2003 In 2002, we returned to the dividend list with the financial year.
payment of a final dividend for the 2002 financial year.
An interim dividend of 2.25 pence per share for the Property 2003 financial year was paid in February 2003, and In December 2001, as part of our wider property a final dividend of 4.25 pence per share is proposed outsourcing arrangement, we completed the sale and for payment in September 2003. leaseback of the majority of our UK property portfolio to Telereal, a 50 50 joint venture partnership between Pension fund Land Securities Trillium and the William Pears Group, The latest triennial funding valuation of the groups for 2.4 billion in cash.
Approximately 6,700 properties dened benefit pension scheme, the BT Pension ofces, telephone exchanges, vehicle depots, Scheme, was performed by the independent actuary warehouses, call centres and computer centres as at 31 December 2002.
The valuation showed the equating to approximately 5.5 million square metres, assets of 22.8 billion to be sufficient to cover 92% were transferred.
Under these arrangements, Telereal of the liabilities, with a resulting deficit of 2.1 billion.
is responsible for providing accommodation and estate With effect from April 2003, the regular company management services to BT.
contributions have increased to 12.2% of employees We retained direct ownership of approximately pensionable pay from 11.6%, and the annual 220 properties including certain telephone deficiency payment has increased to 232 million from exchanges, computer centres and high radio towers 200 million.
The group remains committed to making totalling some 800,000 square metres.
We also good the funding deficit.
retained BT Centre, our headquarters building, Adastral Park, our major research facility near Ipswich, Lines of business Madley and Goonhilly earth satellite stations and the The following table sets out the group turnover for BT Tower in Central London.
each of our lines of business in the 2003, 2002 and In the third quarter of the 2003 financial year, 2001 financial years.
Group turnover we provided 198 million against the costs of vacating 2003 2002 2001 and disposing of surplus London ofces, as we Years ended 31 March m m m rationalise from 14 buildings to five.
BT Retail 13,301 12,811 12,541 BT Wholesale 11,260 12,256 11,728 Concert BT Global Services 5,251 4,472 3,468 On 1 April 2002, we completed the unwind of Concert, Other 41 70 138 our international joint venture with AT&T, which Intra-group 11,126 11,162 10,734 involved the return of Concerts businesses, customer accounts and networks to the two parent companies.
Total continuing activities 18,727 18,447 17,141 As a result of the unwind, we have largely taken Total discontinued activities 2,112 3,286 back into our ownership those parts of Concert Totals 18,727 20,559 20,427 originally contributed by us to the joint venture, while AT&T has taken back into its ownership those parts it originally contributed.
We have acquired substantially all of Concerts managed services network infrastructure in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Americas, and substantially all of the customer 10 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review BT Retail distinction between local and national calls abolished, Years ended, or as at, in favour of a single UK rate.
31 March 2003 2002 2001 & During the 2003 financial year, we reduced the Group turnover 13,301m 12,811m 12,541m costs of our payphones operation through removal of over 18,000 payphones from sites where there is a No.
We remain committed to retaining BT Retail is the UKs largest communications service payphones in locations, such as rural communities, provider, by market share, to the residential and where there is no suitable alternative.
It trades under one of the UKs The launch in December 2002 of our new leading brands BT and is the prime channel to directories operation provides customers with a market in the UK for other businesses in the BT group.
one-stop directory enquiries and information service It supplies a wide range of communication products on a single number 118 500.
In addition to the and services, including voice, data, internet and number service, our acquisition in August 2002 of the multimedia services, and offers a comprehensive range business of Scoot.
com, the business nder directory of managed and packaged communications solutions.
service, enables customers to access classied listings Its strategy is to improve the customer experience, and other enhanced information services.
control costs and increase cashow, defend core revenues and build new revenue streams.
Major business & The core portfolio covers traditional telephony BT Retail helps its major business customers to products such as calls, analogue digital lines and manage their communications spend, using a free PC-based tool to analyse customer bills BT Billing private circuits.
New revenue generation is focused Analyst.
This assists in pinpointing areas of inefficiency, on broadband, mobility and ICT.
identifying unnecessary calls at premium or peak rates BT Retail has three main customer groups: and combating fraud.
A consulting service is being consumer residential customers, major business introduced which uses this information to construct corporate customers and the public sector and business usually companies of up to 500 employees.
& It has approximately 19 million consumer customers The deregulation of inbound 0800 numbers means and over one million business customers, including that we can offer bespoke pricing to our largest call major business customers.
Core business Business As at 31 March 2003, BT Retail had more than In the business market, our strategy is to provide 29 million customer lines exchange line connections, business customers with a simpler and tailored service, nine million of which were business lines and lines for thereby creating greater certainty and predictability in other service providers, and the remainder of which their business.
We continue to defend and acquire were for residential customers.
telephony contracts through our BT Business Plan and Fixed-network call revenues, including rental and BT Commitment portfolio against the carrier pre-select connection charges, accounted for approximately 29% and wholesale line rental services.
& of our revenues in the 2003 financial year.
The number Between October 2002 and March 2003, the of business lines remained stable, although high-speed number of business customers on the BT Commitment ISDN services grew by over 6%.
Reward discount package doubled to over 60,000.
& In the residential xed-voice call market, BT In January 2003, BT became the first UK Retails share remained stable over the year at around telecommunications company to cap the cost of 73%, as it has been since June 2000.
The number of business calls by launching BT Business Plan which sets residential voice lines grew by 0.2%.
Our market share a ceiling of 10 pence on local and national calls provided only that they last less than an hour.
At the of the business xed voice sector for the 2003 financial end of March 2003, BT Business Plan had attracted year was 45%, compared with 49% for the 2002 over 20,000 business customers.
Over the same financial year.
period, the awareness of the plan among business customers reached 33.5%.
Consumer Our residential business saw revenue growth, for the first time for a number of years, driven by stable New-wave business market share, stable customer numbers and growth In total, BT Retail grew new-wave revenues from in national calls.
582 million in the 2002 financial year to 850 million & During the 2003 financial year, the BT Together in the 2003 financial year, a 46% increase.
pricing packages, whichoffer arange of competitive call prices and xed-fee pricing options, continued to win Consumer & customers.
As at 31 March 2003, ten million customers The launch during the year of BT Broadband is had signed up for BT Together, accounting for 70% of key to our approach to helping build the broadband residential customer call minutes.
In April 2003, we market in the UK.
For 27 per month, BT Broadband announced that BT Together would be streamlined with customers get instant connection to the internet, effect from 1 June 2003, per-minute charging for unlimited access with no time restrictions, the evening and weekend calls would be removed and the opportunity to use the phone and surf at the same BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 11 Business review time, speeds up to ten times faster than a normal an 83 million five-year extension to a current contract connection, and access to a range of content and with the National Australia Group to manage its service providers, including a range of e-mail choices.
information and communications technology services: Free connection special offers and reduced modem a 168 million agreement with the NHS Information prices for customers ordering online helped to drive Authority, to upgrade the existing NHSnet demand and, as at 31 March 2003, BT Broadband infrastructure to a broadband platform, linking more had 137,000 customers.
than 7,000 NHS sites in England: and a 136 million & BT Retail launched two new ventures in the second contract over ten years with Bradford & Bingley to half of 2002, both designed to provide new revenue install wide and local area networks to connect more streams, and to promote the uptake of broadband.
In May 2003, BT was BT Click&Buy is an on-line payment service, part of a consortium which was awarded a multi-million particularly suited to small transactions.
BT Home pound outsourcing agreement with Royal Mail to Computing is a complete package, covering choice manage business and IT services.
& of broadband-ready PC, installation by a BT engineer During the 2003 financial year, year-on-year and ongoing support.
growth of 8% was achieved in the outsourcing & We announced a number of initiatives under business: 58% in IP internet protocol infrastructure: the Home of Possibilities banner, which extend and 416% in broadband.
New businesses revenues the benets of broadband further into the home.
grew signicantly during the 2003 financial year, These include home networking products which e. g. revenues from mobility were 41 million.
enable multiple devices to share a single broadband There was also significant revenue growth from connection, home monitoring services which provide BT Broadband, managed desktop solutions and customer alerts via text, voice or e-mail and home CRM customer relationship management activity.
& Under the theme of Connecting your world.
& We continued to bring the internet to the high Completely, we launched a suite of mobile solutions street with a programme to increase the number of during the financial year, to support corporate e-payphones from 500 to 20,000 by 2007.
The new customers in meeting their business requirements, kiosks enable customers to surf the internet, send webnot just in the ofce or the regular place of work, based and instant e-mails, and send text messages to but also on the move.
Mobile Ofce, for example, mobile phones, as well as make payphone calls.
During offers customers secure, managed connections to the 2003 financial year, we installed 1,200 new kiosks.
their corporate infrastructure, including internet & During the year, BT Retail returned to the and intranet, e-mail and back ofce systems.
& consumer mobile market with Mobile Sense, a service The installation of 122 live BT Openzone-enabled enabling customers to select their own call charge areas in stations, airports, hotels and motorway service package online.
In February 2003, BT and T-Mobile stations in the 2003 financial year helped BT maintain UK formed a partnership with the aim of delivering a competitive position in the UK market for public a consumer-led mobile service in the summer of 2003. wireless LAN local area network.
BT Openzone offers & BT Openworld achievements during the 2003 the opportunity to conduct high-speed transactions financial year included the launch: in December 2002 while on the move.
The target is to install 400 hotspots of the Dotmusic on Demand service, offering by summer 2003, and 4,000 by summer 2004.
& downloads of more than 150,000 music tracks: CRM developments included a strategic alliance in partnership with ukbetting plc, Sportev Ltd and with Eckoh Technologies, to provide speech recognition InTheBox Media, of Sportal on Demand, the UKs first technology and the first pay as you go contact broadband sports network: in March 2003 the BT centre service.
& Learning Centre, which aims to enable parents and Closer collaboration with strategic partner Siebel children to learn more effectively online.
In addition, Systems Inc, on solutions for local government, should BT Openworld introduced a number of new, valuenow make it possible for citizens to deal with their local added services during the year, including anti-spam authority using a range of media post, e-mail, functionality and virus protection and was approved internet, telephone or text message.
as an ADSL supplier for Microsofts Xbox Live and Sonys PlayStation 2 online games services.
Business & BT Openworld remained the leading ISP internet Major business service provider for SMEs and, in an extremely Our ICT objective is to grow our share of selected competitive market, increased market share to 31% growth markets.
These are the markets in which in the 2003 financial year source: Oftel share communication and network skills are significant, of ISP market for one to 250 employee businesses.
migration is from our core markets, our brand has BT Openworld grew its broadband SME customer base value and in which partnerships profitably supplement by 215% to over 132,000 by the end of March 2003. our capability.
More than 80,000 business customers now use a BT & Major outsourcing deals signed by BT Retail in Openworld value-added service, such as the Internet conjunction with BT Global Services during the year Business Pack, which helps SMEs establish a include a 125 million deal with Abbey National to professional online business presence.
BT Openworlds install and manage a consolidated company-wide broadband portfolio continues to develop.
SMEs can integrated voice and data telecommunications solution: choose from a wide range of different products and 12 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review value-added services, with access speeds varying from announced that we would be opening new contact 512 Kbits to 2 Mbits and with functionality that centres in New Delhi and Bangalore.
& enables up to ten PCs to share a single access link.
During the financial year, we embarked on & By March 2003, we were converting business a programme to transform and expand our online customers to broadband at the rate of one line every relationships with customers.
At 31 March 2003, minute based on a 40 hour working week.
we had a total of almost four million online & Sales of IP telephone systems increased relationships, and over 300,000 customers receiving substantially.
30% of all the telephone systems now e-bills.
We continued to extend the range of online sold by BT Retail in the SME market are either pure IP services, particularly those made possible by broadband or a hybrid of IP and conventional systems.
With the and mobile access.
This programme made a significant launch of the Versatility system in November 2002, contribution to our cost reduction achievements in the BT Retail now offers convergent telephone systems 2003 financial year.
& suitable for all customers, regardless of size.
Our integrated multi-channel transformation & To complement the growth in sales of IP-based programme aims to change the way BT Retail serves network infrastructure, we launched BT Business major business customers.
The programme is focused Software a range of messaging and collaboration on improving the customer experience and reducing tools and Open Orchard a new venture offering the cost of sale through integrated web and desk-based software applications and consultancy to access, and on increasing market reach and adding mid-market customers.
value through our strategic partners.
significant cost & The launch of Mobile Worker in August 2002 savings were delivered by deploying online service was BT Retails first offering as a service provider.
support to 500 customers, handling 3,000 transactions It connected 3,500 handsets by the end of March per day by the end of March 2003.
The new 2003, and we also launched BT Business Mobile, tele-channel opened 10,500 new leads, and closed a bespoke tariff for business customers.
Our indirect channel partners made a significant contribution.
Internet access At 31 March 2003, BT Openworld had approximately BT Wholesale 1.75 million UK consumer and business ISP customers, Years ended, or as at, 31 March 2003 2002 2001 making it one of the leading internet access providers in the UK.
Group turnover 11,260m 12,256m 11,728m During the year, the rate of growth of internet No.
of employees 000 27.6 29.8 30.0 penetration in the UK slowed and the narrowband dial-up market showed signs of maturity.
Against this background, BT Openworlds strategy is to create Core business a profitable business and drive the growing BT Wholesale provides network services and solutions broadband market.
within the UK, including ADSL, conveyance, transit, BT Openworlds narrowband business continued bulk delivery of private circuits, frame relay and ISDN to prove itself to be sustainable and viable.
integrated services digital network connections.
It BT Openworlds strategy is to increase its profit serves more than 500 communication companies, xed from this area, while simultaneously migrating and mobile network operators, and service providers, narrowband customers onto broadband access services.
including BT Retail and BT Global Services.
It aims to This strategy is designed to increase revenues and build complete communications packages and works provide customers with a superior internet experience.
with its customers to help them succeed in their During the year, BT Openworld grew its broadband businesses.
BT Wholesale has 885 local and trunk customer base by 171% to over 290,000 and it processor units, 119 million kilometres of copper wire remains the leading ISP supplier for broadband ADSL and six million kilometres of optical bre.
Consistent with our strategy, BTs UK networks are now managed by BT Wholesale this includes the Enhanced customer access UK PSTN public switched telephone network, ATM We continued to use new technology to develop more asynchronous transfer mode and IP networks.
Together, they constitute the most extensive & We remained on track in the development of telecommunications network in the UK, capable of next-generation multifunctional contact centres, an touching virtually every home and business.
upgrading of the traditional call centre.
Eight of The fact that all UK network capital expenditure the planned 31 centres in the UK, all of which will decisions are now made by one team has enabled BT be equipped with state-of-the-art CRM systems, were Wholesale to reduce the capital expenditure it controls completed during the year.
Increased efficiencies by realising synergies through more efficient network achieved cost reductions of 86 million on track planning and responding quickly to worsening market to reach the target of 150 million annual savings by conditions.
This is the capital expenditure of the end of the 2004 financial year.
The restructuring BT Wholesale and of BT Global Services on the UK IP was achieved without compulsory redundancy.
network, which together has been reduced from Specialist broadband contact centres were set up in 2,109 million in the 2002 financial year to 1,793 Newcastle and Exeter, and in March 2003 BT Retail million in the 2003 financial year.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 13 Business review Changing market conditions of UK households are connected to ADSL-enabled In 2003, the UK telecommunications market continued exchange areas.
& to experience its most significant slowdown in many We developed and implemented a demand years.
BT Wholesales external turnover declined by registration scheme.
Under this scheme, people in 11%, and our internal turnover reduced by 7% in the areas where the local exchange has not been upgraded 2003 financial year, reecting the downward pressure for broadband ADSL can register their interest via a on prices, a slowdown in volume growth and the service provider.
Over 800 exchanges have been given unwind of Concert.
a trigger level, indicating the number of customers required to make enabling that exchange commercially Strategic intent viable with trigger levels for a further 759 exchanges BT Wholesale intends to be number one in broadband already planned for the next financial year.
At 31 March and data services in the UK.
This intent is underpinned 2003, more than 320,000 people had registered an by six strategic imperatives: to lead the market in interest: 44 exchanges had been broadband enabled customer satisfaction: to grow profitable revenues: as a result of the scheme with a further 247 having to achieve best-in-class costs: to deliver commercially reached their trigger levels.
& successful broadband: to create a 21st century We continued to explore commercially viable ways network: and to create a high performing, customerto roll out broadband services to smaller communities.
For example, we began trials of a new commercial model for broadband exchange activation, using External new business revenues lower-cost exchange technology and a sponsoring BT Wholesale is moving into new markets.
The organisation with a social, development or emphasis is changing from the regulated, capitalcommercial interest in bringing broadband to the area intensive products in our traditional portfolio, to providing up-front funding.
The Exchange Activate internet connectivity, network facilities management, trial was run in eight sites across the UK.
In April 2003, mobility, equipment, and content and applications.
BT Wholesale announced that it would be proceeding In total, BT Wholesale grew its new business with the full implementation of Exchange Activate from revenues from 102 million in the 2002 financial year July 2003.
& to 189 million in the 2003 financial year 85% We began a trial of new broadband symmetric growth.
Key contract wins in the 2003 financial year services for business customers based on SHDSL included a six-year, full network outsourcing contract symmetric high-speed digital subscriber line.
Over the next 12 months, a series of developed using SHDSL are capable of supporting a key product and service launches are expected to range of services for service providers and businesses, continue this growth, focusing on innovation and including e-mail, web-hosting, video conferencing, a exible route to market.
VPN virtual private networks and WAN wide area This focus on new business goes hand in hand network.
The trial is planned to run until mid-summer with maintenance of the traditional interconnect 2003 and in 100 exchanges within London, business, from which the majority of BT Wholesales Manchester, Birmingham, Yorkshire, Merseyside external revenues 3,283 million traditional and parts of Scotland.
interconnect business revenues in the 2003 financial year were derived.
21st century network At the heart of BT Wholesales strategic intent to be Broadband the UKs number one in broadband and data is our As at 31 March 2003, BT Wholesales installed base of commitment to create a world-leading, commerciallyADSL lines was around 800,000, including lines for BT focused, market-driven UK network, which fulls Broadbands 137,000 customers and BT Openworlds customer requirements today and anticipates their 290,000 customers, representing growth of 380% future needs.
Since January, we have been Our commitment to the quality and reliability of adding well over 20,000 connections per week and at the PSTN and narrowband remains undiminished.
Early 16 May 2003 total connections were 936,000.
We are choices will be made on appropriate next generation on target to reach one million connections technology to replace the oldest narrowband switches, in summer 2003. but the plan is for a long-term migration.
There were a number of notable BT Wholesale BT Wholesale plans to build an advanced achievements in the broadband arena during the year.
broadband network based on IP standards.
This is All of these helped drive up demand for, and access a major change from traditional telecommunications to, broadband.
It will consist of very high-capacity & The monthly rental charged to wholesale routers connected together by an optical network customers for a consumer broadband connection capable of meeting many years of future customer was reduced on 1 April 2002 from 25 to 14.75. demand for voice, video and data services.
This will This reduction was quickly reected in the retail be designed to make BT simpler and more efficient prices charged by ISPs.
& We ADSL-enabled a further 67 exchanges, The objective is to build this network using bringing the total to 1,167, ensuring that 67% stringent capital return criteria and taking an 14 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review increasingly rigorous approach to investment in the BT Global Services is a supplier of leading-edge global narrowband network.
communications services, with a portfolio ranging from , desktop and network equipment and software, structural cost reduction, as we progressively migrate transport and connectivity, managed LAN, WAN and ontoasimpler, .
Theaim IP-VPN internet protocol virtual private network is that the new network will be reliable and hands-off, services, applications hosting, storage and security with self-diagnostic and self-healing capabilities, which services, through to business transformation and means that investment now should lead to signicantly change management for complex global requirements.
lower operational costs in the future.
Our award-winning, agship MPLS multi-protocol label switching product was launched in 2000.
With 500 efficiency points of presence around the globe, it can be accessed BT Wholesales cost base strategy includes improved from over 60 countries, and is recognised as a leading processes, better inventory control, and a product in the marketplace.
MPLS-based IP virtual relentless focus on productivity.
This resulted in private networks are the next generation of data significant savings.
networks for corporate customers, supporting voice, A major contribution to efficiency in the 2003 data and video applications.
These networks offer more financial year was a reduction in the pay bill for BT exibility and greater service performance.
During the Wholesale, as over 2,000 employees left the business 2003 financial year, quarter-on-quarter order growth on leaver terms.
for MPLS services averaged around 50%.
Savings have also been achieved as a result of improved automation and the adoption of new Solutions and value-added services technology, for example the development of self-install BT Global Services larger and more complex customer processes for our ADSL broadband product.
contracts are delivered through or managed by By concentrating on the efficient use of existing BT Global Solutions and Syntegra.
equipment, the requirement for capital expenditure has BT Global Solutions portfolio covers a number also been controlled.
Tightening spare plant margins of key ICT-related areas, including: IP infrastructure, on ISDN line cards, and more efficient deployment of CRM, applications and hosting, and outsourcing.
transmission equipment, for example, have resulted BT Global Solutions has over 5,000 employees in reduced costs, while maintaining standards for and delivers services for customers in 136 countries.
Its sales order value was 3.6 billion in the 2003 financial year, up 33% on 2002.
BT Global Services Syntegra, BTs experts in business transformation Years ended, or as at, and change management, employs around 5,000 31 March 2003 2002 2001 people worldwide, with particular strengths in financial Group turnover 5,251m 4,472m 3,468m services and government.
Syntegra is a key player in No.
of employees 000 17.2 16.7 18.8 the global trading systems market.
In the 2003 financial year, Syntegra signed UK Government business worth more than 500 million.
BT Global Services formerly BT Ignite and re-named in April 2003 is BTs managed services and solutions Customer wins provider, serving multi-site organisations worldwide.
Its In addition to contracts signed in conjunction with core target market is the top 10,000 global multi-site BT Retail and described on page 12, BT Global Services organisations with European operations.
Building on entered into a number of other significant customer the existing relationships BT has with large multi-site contracts in 2003.
Examples include: & organisations in the UK and internationally, BT Global In November 2002, working closely with BT Retail, we signed a seven-year contract worth arounde1 billion Services provides global reach and a complete range with Unilever, to manage and develop the companys of ICT solutions and services.
This is one of the largest outsourcing contracts in UK corporate Meeting customers needs history and the majority of revenues will come from We have a highly experienced and skilled workforce, serving our customers around the world.
Almost 50% operations outside the UK.
BT Global Services will of BT Global Services people are employed outside supply Unilever with a range of voice, data and mobile the UK, ensuring a local understanding and approach.
services, as well as developing new technologies on We deliver global account and service management its behalf.
& to our major corporate customers around the world.
In January 2003, we were awarded the contract BTs extensive global communications network to restructure the communications platform of the and strong strategic partnerships enable us to serve Bavarian state in Germany.
The seven-year contract is customers in all key commercial centres of Europe, the largest government contract BT has signed outside North America and Asia Pacic.
In Europe, this network the UK and involves the fundamental restructuring and links more than 250 towns and cities across 16 harmonisation of the Bavarian states entire countries back into our ubiquitous UK network, communications platform.
& and beyond into the Americas and Asia Pacic.
In January 2003, we won a four-year contract with the Ministry of Public Administration in Spain, worth BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 15 Business review over e20 million, to provide xed-voice, data and service, help customers maximise the use of internet services.
The ministry, which has more than their infrastructure.
400 sites throughout Spain, provides administrative support to government at the central, regional and Other businesses local levels.
As at 31 March 2003, BT held stakes in a number & In April 2003, we signed a three-year contract with of other businesses, including: & high street bank HBOS plc to manage its voice and stakes in four satellite entities Eutelsat, Inmarsat, data services.
& & Syntegra signed deals worth in excess of a 16.6% stake in L G Telecom, a mobile cellular 800 million, including a ten-year strategic partnership telephone operator in the Republic of Korea.
& with Essex County Council one of the biggest an 11.9% stake in StarHub, the enlarged xed and partnerships of its kind ever established by a mobile communications operator and pay-TV operator county council.
in Singapore, formed by the merger in June 2002 between StarHub and Singapore Cable Vision BTs Business realignment stake was previously 18% in StarHub alone.
& On 1 April 2002, the management of BTs contracts a 23% stake in Albacom, a xed communications with former Concert customers was transferred to operator in Italy.
BT Global Services and BT Retail.
During 2003, the Concert MPLS virtual private Research and development and IT support network platform, with its global presence in Europe, BT Exact is BTs centre of excellence in IT and USA and Asia, was integrated with the BT Global networking technologies, providing the specialist Services European platform, to enhance reach and technical skills that BT needs to extend the reach of our coverage, on schedule and within budget.
broadband services, operate our networks efficiently BT Global Services also achieved greater and deliver world-class customer service.
integration of its European businesses through BT Exact also works with BT Retail, BT Wholesale continued product harmonisation, network and and BT Global Services to address the more complex customer service centre consolidation and needs of our customers, extend our portfolio of people realignment.
products and services and ensure that our customers gain full advantage from the opportunities created by Global reach new technologies.
In Europe, BT Global Services owns operations in: Specialist technical services are also offered directly Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Netherlands, to telecommunications equipment manufacturers and Spain, the Nordics and Central and Eastern Europe.
suppliers of the software applications used in the core We deliver services to customers in Italy through our of the worlds public communication networks.
For joint venture Albacom and I.
Net our applications example, BT Exact works with companies such as hosting company.
In the Americas and Asia Pacic, Alcatel, Juniper Networks, Lucent Technologies and we deliver service to our customers through a Marconi to provide independent assessments of their combination of direct sales and services operations products performance and suitability for use in public and strategic partners.
BT Global Services network-based services Frame All these aspects of BT Exacts business are based Relay, ATM, IP-VPN extend to and across North and on expertise and insight created through our research South America, and the Asia Pacic region.
This means programmes, which focus on the next-generation that BT Global Services products are delivered internet, advanced data services, information and seamlessly within and from Europe to our own locations network security, software systems to support the in the Americas, and delivered locally through management and integrity of networks worldwide, interconnect and supply agreements with regional and the future impact of advanced communications carriers.
In the Asia Pacic region, we deliver services on lifestyles, education and healthcare.
locally to customers via a network of partners in the key The work undertaken by BT Exact is part of an commercial centres of Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore investment of 380 million in research and and Australia, and provide reach across the region development that BT made in the 2003 financial year.
This compares with 362 million and 364 million Global customer service is provided via service invested in the 2002 and 2001 financial and network management centres around the world, years, respectively.
24 hours a day, seven days a week.
As part of BT The intellectual property created from this work Global Services programme to deliver a standard is valuable and BT Exact is responsible for the operating environment across our operations, exploitation, management and defence of the patents all network operations are in the process of being that result from our research and development work, consolidated into a single network control centre in and has a policy of commercial exploitation of our Brussels.
This centre will manage BTs networks across technology through patent licensing including a 16 European countries, and through functions such as contract with ipValue to secure revenues from US shared incident management and fault resolution, and Canadian companies, and the incubation of performance monitoring, and seamless customer new technology companies.
16 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review In February 2003, BT Exact announced a partnership Health and safety with Coller Capital and New Venture Partners NVP to We have undertaken a comprehensive review of our create an independent corporate venturing partnership health and safety strategy and are committed to NVP Brightstar in which BT has a minority stake.
eradicating avoidable work-related illness and injury.
NVP Brightstar, which began operations in April 2003, We have specically targeted those business activities has the exclusive rights to create new, start-up that carry the greatest risks and we are enhancing the businesses with BT Exact, using our extensive and information, instruction and training provided for our developing intellectual property portfolio.
NVP people to help improve performance.
Good progress Brightstar purchased the majority of the existing is being made against the stringent targets we set portfolio of technology ventures developed by ourselves in 2001, with a 21% reduction in workplace BT Exacts corporate incubator, Brightstar.
injuries and a 23% fall in cases of occupational ill health over two years.
Our people Number of employees in the group A stake in the company 2003 2002 2001 We encourage our employees to acquire shares in As at 31 March 000 000 000 BT Group to enable them to share in our success, UK 96.3 100.1 106.4 and offer a range of tax-beneficial employee share Non-UK 8.4 8.5 10.4 plans to help them make such acquisitions.
For the 2003 financial year, 36 million was Total continuing activities 104.7 108.6 116.8 allocated to provide free shares to UK employees under Total discontinued activities 20.2 the BT Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP.
Under Total employees 104.7 108.6 137.0 the terms of the scheme, the amount of profit set aside to buy free shares is linked to corporate performance At 31 March 2003, BT employed 104,700 people measures determined by the Board.
These shares are throughout the world, with 96,300 in the UK.
held in trust for a minimum of three years, and for five During the 2003 financial year, as part of the years in order to obtain the beneficial tax treatment continuing programme of reshaping the group, 4,300 employees outside the UK receive a cash payment people left BT under our voluntary paid leaver equivalent to the value of the shares.
The partnership shares section of the ESIP gives Well managed, motivated people are fundamental employees an opportunity to purchase shares in the to our success.
Our reputation as a progressive and company through monthly deductions from their innovative employer not only helps us recruit and retain pre-tax salaries.
an excellent workforce, it also enhances our ability to In addition, employees have the opportunity to buy serve our customers and generate revenues.
shares at a discount under the BT Group Employee Sharesave schemes.
Share options are normally Training and development exercisable on completion of a threeor five-year saveDuring the year we spent around 70 million excluding as-you-earn contract.
staff and other direct costs on the training and development of our employees.
We provide a range Pensions of training opportunities for employees, including Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension customer service and technical training, management Scheme or the BT Retirement Plan, both of which are development and professional training, as appropriate.
The BT Pension We aim to deliver this as cost-effectively as possible by Scheme was closed to new members on 31 March using the capabilities of broadband and progressively 2001.
The majority of employees who joined the increasing the emphasis on e-learning and company after that date are eligible to join the self-teach opportunities.
Because a passion for our customers is fundamental to the way we do business, a number of Listening to our people training and development initiatives have focused on We run an annual employee attitude survey, and aspects of customer satisfaction.
One example of this encourage managers and their teams to put in place is the My Customer programme, targeted at 50,000 action plans to address the issues that it highlights.
people in BT Retail, to reinforce their engagement skills The most recent phase of the survey was conducted with customers.
at the end of 2002 and showed extremely high In January 2003, BT was accredited as an Investor levels of support for and commitment to the in People, for the fourth time.
Communications Work life balance We maintain and develop the awareness of our We want our people to give of their best for customers employees in relation to financial and economic factors and BT, and we provide the scope, within operational that affect the performance of the company in a requirements, for them to optimise their work life number of ways.
Employees are kept informed through balance.
At 31 March 2003, we had more than 6,000 a monthly internal newspaper and regular e-mail people working part time, almost 600 job sharers bulletins, as well as having access to the intranet.
and around 6,600 people working from home.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 17 Business review Other options include alternative attendance patterns, With limited exceptions, a licence under the maternity, paternity, adoptive and parental leave, Telecommunications Act is required to run a career breaks and an increasingly exible approach to telecommunication system in the UK.
The Secretary assist individuals to prepare for their retirement age.
of State is responsible for issuing licences after consulting the Director General.
The regulatory regime Industrial relations will change during 2003 and a new regulator, Ofcom, An estimated 75% of our UK employees belong to one will take over see sections The BT Licence, New of two main trade unions recognised by the company.
European Union Directives and Communications Bill We have a good record of industrial relations and and Ofcom for further information.
constructive, occasionally robust relationships, based on partnership and mutual respect, with both unions The BT Licence in the UK and works councils elsewhere across Europe.
BT currently operates in the UK under a number of licences, the most important of which is our licence Equal opportunities to operate our xed-line public telecommunications We are an equal opportunities employer and are network the Licence.
Subject to the committed to developing a working culture that implementation of the new European Union Directives enables all employees to make their own distinctive see below, the Licence remains in force indefinitely, contribution.
We are an active member of many equal but the Secretary of State may revoke the Licence on opportunity and diversity organisations, and during ten years notice.
The Licence can also be revoked at the year were awarded the platinum standard by any time on various grounds, including non-compliance Opportunity Now for our work on gender equality and with an enforcement order from the Director General.
the gold standard by Race for Opportunity RfO for In September 1999, the Licence was modied to meet our work on race equality.
the harmonisation requirements of the European Union We were also recognised by the Employers Forum Licensing Directive.
on Disability for our leadership in the employment of The Licence contains terms and conditions people with disabilities.
designed principally to ensure the widespread provision Our Chief Executive, Ben Verwaayen, is chairman of telecommunication services in the UK, to protect of the National Employment Panels Steering Group on the interests of consumers and to encourage the Lone Parents, which aims to create more opportunities development of effective competition in for lone parents to work.
telecommunication services and network provision within the UK.
Regulation, competition and prices Under the Licence, we have to full reasonable The commercial environment in the UK and in the requests for voice telephony, low-speed data and fax countries in which BT operates or wishes to operate transmission services, and provide public call boxes is increasingly competitive and dynamic.
However, in accordance with published guidelines, throughout we remain subject to extensive regulation, particularly nearly all the UK, including rural areas these being the in the UK, which can materially affect the way in which principal elements of the Universal Service Obligation.
we carry out our business.
We also use inputs from Under the Licence, we must allow other licensed other regulated operators, largely outside the UK, operators to interconnect with our telecommunications and the availability and price of these inputs may systems on cost-oriented, transparent and nonchange from time to time, impacting on our business.
We must comply with a variety of fair trading Regulation in the UK obligations, such as: & The regulatory structure for UK telecommunications a prohibition on showing undue discrimination is set out principally in the Telecommunications Act between customers or unfairly favouring any part of 1984, which gives regulatory authority to the Secretary our own business as against competitors in relation of State for Trade and Industry and the Director to matters such as the price, terms and conditions General of Telecommunications who heads the Ofce or quality of our main services: and of Telecommunications Oftel.
The Secretary of State & a prohibition on the unfair cross-subsidy of certain and the Director General are each required to exercise of our activities.
their functions under the Act in the way which they We must publish audited financial statements for consider is best calculated to ensure, as far as the regulated businesses and activities, in order reasonably practical, that all reasonable demand for to support the linkage of costs with interconnect prices telecommunication services, including certain and with a view to providing demonstrable evidence community services, is met, and to secure the ability that we are neither behaving in a discriminatory fashion of licensed telecommunications operators to finance nor unfairly subsidising our activities.
If it appears to the provision of the services which they are licensed the Director General that an unfair cross-subsidy exists to provide.
In addition, they are required, among between specified parts of our own business, we must other things, to promote the interests of consumers, take such steps as the Director General may direct to purchasers and other users in the prices, variety and remedy the situation.
The regulatory businesses for quality of telecommunication services and equipment, which separated accounts are currently produced are and to promote and maintain efficiency and effective retail narrowband access, apparatus supply, network, competition among UK telecommunications operators.
retail systems, mobile, supplemental services and 18 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review residual services.
The Licence also contains provisions grounds must be the minimum required to address enabling the Director General to monitor our activities, identied competition problems.
The new framework including requirements for BT to supply him with requires the availability of full rights of appeal, information requested.
including appeal on the merits, against regulatory The Licence contains price control formulae, the decisions to a body with appropriate expertise.
The overall effect of which requires us to reduce, or restricts new Directives also incorporate mechanisms designed the extent to which we can increase, the prices of many to ensure consistency of regulation across the of our telephony services to the bulk of the residential European Union.
market and also the prices for our interconnection Oftel is currently consulting on the proposed services, wholesale line rental services and number general conditions and Universal Service designations portability services.
In addition, the Licence contains and obligations.
Both these aspects of the new certain specic restrictions on the terms on which we framework need to be in place when all existing can trade.
In particular, we are required to publish and licences are due to cease to apply on 25 July 2003, adhere to standard prices and other terms for providing the implementation date for the new Directives.
Oftel certain services and, in general, to apply uniformly is also consulting on market analyses required to a published scale of charges for installing residential identify whether significant market power exists in  tobeservedbyasingle line.
However, as existing significant As a result of our international interests, a Licence market power obligations can be carried forward until condition prohibits us from doing anything, by act or the analyses are completed, this aspect of the omission, that would detract materially from our ability framework does not have to be in place by 25 July.
to meet our Licence obligations to provide UK significant market power obligations under the new telecommunication services and to do so to any framework may not, therefore, be implemented until specified standards.
BTs directors are required to later in 2003 and Oftel has indicated that because the submit an annual compliance certicate to the process cannot be completed before 25 July, certain Director General.
existing licence conditions relating to market areas The Director General may make modications subject to the analyses will need to be carried over until to a licence if the licensee does not object or the at least the end of August.
BT can, in any event, expect modication is deregulatory.
Alternatively, proposed to continue to be regulated in the majority of the changes to the Licence may be referred by the Director markets in which it is currently regulated.
General to the Competition Commission.
In either The new general conditions and Universal Service case, the Telecommunications Act requires public Obligations are not expected to have a major impact consultation before a licence can be modied.
Licences on BT, although some beneficial rationalisation of may also be modied in order to implement European these aspects of the framework is anticipated to result.
Union directives into UK law.
The introduction of the new denition of significant market power and the requirement for market analyses New European Union Directives should lead to the eventual withdrawal of competitionThe provision of telecommunications networks and related regulation, relying instead on competition law services throughout the European Union was liberalised in specified market sectors which are competitive or through the implementation of a number of Directives which become competitive in the future.
In its current which came into force in January 1998.
Following a market analysis consultation documents, Oftel is review initiated by the European Commission in 1999, proposing the removal or relaxation of such regulation a new package of Directives for the regulation of in a number of markets.
Similar regulatory reviews are electronic communications continuing the EUs policies underway in all EU member states which will have an of liberalisation and harmonisation was adopted by impact on the level of regulation BT, and its suppliers, the EU in April 2002.
These Directives must be are subject to in those countries.
implemented in all Member States by 25 July 2003.
The Communications Data Protection Directive, The new framework aims to be technologically neutral.
which is not part of the main Electronic Communication Individual licences will be replaced by a general Directives, was adopted in June 2002 and must come authorisation applying automatically to all providers into force in Member States by 30 October 2003. of electronic communications networks and services.
This Directive may have cost implications for industry.
Member States will no longer be permitted to require undertakings to obtain licences before operating in the Communications Bill and Ofcom sector, though providers of electronic communications The UK Government has completed a review of networks and services may be required to comply with .
Anew a limited range of general conditions.
Additional regulatory body has been established, called the Ofce obligations, legally separate from the general of Communications Ofcom, to amalgamate the roles conditions, will be imposed on individual providers of the five existing regulatory agencies: the Director designated by their National Regulatory Authority General of Telecommunications: the Independent as having Universal Service Obligations or significant Television Commission: the Broadcasting Standards market power in specified market sectors.
The Commission: the Radio Authority and the significant market power trigger will be aligned with Radiocommunications Agency.
Ofcom is headed by the competition law concept of dominance, and any a chairman Lord Currie and chief executive Stephen obligations imposed on significant market power BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 19 Business review Carter and supported by executive and non-executive Although it is some years since the board members.
Telecommunications Act abolished the monopoly The reforms are in two parts.
The first comprises of the former statutory corporation, British the Ofce of Communications Act passed in March Telecommunications, in the running of 2002, which enables the board, ofce and budgets of telecommunication systems, obligations placed on BT, Ofcom to be established, but does not enable Ofcom including pricing regulation and the requirement to to exercise any regulatory functions.
The second provide universal service discussed below are comprises a Communications Bill.
The draft Bill was generally more onerous than for other licensees.
published in May 2002 and the final Bill is expected to be passed by Parliament by 17 July 2003.
It will confer Competition Act regulatory functions on Ofcom, which will be able to In addition to telecommunications industry regulation, take up those functions when the Bill is brought into BT is subject to general competition law.
However, Ofcom is not expected to take up its By virtue of provisions in the Competition Act regulatory functions until later in the year and the Bill 1998, UK competition law is in line with European provides for a transitional period between the Bill Community law in prohibiting anti-competitive coming into force and the date when Ofcom takes up agreements and concerted practices and the abuse its formal powers.
In this period, the existing regulators of a dominant market position.
In the case of will carry out Ofcoms functions relating to networks telecommunications, the Director General of and services, and spectrum.
Telecommunications has concurrent investigatory and The main changes for providers of electronic enforcement powers with the Ofce of Fair Trading.
communications networks and services will be the They also have significant investigative powers.
Breach possibility of fines being imposed for breach of of the relevant prohibitions could lead to fines of up to regulatory obligations, appeals on the merits against 10% of relevant turnover in the UK for each year of regulatory decisions and the creation of a new infringement up to a maximum of three years and or regulatory regime which will, among other things, result in claims for damages in the civil courts.
There implement the requirements of the new EU Directives are also powers to order a company to cease an for general authorisations, instead of individual infringing activity.
There is an independent mechanism licences, and basing regulation of dominant players for appeals to the Competition Appeals Tribunal on analyses of relevant markets.
Statutory instruments against decisions under the Competition Act.
have been made to enable preliminary work to be Oftel is continuing to investigate the terms and undertaken to implement the Directives, and, in the conditions of BTs telephone rental business under event that the Bill is not passed before 25 July 2003, the Competition Act.
Also, following the decision of the deadline for implementation, the Government will the Competition Appeals Tribunal in the Freeserve case ensure implementation by means of further statutory in April 2003, Oftel has undertaken to re-issue a instruments which will, for a limited period, duplicate decision on BT Openworlds broadband activities.
Enterprise Act Competition The Enterprise Act 2002, which received Royal Assent The competitive environment on 7 November 2002, aims to give more independence The UK telecommunications market is fully open to to the competition authorities, to reform insolvency entry and highly competitive.
As a result, the UK and bankruptcy laws and to tackle trading practices Government and Oftel have indicated their expectation that harm consumers.
that it will be appropriate to move away from  specic including licence-based regulation to greater tothose ofthe CompetitionAct 1998, which willremain reliance on the Competition Act as individual markets in force with some minor amendments but it also become sufciently competitive.
Furthermore, the new contains new provisions criminalising cartels and EU Directives see New European Union Directives allowing for the disqualification, in appropriate cases, prohibit the imposition of competition based, sectorof company directors where companies commit specic economic regulation in any market which is breaches of competition law.
found to be effectively competitive.
In January 2000, Oftel published a strategy Pricing regulation statement based on the principle that regulation should Fixed network go no further than the minimum necessary to protect We are subject to price controls on our xed network consumers.
The strategy is underpinned by a services in the UK at two levels: retail and network.
programme of competition reviews, which are intended Fixed network competitors are generally not subject to to ensure that the regulatory framework responds to direct price controls, although there are some controls changed competitive conditions: where it is found that on mobile network operators.
competition is delivering benets to consumers in the sectors reviewed, regulation will be reduced or Retail price controls withdrawn as appropriate.
These reviews will need to We are subject to two sets of UK retail price controls, be incorporated into the market reviews mandated by one on certain public-switched telephony call charges the new EU Directives, which will come into force by and exchange line rentals, and one on certain private 25 July 2003 see New European Union Directives.
Each price control is based on a formula 20 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review calculated by reference to the UK Retail Prices Index the previous separate control RPI minus 7% on BT RPI and a factor, X. for calls to Vodafone and O UK.
2 & For services covered by the controls, the weighted once Oftel is satisfied that the new wholesale line average of base prices cannot increase in each year rental product is fully implemented and starting to have beginning 1 August by more than the annual change in an impact in the retail market, the retail price control RPI minus X.
The current retail price control for publicwill be further revised to allow prices to increase at the switched telephony, applying from August 2002 to July rate of ination.
& 2006 is RPI minus RPI i. e. the value of X is RPI and there are some minor changes to the workings of prices cannot increase.
It is measured on services used the Light User Scheme designed specically for people by the lowest 80% of our residential customers making fewer calls, including provisions to extend the classied by bill size.
From August 2002 the services number of customers potentially qualifying if the covered by the control were extended to include BTs standard exchange line rental rises signicantly.
share of the revenue for calls to all four mobile networks, replacing the previous separate control on Network charge control BT for calls to Vodafone and O.
The price control We operate under interconnection agreements with 2 formula and our performance against the formula are most other licensed operators.
A new network charge set out in the table below.
control period began on 1 October 2001 and will last Under the new controls, we have also given an for four years from that date.
It requires us to set assurance that increases in line rental for business reasonable charges based on long-run incremental customers will be no more than the annual change in costs for our standard interconnection services.
Under the price controls for private circuits that Depending on the degree of competition for these applied from August 1997 to July 2001, prices for services, charges are cap controlled each year by RPI domestic analogue and low-speed digital private minus X where X ranges from 7.5% to 13% for circuits could not increase by more than the change services Oftel considers unlikely to become competitive in the RPI in any year.
The application of the analogue in the near future: safeguard cap controlled i. e. no price cap has been extended until July 2005 and the increases above RPI during any relevant year of the low-speed digital private circuits cap was removed in overall control period for services likely to become July 2001. competitive: and those services considered fully competitive are not subject to direct charge controls.
Review of retail price controls The network charge controls that ended on In July 2002, BT accepted Oftels proposals for 30 September 2001 capped charges for services changes to its licence to introduce new retail price unlikely to become competitive in the near future at controls of RPI minus RPI i. e. no price increase from RPI minus 8%.
On 12 July 2002, a new condition was 1 August 2002 until 31 July 2006.
Under the changes: included in the Licence.
The effect was to set charges & BT is required to provide a cost-based wholesale for, and bring under regulatory control, BTs xed line rental product to other service providers at a portability services.
Number portability allows regulated price and in a way that does not discriminate customers to change the company providing their between BTs retail business and service providers.
telephony services without changing their telephone This product Wholesale Access has been available number.
Fourteen non-conveyance Portability Standard from BT since 1 September 2002.
Oftel has since Services were identied.
The charge control runs from issued a further consultation regarding enhancements 1 August 2002 until 31 July 2006.
The charges are to this product and BT, Oftel and industry are controlled by a RPI minus X formula, with X set at 5%.
BT must publish a notication to the Director General & for those services covered by the previous control, and other licensed operators if it intends to amend BTs prices to the lowest spending 80% of its existing charges or to offer new services.
customers would be pegged at their current level and not allowed to rise with ination, using an RPI minus Wholesale Access Charge Control RPI price control.
The services covered by the control The charges for the Wholesale Access services agreed have been extended to include BTs share of the by BT in July 2002 are subject to price control.
The revenue for calls to all four mobile networks, replacing charges for the line rental residential and business Price control formula RPI-X Years commencing 1 August 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 a % RPI movement for the relevant period 2.94 3.75 1.35 3.32 1.93 2.33 b Xin price control formula 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 2.33 cd % required reduction in base prices 1.56 0.73 3.15 1.09 2.45 ef % increase reduction in base prices overall 1.56 0.73 3.24 1.20 2.50 0.14 a Annual increase in RPI to previous June b From 1 August 1997, the RPI formula covers the main switched telephone services provided to the lowest 80% of BTs residential customers by bill size c After permitted carry forward of any unused allowance or shortfall from previous years d From 1 August 2002, the RPI formula covers the change in average prices including residential discount packages e Base and package price changes implemented up to 31 January 2003 f Regulation allows any unused allowance or excess reduction remaining at the end of the price control year 31 July to be carried forward BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 21 Business review products, line transfer and new line installations have BT no longer has a regulatory obligation to supply been determined and are subject to a price control voice inbound services e. g. 0800, 0845, 0870, 09XX, of RPI minus 2% effective from 1 September 2002 to notify and publish prices, or adhere to them.
The control applies to the aggregate We can therefore choose to offer different prices of all charges rental, transfer and installation as well and service levels to different customers.
BT must, as to line transfers separately.
BT is also under an of course, still comply with competition law.
The obligation to notify the Director General and service result of deregulation has been that prices have been providers if it intends to amend existing charges: reduced in this market.
the notication is 90 days for determined charges and 28 days for all others.
Local loop unbundling The Licence requires the provision of unbundled local Non-UK regulation loops to other operators to enable them to provide BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the telecommunications services, including broadband countries in which it operates or wishes to operate.
ADSL services, to end customers.
Local loop The obligations placed on BT and its suppliers continue unbundling, line sharing and sub-loop unbundling to be relevant to its business models and have cost are also required by an EU Regulation.
Local loop implications for its end user services.
These rules are unbundling services have been phased in over the generally applied by national regulatory authorities past few years.
In March 2003, BT launched a line operating under a governmental mandate.
of decisions of these bodies can have a material impact on our business models from time to time.
Carrier pre-selection Carrier pre-selection CPS, required by a condition European Union in the Licence, allows customers to opt for certain See New European Union Directives.
classes of call to be carried by an alternative operator, selected in advance, without having to dial additional Rest of the world access codes.
The vast majority of the markets in which BT operates around the world are regulated, and in the majority of Leased lines these it has to obtain licences or other authorisations Oftel published a Direction in respect of Partial Private and comply with the conditions of these.
The degree Circuits PPCs in December 2002.
PPCs are a to which these markets are liberalised varies widely: wholesale variant of certain private circuits at costwhile many are fully open to competition, others place based prices, which interconnecting operators can use restrictions on market entrants, such as the extent to form local tail-parts of end-to-end circuits offered to which foreign ownership is permitted, or on the to their retail customers.
The Direction resulted from services which may be provided.
The extent to which an investigation into the cost base of this relatively new the national incumbent operator is effectively regulated wholesale product group PPCs were initially launched also varies considerably.
BTs ability to compete fully in in August 2001.
The Direction resulted in reductions some countries is therefore constrained.
averaging 15% to 20% in PPC charges compared with the initial 2001 PPC charge levels, along with a range Other significant changes and issues of relatively minor amendments to the product Broadband regulation specications.
A proportion of the price reductions has There has been considerable dialogue with Oftel and been made on a retrospective basis, as the majority the Department of Trade and Industry over the past of private circuits leased by other operators had financial year regarding the introduction of broadband already switched to PPC prices and conditions following services and how best to deal with the issues arising initial launch.
Now that the Oftel investigation has from rapid roll-out.
Much of this activity has centred concluded, BT is looking forward to a period of around the creation of approaches designed to foster stability as the use of the new product portfolio increased demand, to reduce the costs of providing becomes established.
broadband facilities, and to encourage creative partnerships with others, both in the public and private Universal Service Obligation USO sectors, and to bring the benets of broadband to The Communications Bill will implement the Universal areas that might not be reached on a purely Service Directive, one element of the new European commercial basis.
In addition to the standard licence Union Directives package see New European Union and competition law obligations, BT ensures that the Directives.
Oftel consulted in March 2003 on particular obligations for wholesale service provider conditions to apply to BT.
Some additional obligations products are met.
These include the need to treat BTs are proposed, such as guidelines that refer to a retail businesses and service providers equally and the minimum data rate of 28.8 kbit s which will have provision of various interconnection points to BTs adverse cost implications for BT if implemented.
continues to take the view that the USO is not an unfair burden on BT.
Oftel is expected to carry out Deregulation of inbound services a formal review of the USO next year, looking at Inbound services were deregulated in July 2002 as the scope and funding of the USO, and is currently the market for these services is now fully competitive.
22 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Business review consulting on the controls applying to removal and re-siting of payphones.
Flat-rate internet interconnection FRIACO Initially launched in 2000, this group of products is the normal means of providing interconnecting operators with a service to support at-rate internet access packages via internet service providers to end users.
Most FRIACO use involves interconnection at local exchange level, and the period of rapid growth in demand, following the initial FRIACO launch, has now developed into a more stable environment.
The charges for both FRIACO services are subject to RPI minus X controls under the Network Charge Control regime and hence have been falling gradually.
Oftel is currently consulting on whether there should be a further reduction in the price of one element of the service with effect from December 2001.
Relationship with the UK Government The UK Government collectively is BTs largest customer, but the provision of services to any one department or agency of the UK Government does not comprise a material proportion of its revenues.
Except as described below, the commercial relationship between BT as a supplier and the UK Government as customer has been on a normal customer and supplier basis.
We can be required by law to do certain things and to provide certain services for the UK Government.
The Licence obliges BT and other licensees, after consultation with central and local government, to make, and if necessary implement, plans for the provision or restoration of services in emergencies.
In addition, the Secretary of State has statutory powers to require us to take certain actions in the interests of national security and international relations.
Legal proceedings The company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the group.
Proceedings have been initiated in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that auction process.
The first hearing has been scheduled for 11 July 2003, in Rome.
If the proceedings are successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The company has concluded that it is not appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such potential claim.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 23
