10 Business Review AEROSPACE SYSTEMS Turnover third party 2003 319.7m 2002 292.8m Operating profit 2003 66.2m 2002 53.7m Includes Cobham headquarters Excluding goodwill amortisation of 5.7m 2002 - 4.7m and integration costs of nil 2002 - 3.2m Review of operations Flight Refuelling Limited FRL and US sister company bomb release unit orders were received from the Korean Sargent Fletcher Inc SFI are complementary leaders in Air Force and for technology demonstration equipment in the design and manufacture of air refuelling AR and support of the Future Offensive Air Systems FOAS auxiliary mission equipment.
Both companies have together programme.
Deliveries of Brimstone missile launchers to met an accelerated United States Marine Corps requirement the Royal Air Force and multi-missile launchers for for C-130J AR capability by offering upgraded standard Swedens JAS 39 Gripen defence ghters also commenced equipment.
FRL has also continued the development of a in 2003. refuelling pod to meet United States Air Force Special SFI further reinforced its position as a world leader in this Operations Command AFSOC requirements.
Earlier eld of specialised equipment by securing a contract to commitments have been met with the delivery of refuelling supply pneumatic bomb ejection racks for the Lockheed pods for both German and Royal Canadian Air Force A310 Martin F-16 and Boeing Small Diameter Bomb tankers and to Sukhoi for integration with an AR capable programmes.
FR-HiTEMP achieved satisfactory trading gures despite the FRL being the AR equipment supplier to the AirTanker continued recession in civil aerospace.
Deliveries of fuel consortium, which is now the UK MoDs potential service system equipment to Airbus have, however, been robust and provider for the FSTA contract, expects to retain its position demand for spares and repairs for both civil and military as the premier AR provider for the foreseeable future.
The supply of replacement fuel pumps for Boeing 747 aircraft is now underway to three SFI secured record sales and orders throughout the year.
major airlines: more operators are expected to place orders These orders amounted to US$103m and were largely shortly.
influenced by refuelling pod orders for the C-130J and external fuel tank orders for the F-22 and Japanese Air Self Cobham Fluid Systems, based at Blandford, responded to a Defence Force F-2 programmes.
UK MoD urgent operational requirement by supplying FRL and SFI are also heavily engaged in the production and tactical fuel handling equipment to support the 2003 supply of weapon carriage and release systems.
With many new orders, 2003 was a successful year for the restructured Aerospace Systems group.
Revenue growth was 9.2% and underlying operating profit has risen by 23.3%.
SARGENT FLETCHER achieved record sales and developed key business in auxiliary mission equipment for the US Small Diameter Bomb programme.
CARLETON has become the market leader in Above: Tornado GR4 with Brimstone missiles carried on Flight Refuelling missile launchers.
Centre: F-15E with Boeing Small Diameter Bomb mounted on a Sargent Fletcher pneumatic weapons carriage system.
Below: Flight Refuelling Common Rail Launcher fitted to Sea Harrier FA2.
12 Business Review continued AEROSPACE SYSTEMS CONTINUED Left: Conax automatic life vest ination device.
Far right: FR-HiTEMP Boeing 747 fuel boost pump and canister.
Below right: Conax water activated parachute release units.
Cobhams defence pyrotechnic business is now called Stanley Aviation nished the year with a record order Cobham Countermeasures.
Within this area, Wallop intake.
Long term positions were secured with Boeing on the Defence Systems is presently embarked on a three-year C-17 programme for the supply of couplings and tubing contract worth 23m to supply infra-red IR products and with the Engine Alliance Pratt & Whitney and countermeasures to an overseas customer.
This work runs General Electric for the Airbus A380s GP700 engine alongside the companys supply of similar products to the handling system.
Equipment scheduled for the Lockheed UK MoD.
The provision of a world-class manufacturing Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter will translate from the facility in Milan, Tennessee, has now allowed design to the manufacturing phase in 2004.
In late 2003, the FR Countermeasures to commence manufacture of acquisition of Sierracin Harrison extended Stanleys range IR ares for a United States Navy order.
Conax Florida, which supplies electro-explosive devices and gas storage systems, had a record order intake.
Strong Conax Florida, which supplies demand from the US military has continued for water activated parachute release and life vest ination systems.
electro-explosive devices and gas storage The companys IR sector components already being supplied systems, had a record order intake.
Strong for the Javelin anti-armour missile are condently predicted demand from the US Military has continued to feature on other weapon programmes.
for water activated parachute release and Carleton Technologies has further enhanced its global life vest ination systems reputation as a prime supplier of high pressure actuation and deployment systems.
The production of kits for the Paveway II guided bomb now exceeds 1,200 per month.
Alongside this, manufacturing has also commenced on wing and n deployment actuators for the joint air to surface COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 13 standoff missile.
Development contracts for other weapon applications have also been received.
Carleton Life Support Technologies in Canada has consolidated its position as a leading supplier of re-breathing apparatus.
Major contracts have been received from both the United States Navy and Royal Navy.
In June 2003 Carleton acquired Drger Aerospace in Germany.
This company is now rmly established as the sole source provider of emergency oxygen systems for Boeings commercial aircraft.
After its purchase by Carleton in August, Northrop Grumman Life Support Division was renamed Carleton Life Support Systems Inc.
The company leads the eld in the supply of on board oxygen generation and on board inert gas generation systems.
14 Business Review continued AVIONICS Turnover third party 2003 316.1m 2002 251.5m Operating profit 2003 60.8m 2002 51.9m Excluding goodwill amortisation of 8.4m 2002 - 6.3m and integration costs of 0.8m 2002 - nil Review of operations Chelton Electrostatics completed the first phase of a Culham Electromagnetics and Lightning participated in programme to develop an anti-jam GPS antenna system and Eurofighter lightning trials and the completion of a also made the first deliveries of a GPS signal distribution programme with major European aerospace companies system for the Rafale and Mirage 2000. which investigated electromagnetic hazards in aircraft structures and systems.
Contracts were received from AgustaWestland and Eurocopter for helicopter mounted equipment which Omnipless received full Inmarsat approval for its high-gain included antennas for the Bowman radio Apache and wide electronically steerable satcom antenna.
The companys band direction nders Tiger.
significant orders were also rugged UHF Satcom-On-The-Move antenna has now been placed for airborne terrestrial trunked radio systems selected for the US forces joint tactical radio system JTRS.
TETRA for the UK Police, upgraded communications The acquisition of Orion Electronics opened the homeland equipment for Turkish military helicopters, Korean T-50 and security market for Chelton Avionics.
Orions precision KO-1 production items and an advanced lo-observable satellite tracking product base performed beyond financial communications antenna for the F-16.
expectations in 2003 and promises continued strength in European Antennas has expanded from the commercial 2004.
Micromill Electronics enjoyed a record level of antenna business area and a landmark initial contract was business in its UK and overseas homeland security markets.
signed with Inmarsat for regional broadband global area Joint product development with Orion Electronics will see network remote antennas.
In July, Thales Antennas was the launch of further innovative surveillance equipment.
acquired and renamed Racal Antennas.
The company is Chelton Defence Communications delivered, during its now supplying antennas for the UK Bowman project.
first full trading year, over 2000 AN VIC3 vehicle intercom Deliveries for this 11m contract will continue until mid systems.
This has equipped four brigades of the US Armys 2007.
Racal Antennas is also the prime supplier for a new Stryker light armoured vehicle.
3.5GHz UK broadband network with a contract value worth The Chelton Composites group acquired Atlas Composites several million pounds.
which provides expertise in tool manufacture and rapid US designation for vehicle interphone communications.
CHELTON has achieved a thirteenth record year of sales performance.
Revenue growth was 25.7% and underlying operating profit increased by 17.1%.
Worldwide demand for the groups antenna products has been complemented by further growth in its avionics, communication, navigation and audio businesses and the first sales of certied electronic ight instrument systems.
Above: Sea Tels model 9767 microwave satellite communication equipment.
Centre: Slingsby Aviation Firefly supplied to the RBAF.
Below: Both Kevlin and Sivers produce microwave rotary joints for air traffic control primary radar systems.
16 Business Review continued AVIONICS CONTINUED Left: Chelton Applied Composites missile launcher.
Right: Omnipless HGA 7000 ultra thin high gain speed data Aero H antenna.
Far right: ERAs Diamond range satellite link antenna deployed in Washington DC.
Below right: Chelton Defence Communications ROVIS ghting vehicle intercom system.
Cobham Composites supplied structures for Air Prcision increased its share of the high end slip-ring the ASTOR programme and manufacture of the SAMPSON market and created a US marketing presence.
The company radar array has continued.
Chelton Radomes continued also received production orders for landing and searchlights deliveries for Euroghter and a number of radomes for the and new GPS clocks.
At TEAM, the first prototype A380 EH101 for the Italian Navy.
Slingsby Aviation delivered the radio and audio management system was delivered and first propulsor duct for the Astute class submarine and was the company commenced deliveries of digital audio awarded a contract for the manufacture of fuselages for management units for all current Airbus and Pilatus PC9 Liberty aircraft while continuing production of kits for the aircraft.
Sivers expanded further into air traffic control Europa composite aircraft.
Chelton Applied Composites radar applications, principally in the Raytheon digital had a successful first year under Chelton ownership, winning airport surveillance radar programme.
contracts for shoulder launched missile canisters and also In the USA, Atlantic Microwave commenced production establishing a testing facility to support the JAS 39 Gripen deliveries of its next generation receive terminal NGRT, radome programme.
part of the US militarys global broadcast service.
Atlantic Positioning Systems, formed in 2003 from the assets Kevlin continues to be a major supplier purchased from the Xybion Corporation, provides high-end electro-optical positioning equipment that supports of microwave rotary couplers for both civil Atlantic Microwaves growing RF antenna and electroand military radar applications.
The air trafc optical business.
Continental Microwave completed control ground radar market provided integration of the Airtron product line and won new substantial new business.
surveillance and weather radar at plate antenna business.
Kevlin continues to be a major supplier of microwave rotary couplers for both civil and military radar applications.
The air trafc control ground radar market provided substantial new business which required the upgrading of multi-channel rotary joint slip-ring encoder systems.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 17 Nurad received new business including contracts for expendable decoy antennas, electronic warfare antennas and radomes, and antennas and radomes for unmanned aerial vehicles UAV.
The companys technical capabilities were increased by the completion of a compact range test facility for radar cross section and antenna measurements and a unique high power, high temperature, high altitude test facility.
Northern Airborne Technology maintained its growth In the search and rescue sector, Artex and ACR performed with the acquisition of dB Systems, a Seattle-based exceptionally well in their respective airborne and maritime manufacturer of digital intercommunications products.
The acquisition of Nauticast strengthened ACRs Chelton Flight Systems certified their electronic flight position for the pending US Coast Guard automatic instrument system EFIS, attaining supplemental type identication system shipboard mandate.
Seimac added a certication for more than 600 aircraft types and delivering maritime locator beacon product line via the acquisition of initial systems, on time, to the FAAs Capstone programme.
Novatech, whilst development of its spread spectrum radio Over 50 certied systems, beyond Capstone, were delivered and completion of a military personal locator beacon is in the fourth quarter of 2003.
Wulfsberg Electronics expected to enhance its performance in 2004.
The divisions strong performance was driven by activity in its acquisition of Sea Tel expanded Cheltons maritime market APCO-25 multiband radios, by continuing demands for presence into the high performance, stabilised antenna and the Series III product line and with manufacture of the data transmission arenas.
Chelton Flight Systems EFIS and autopilot products.
Development of a new FliteLine digital radio family promises a strong performance in 2004 2005.
In a weak general aviation marketplace, Comants successful range of ComDat multi-function antenna products resulted in record sales and profit levels being achieved.
Towards the end of the year Chelton acquired UK-based ERA Technology with over 300 highly skilled professional engineers and scientists.
Association of Public Safety Communications Ofcers.
18 Business Review continued FLIGHT OPERATIONS & SERVICES Turnover third party 2003 179.7m 2002 174.8m Operating profit 2003 21.9m 2002 19.3m Excluding goodwill amortisation of 1.8m 2002 - 1.7m Review of operations In the UK FR Aviations 24m Falcon 20 eet upgrade contract came as FPL celebrated its tenth anniversary, programme contracted by the UK MoD is progressing well during which time it has become the European leader in the with two aircraft fully converted and in operational service outsourced calibration of civil and military airports.
The programme calls for a further six aircraft to support of the UK MoD, FPL sent an aircraft to Basra, Iraq, be converted in 2004 with the remaining six in 2005. on three separate occasions during 2003 to install new navigation aids prior to the re-opening of the airport.
A company Falcon 20 aircraft is engaged in the operational evaluation of the Euroghter Typhoon Defensive Aids Sub The groups Australian subsidiaries produced a strong System DASS and will continue to support Typhoons entry trading performance with some notable achievements.
into service and ongoing development of DASS.
National Air Support NAS, which focuses on government and special mission aviation opportunities in Australia and FR Aviation Services FRAS, working with BAE SYSTEMS the Asia Pacic region, completed the installation of an under a partnering agreement, extended the scope and Inmarsat system into its eet of five Dash 8 aircraft.
In so duration of its existing Nimrod MR2 aircraft maintenance doing it became the worlds first civilian aerial surveillance contract at RAF Kinloss.
FRAS has been nominated as the operator to provide such a system, transmitting real time preferred maintenance provider for the Nimrod MRA4 when video, still images, radar, voice and data from patrolling it enters service.
Coastwatch aircraft via satellite direct to the Customs Tank Devils, the companys specialist fuel tank repair national surveillance centre.
It was one of the companys services business, has continued to expand successfully Coastwatch aircraft, operating a routine surveillance in the UK and mainland Europe and now actively supports exercise, which played a pivotal role in the recent successful 42 aircraft operators.
rescue of a British tourist on a remote Australian beach.
NAS also renewed a three-year contract with the developer of Flight Precision Limited FPL signed a five-year contract the laser aerial depth sounder system to operate a with the Manchester International Airports group, for Dash 8 aircraft in Australia and on worldwide deployments.
Manchester International and its associated airports, to ensure all the equipment needed to guide aircraft to and During the year National Jet Systems NJS, which focuses from runways is regularly checked and calibrated.
The on freight and passenger services, entered into a new Flight Operations & Services strong order book extends to 2012, revenue increased by 2.8% and underlying operating profit by 13.5%.
The group operates a eet of 135 xed and rotary wing aircraft in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacic and Australia.
New long-term contracts have been won including the supply and support of aerial targets for the UK MoD and, with Australian Air Express, Australias largest overnight freight service, extending existing Above: FB Heliservices provide rotary wing support to British Forces overseas.
Centre: FR Aviation Falcon 20 prepared for Eurofighter Typhoon Defensive Aids Sub-System trials.
Below: FR Aviation Services offer a complete fuel tank repair and maintenance service to 42 operators.
20 Business Review continued FLIGHT OPERATIONS & SERVICES CONTINUED TIMIKA TABUBIL CHRISTMAS PORT MORESBY ISLAND DARWIN COCOS ISLANDS GOVE MCARTHUR RIVER CAIRNS BROOME PT HEDLAND TANAMI TOWNSVILLE KARRATHA THE GRANITES TELFER BARROW ISLAND NEWMAN BARIMUNYA LEARMONTH WEST ANGELAS ALICE SPRINGS PARABURDOO BALLERA AYERS ROCK MT KEITH GOLDEN GROVE MURRIN MURRIN LEINSTER BRISBANE MOOMBA LEONORA COOLANGATTA KALGOORLIE SYDNEY PERTH ADELAIDE MELBOURNE RESOURCE INDUSTRY Left: Australian operations provided QANTASLINK AUSTRALIAN AIR EXPRESS LAUNCESTON by National Jet Systems and HOBART National Air Support.
five-year support contract with Minara Resources, market leader in the provision of overnight freight services.
Australias largest nickel mine, and secured a two-year The new service will see more than 59 million kilograms of contract with the giant Newcrest Telfer Gold Mine.
Both freight delivered annually to Australias major cities.
mines are located in Western Australia.
Building on its FR Aviations joint venture with Bristow Helicopters, FBS, has relationship with Australian Air Express in cargo operations, successfully completed its sixth year of a fifteen-year NJS won a seven-year extension to its existing BAe 146 support contract to the tri-service UK Defence Helicopter freighter contract.
In addition, NJS won a new A$100m Flying School at RAF Shawbury, RAF Valley, and the School contract to operate five Boeing 727 aircraft, acquired as part of Army Aviation at Middle Wallop, adding a further two of TransAustralian Air, consolidating its position as the Bell 412 Grifn helicopters in the year.
It continues to provide exceptional levels of aircraft availability with its eet of 38 AS 350 Squirrel and eleven Bell 412 Grifn aircraft, training more than 200 pilots a year.
2003 also saw further expansion following the successful FR Aviations joint venture with Bristow introduction to service of three Bell 212 helicopters Helicopters, FBS, continues to provide providing support to the British Army in Belize and four Bell exceptional levels of aircraft availability 412 helicopters for the British forces in Cyprus.
These with its eet of 38 AS 350 Squirrel and contracts run for three and five years respectively.
eleven Bell 412 Grifn aircraft, training AVdef, the French-based joint venture, had another more than 200 pilots a year successful year growing its order book with the addition of two three-year contracts with the French Navy and Direction Gnrale fide lAviation Civile.
The company will begin a new high speed target service in 2004 using its recently acquired A4 Skyhawk aircraft.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 21 Business Review continued TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Research and Development expenditure 2003 40.4m 2002 31.6m 2001 28.2m 2000 21.6m 1999 20.1m Part of Cobhams success has been from its long term Chelton has focused specically on satellite communications strategy of investment in innovation.
In 2003 Cobham systems, digital radio technology and cockpit avionics increased the level of development expenditure by some equipment.
Continued development of the electronic ight 28% to 40.4m.
This equates to 6.4% of annual revenue in instrument system EFIS at Chelton Flight Systems has the Aerospace Systems and Avionics product areas.
led to approval for use on helicopter platforms.
This Investment at this level is expected to continue.
investment was rewarded by winning NASAs prestigious Turning Goals into Reality award.
Cheltons consolidation In the Aerospace Systems group Sargent Fletchers as a major sub-system provider is evidenced by the ongoing advanced technology is currently embracing a noninvestment in interference cancellation technology and the pyrotechnic store ejection system and an autonomous introduction of a range of customised high power solid state hook-up system for use in air vehicle docking operations.
new control system, for use with Flight Refuellings 900 Series aerial refuelling pods, is now being implemented on The addition of ERA Technology to the Chelton group has the AFSOC KC-130H tanker aircraft.
Consistent with todays added substantial research and development capability glass cockpit designs, it allows multiple refuelling systems to across the Cobham group.
be controlled from a single multi-function display.
Additional benefit is gained by single point access for Part of Cobhams success has been from improved maintenance diagnostics.
The lessons learned its long term strategy of investment in during the development of the low-speed variable drag drogue VDD for the KC-130H air refuelling pods will innovation.
In 2003 Cobham increased the signicantly assist the design of a new high-speed VDD for level of development expenditure by some use on the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft.
In the case of the 28% to 40.4m KC-130H, the VDD facilitates refuelling of multi-receivers, i. e. helicopters, tilt-rotor and low-speed xed-wing aircraft, during the same mission.
22 Cobhams Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility As a multi-national organisation, Cobham plc recognises its The strategy also includes the development of key indicators corporate social responsibility CSR to carry out business in an and a supporting data collection infrastructure for the economically, environmentally and socially responsible way.
Over the past year a strategy has been developed that A CSR working group, which includes corporate, environmental, incorporates many elements of CSR which were already in health and safety and communication personnel has now been place.
This has resulted in a revised corporate framework that established.
provides a set of principles to guide behaviour and business operations for our employees at all levels.
It addresses business ethics, anti-fraud, equal opportunity, health and safety, environment and community involvement.
Our Performance at a Glance In 2003 a number of key performance indicators were Looking after the environment Under the groups environmental policy Cobham is identified which allowed CSR performance to be committed to meeting legislative requirements, to the measured and a supporting data collection system prevention of pollution and to the continuous improvement of environmental performance.
was introduced across the Cobham group.
In 2003: A high-level environmental impact analysis was conducted at the start of the year.
19 sites have developed an Environmental Management System EMS, six of which are certied to ISO 14001.
A further seven sites have plans to implement an EMS.
Energy consumption was approximately 776k gigajoules, equating to 0.93 gigajoules per 1,000 of turnover.
Greenhouse gas emissions from electricity use was 40,042 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent COe, 2 approximately 4 tonnes of COe per employee.
2 Left: ACR President Paul Frank and colleagues holding pallets 3 Water consumption was 201,839m, equating to around of silicone compound coated circuit boards.
ACR installed an 3 22m per employee.
automated system for coating circuit boards in 2003.
The coating replaced a high solvent compound coating system.
136,542 tonnes of waste was generated, 60% of which Right: The source of our quality is the skills of our workforce, was recycled.
typied by the assembly of a radar coolant pump shown here.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 23 Key goals in going forward It is recognised that implementing an effective CSR strategy is a long-term challenge and work will continue towards meeting the following goals in 2004: Renement of the data collection and reporting system.
Verication of CSR performance as part of the Cobham assurance process.
Expansion of key performance indicators and the setting of performance targets.
Completion of a revised organisation-wide corporate framework and the setting out of policies in the CSR area.
Using the Cobham internet website to communicate with stakeholders and facilitate CSR awareness and continual improvement within the group.
Looking after our workforce Working with the community Cobhams human resources policies seek to provide all The maintenance of good community links is clearly employees with a safe place to work, equality of opportunity fundamental to Cobhams long term viability and success.
Career and skills development In 2003 support for community issues and of people is the key to future growth and success, with events included: training an essential element of everyday business activity.
The support of CANTEEN, a charity for children with In 2003: cancer, by National Jet Systems in Australia.
This involved The average number of employees within the Cobham fundraising activities and providing a ight on a BAe 146 group was 8,990.
Greater than 50% of the groups employees have more The donation by Artex USA of time and money to a local than five years service.
trust that provides activities for children with special needs.
Worldwide, 77 injuries and other occurrences were recorded which were reportable under UK legislation.
The provision by Credowan UK of sports kit for a local Overall incidence rate, as dened by the UK Health and soccer team and sponsorship of a local school.
Safety Executive, reduced by 19% from 945 in 2002 to 769.
The support by Cobham of Young Enterprise in Dorset, UK, No penalties or fines were received for health and safety which is designed to bring business experience into matters.
Companies throughout the group continued to develop In addition, ERA Technology UK was awarded a contract by leadership programmes, including the Cobham Managing the UK Department for International Development for the development and trial of innovative hand-held mine detectors for Excellence programme.
for use in worldwide humanitarian landmine clearance Development of targeted training activity is being assisted operations.
by enhancing the groups appraisal and mentoring systems.
