business & financial review point in the market, its quality, reliability, design and packaging.
It is Business Review the mastery of this comprehensive requirement that has promoted The Alba Groups tried and tested business strategy for success is the Alba Group to its present strong position in all its chosen straightforward - organic development supplemented by targeted product sectors.
The strategy is matched by an efficient and comprehensive resource infrastructure that both supports our Group strategy is to develop and position Group companies and current operations and encourages expansion.
This winning divisions as key suppliers to the most important retailers in its strategy has allowed the Group over the year to maintain its fields, both in the UK and its overseas markets.
It does this by sustained growth in mass market Consumer Electronics, expand its offering a comprehensive, extended range of volume selling, massoperations in all of its geographical regions and to enter new, market products, coupled with the best quality of overall service.
Several key elements are fundamental to the fulfilment of this The past year has seen this recipe for success being pursued with strategy: - vigour.
Licences for Ministry of Sound Audio and Carl Lewis Fitness The acquisition and development of brands well known to have been acquired: new offices at Elstree opened and the fastboth the retail trade and the consumer.
build construction of a major new Group distribution facility at Cortonwood commenced.
These developments have broadened The development of partnership relationships with the Groups product offering to embrace new consumer audiences, customers and, at its core, an effective interface between our and taken the Group into new business areas where its teams and our customers personnel at all levels.
This commercial strengths can be further exploited.
At the same time, interface, coupled with a thorough understanding both of our full logistical support for this growth is ensured.
customers needs and the dynamics of their businesses, allows us to target the services supporting our products, ensuring Priority is given to the development of major brands.
The Alba these meet customer needs and promote the smooth running brand, Bush, Goodmans, Roadstar better known in Continental of our joint business relationship.
Europe, Hinari, Betacom, Power Devil, Dirt Devil, JCB, Cable & Wireless and NTL, the last four under licence, have all achieved The preservation of the independence and competitiveness of substantial mass market positions within their product areas.
The individual brands, their product development, identity and acquisition of Pulse Home Products Ltd in 2001 brought Breville, sales and marketing, combined with the centralisation of all Antony Worrall Thompson by Breville, Viva and Nicky Clarke other business and support activities into one Group unit.
With Ministry of Sound and Carl Lewis This successful recipe achieves operating efficiencies and the Fitness we, this year, added two further brands under licence, an lowest possible cost base, leading to the most competitive area of business in which the Group has developed a particular pricing.
The on-going development of a comprehensive and highly Investment in new technology is another important and constant efficient sourcing operation, with concentrated buying power, factor.
Albas knowledge and experience of the markets gained to administer supplies and ensure on time deliveries from over many years, combined with a policy of close observation of manufacturers in the Far East, Asia and Europe.
This is trends around the world, ensures that it is well placed to offer the achieved through active supplier quality assurance right products to its markets at the right time and at the right programmes and the placement of Group engineering and price.
This key business support function requires both a capacity quality control personnel in the key manufacturing areas to for careful forward planning and the flexibility to alter emphasis monitor production and quality levels.
and direction as business backdrops, preferences and retail climates Careful investment in the development of new products, change.
In addition to both industry and Government bodies, the embracing new technologies and designs, where volume Group works closely, and in partnership, with suppliers and appeal is confidently expected, combined with the timely retailers to anticipate and forecast consumer tastes and demands.
offering of these products to meet customers forward This investment strategy, which is particularly finely focused in the planning schedules for future selling seasons.
This flexible and rapidly changing area of consumer entertainment electronics and collaborative approach to product planning is complemented broadcasting mediums, ensures the Group is well placed to take by comprehensive, UK based, in-house Product Origination, advantage of popular demand but avoids exposure when changes Research & Design Centres.
Together with specialist external occur that are beyond Albas control.
One example is DVD, which advisers, these Centres further support customer needs with has made it into the record books as being the fastest growing paid innovative products and packaging designs aimed at for consumer entertainment product in history.
DVDs are maximising popular appeal and sales impact.
supplied in high quantities under a number of brands.
We are also taking full advantage of the renewed interest in Digital TV, with the The maintenance of efficient, inward quality control and after commencement of Free-to-View, whilst being cognisant of the sales service teams to provide easy, trouble-free sales for the developments in pay terrestrial digital broadcasting.
retail trade and to retain the brand allegiance of consumers.
Albas success in securing and adapting new technologies, and The development of overall Group logistics, linked by the bringing products incorporating these to the mass market, has latest electronic communications, closely matched to business been possible only with the detailed co-ordination of wide-ranging growth and changes in the markets to ensure the most cost resources.
Currently the Group markets more than 2,600 effective and efficient support to our customers at all levels.
products with sales in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, No other company in our field offers such a wide spread of the Middle East and to many other parts of the world.
The task of products at keenly affordable prices under such well-known maintaining strong saleability across the board in all its markets and brands.
Within the United Kingdom our strategy enables us to where differences in technical standards and national tastes exist, count nearly all major retailers in our field as customers.
requires close attention to the detail of each product, its price 5 business & financial review We have leading market shares in such important areas as Colour UK Divisions Televisions, DVD, VCR, Audio Systems, Personal Stereos, In-Car Entertainment, Small Domestic Appliances, Personal Care, handAlba Radio Ltd Acting as the bedrock of the Group, Alba Radio held Vacuum Cleaners, Power Tools and Power Garden Tools.
is the UK market leader for lead-in, high volume Audio Systems, This successful UK blueprint is repeated in Continental Europe and Portable Stereo, TV, DVD and VCR.
further afield through Roadstar Management SA with its comprehensive management structure and important sales Building on its established position, over the past year Alba Radio connections.
The Roadstar brand is well known in its main Ltd has achieved excellent growth in the hugely popular DVD markets, especially Italy, Switzerland where its head office is sector with budget priced but well-featured models.
With wide based, and South Eastern Europe.
In these markets the brand distribution, Alba DVDs have been very well received by the recognition is comparable to Bush and Goodmans in the UK.
market and have generated enthusiastic media reviews, often Under the control of Roadstar, resourcing, warehousing, scoring above more expensive models.
Alba DVDs have also been accounting, servicing and distribution throughout Europe are combined with selections of popular DVD disks creating an centralised.
This infrastructure has enabled a strong, dynamic sales irresistible offer that has appeared in the widest spread of retailers.
drive in Continental Europe and other markets for Roadstar These products have joined the higher specification CD Audio products and products under other Group brands including JCB.
Systems in its range to form an unrivalled portfolio of entertainment products.
Group History Alba Radios success has been built on mainstream electronic Since the Group was founded in 1963, with the formation of Harris consumer products, for which there is a large demand.
New Overseas Ltd, key dates in the Groups development are: - product developments, designs, colours and with key features 1970 - Company Headquarters and distribution Centre established hitting new, low price points, have led to increased market shares at Barking.
in the Portable Audio sector maintaining Alba as the brand to buy.
These volume sales, through both High Street retailers and mail 1971 - Hong Kong operations and first offices established.
order catalogues, have continued to be concentrated in the most 1980 - Harvard Maritime founded.
popular sectors that Alba now dominates.
1982 - Harris Overseas Limited renamed Harvard International Limited.
1987 - Harvard International renamed Alba plc.
Bush Radio plc During the year Bush, the largest division of the Alba plc floated on London Stock Exchange.
Group, maintained its share of the TV market, doubled its share of the burgeoning Televideo market and also enjoyed a very good year 1988 - Bush Radio acquired.
Whilst Bush is a multi-faceted entertainment Alba France acquired.
brand, television in all its forms is at the core of its business.
To 1989 - Hinari Domestic Appliances acquired.
maintain its position in the vanguard of this product sector, Bush has introduced new models with new technological features as 1994 - Goodmans Industries acquired.
these become financially accessible and demand for them reaches 1995 - Rights to Dirt Devil brand acquired.
the volume market, with medium size LCD TVs, RealFlat CRT Mainland China offices opened in Shenzhen.
screens, larger widescreen TVs, TV DVD, TV DVD VCR combinations and recordable DVD being just some examples.
addition, Bush has introduced new Integrated Digital TVs to take Additional China offices opened in Shanghai.
advantage of the Free-to-View digital programming and the Northern Distribution Centre opened in Newcastle.
renewed market emphasis and consumer interest in this sector.
Looking to stay ahead, Bush is developing new digital TVs and 1998 - Opening of Rugby Distribution Centre.
digital Set Top Boxes incorporating electronic programming guides EPG and intelligent links with recording devices.
1999 - Opening of Product Origination, Research & Development Centre.
Complementing these developments in the vision sector, and Rights to JCB brand acquired for Power Products DIY following the success of the Bush Acoustics brand, the audio range tools business.
has been both expanded and segmented further with Bush Purchase of Cable & Wireless under licence, Betacom Signature and Bush Diffusion to address broader markets and to and Answercall Telecoms business for non-mobile generate further growth.
New models being introduced include communications.
popular audio separates and DAB Digital Audio Broadcasting radios.
Incorporating UK original design work and featuring the 2000 - Launch of Bush Internet TV.
Sold 2003 new, less expensive chip sets that are now available, these DAB radios will meet the growing demand in this sector which is quickly 2001 - NTL Licence signed.
becoming well established in volume terms.
Purchase of Pulse Home Products Ltd. 2002 - Opening of Engineering Base in Suzhou.
Ministry of Sound Licence signed.
2003 - Carl Lewis Fitness Licence signed Elstree offices opened for Bush, Ministry of Sound Audio, Hinari and Group Logistics.
6 business & financial review Whilst maintaining a clear focus on the future, Bush is not forgetful and complete product programmes with retailers and higher of its history and has been successful in selecting and introducing market shares to be achieved adding to its overall success.
faithfully styled retro models incorporating the latest electronics, with more to follow.
Bush has also expanded its range of record turntables in its product portfolio and introduced Home DJ turntables and sound mixing kits.
The revival of vinyl records has had a dramatic effect on turntable sales and is set to grow further in 2003 2004.
Breville continues to be the UKs fastest growing small domestic appliance brand.
Already noted as the brand that brought the now ubiquitous sandwich toaster to the market, and these days being synonymous with this product, Breville dominates this sector into which it has launched character products with sound and premium Goodmans Industries Ltd Goodmans has achieved a very priced caf style models.
This focus on product development in significant year on year sales increase.
This has resulted from a core kitchen areas also led in Autumn 2002 to the introduction of strong performance across all sectors, most noticeably in vision the innovative Breville Lightning Kettle.
Designed in-house by products and, within this sector, from complete Home Cinema Pulse, this model includes features such as Keep Warm and packages now incorporating TV DVD combinations matched with Illumination.
And, released in time for the Christmas market and elegant speakers for which Goodmans is renowned.
given the benefit of TV advertising, the Lightening Kettle swiftly secured the position of being the UK Number One best selling Increases have also been gained across the audio, karaoke and inkettle.
Over the year, Breville has also gained a significant market car product spectrums where Goodmans has both updated share in kettles, toasters, deep fryers and grills and has entered the existing models, to ensure their continued success, and introduced irons market with its new Diva range.
new models with the latest features.
Continuing innovation and a focus on Digital technology has resulted in the timely and successful introduction of new, digital products to the volume market.
These include Free-to-View Digital TV Boxes, a range of digital cameras and importantly a Digital Radio DAB product range.
It is fair to say that Goodmans has pioneered affordable DAB digital products.
This work has involved close, direct collaboration with the DAB digital chip designers to take advantage Antony Worrall Thompson by Breville Since its roll out to of recent developments and bring these emerging technologies to major retailers in 2001, the new product range Antony Worrall the popular market.
Now, with the expansion of DAB programme Thompson by Breville, under licence, has continued its success by services and geographical coverage combined with greater consumer building leading shares in the food preparation market sector.
This awareness and affordable products, Goodmans is positioned to take growth continues as the expertise of this well-respected and full advantage of the growing demand in the DAB personal and Inpopular TV chef is introduced into other small kitchen appliance Car Entertainment sectors.
areas such as breadmakers, health grills, sandwich makers and coffee makers.
Roadstar UK Ltd Roadstar UKs strategy of identifying consumer demand for entertainment on the move has resulted in strong and significantly increased trading over the year.
Leisure interests with compactness and portability, plus multi-system capability, underline the mainline product features that have been expanded to include popular handheld LCD TVs.
Flexibility has allowed Roadstar to Nicky Clarke Electric, under licence, has grown significantly exploit the huge demand for portable products, engendered by throughout the year and is now Number 3 in the UK marketplace.
various international sporting events during the year, emphasising Following its successful launch, the Supermodels haircare range has Roadstars business claim to be the Entertainment On The Move broken new price boundaries by offering premium haircare specialist.
products for the considered purchaser.
Drawing on the expertise of the UKs number one designer hairdresser, Nicky Clarke, and his salon staff who are actively involved in the product development, innovation continues to be a core business philosophy.
This is demonstrated by the introduction of the popular Touch-Responsive Hinari Domestic Appliances On the UK market for 18 years, Hairdryer, which is being followed by other products, which we are the Hinari brand is firmly established within the industry as the confident, will be of great interest to the consumer.
natural starting point within each of its numerous product sectors.
This led to Hinari achieving a notable success with microwave ovens and, again, to the selling of significant numbers of toasters, sandwich makers, domestic irons and many other small domestic products over the year.
Hinari has continued to expand its business by broadening its existing ranges and by entering related product areas.
These developments have allowed increased listings 7 business & financial review Bush Domestic Appliances Re-positioning under the Pulse Harvard Communications has firmly established both its NTL umbrella, has provided essential product range development and Cable & Wireless licensed brands.
With these and other key business benefits, Bush performed well within the domestic arena and have achieved an Domestic Appliances has continued to grow its market shares with important presence within the telecommunications product ranges a range of small kitchen appliances offering quality, reliability and of the major retailers.
A significant feature of the market this year value for money.
has been the huge demand for high ticket value DECT multi-packs consisting of a telephone base station with up to three additional handsets.
These provide complete communication flexibility throughout the home and garden or small business unit.
In addition to this ongoing development of our own brands, Harvard Communications is highly active in the OEM field and supplies a Power Devils total product range comprises general, workshop number of third parties with telecommunication products.
and powered garden tools, outdoor leisure products and car accessory products where Power Devil is trusted and widely recognised as a brand that offers both innovation and value for money.
The Power Devil business has benefited from the restructuring of its organisation, product range, stock holding and targeted Harvard Giftware supplies bespoke Giftware product ranges to customer base and it is now in good shape to realise further the high street, supermarkets and other major retailers.
to anticipate popular trends and provide exclusive product programmes encompassing a broad sweep of consumer interests, hobbies and pastimes has lead to a significant increase in awareness and opportunities with a wider retail audience in addition to established retail customers.
JCB Power Products, under licence, is a substantial force within its market place and the last financial year saw an impressive sales performance through its established retail channels.
With their distinctive bold yellow livery, JCB Power Products trade heavily on the rugged, robust brand identity that is unmistakably JCB.
The JCB marque makes an obvious and immediately recognisable statement Ministry of Sound Audio Under the licensing agreement with about brand perception and positioning, which is both driving the Ministry of Sound, the worlds leading dance music brand, Alba is current level of sales and providing the springboard for further developing and marketing a distinctive range of lifestyle audio developments.
products primarily aimed at the growing youth market.
The range, which is branded Ministry of Sound and which had a soft launch in time for the Christmas market, is now widely available through the UKs major retailers.
Ministry of Sound Audio complements Albas existing audio products and significantly broadens the Groups offering in this sector.
Dirt Devil, under licence, has achieved another excellent year.
This performance and an increase in its market shares have placed Dirt Devil into the top five brands in its market sector.
Continued expansion of both its customer base and product range has taken place, including the introduction of licensed workshop and garage vacuum products under the JCB brand.
Dirt Devil has benefited from the new Group R & D Centre in Suzhou, China which has Carl Lewis Fitness adds another brand under licence to the facilitated much of its product refinement.
Plans underway point to Groups portfolio.
Under this brand, we are developing a range of an encouraging future and include new, innovative products in the personal fitness products, including motorised treadmills, exercise highly competitive cylinder and upright markets and the exploration cycles and elliptical machines.
Subsequent to the year-end, trading of non-traditional products under the Dirt Devil brand.
commenced through listings achieved with key retailers.
8 business & financial review International Operations Harvard International Hong Kong Ltd. From its main offices Roadstar Management S A Europe.
Based in Ticino, in Hong Kong, this company controls the Groups resourcing, Switzerland, Roadstar possesses a well-known brand, market engineering, quality control, design and sales activities in the Far knowledge, and an established infrastructure that has transformed East.
To provide essential engineering and quality control coverage, the Groups position in Europe.
Roadstar controls the Groups engineering bases, product testing facilities and qualified staff are mainland Europe divisions and operations, which include Roadstar placed close to the areas of manufacturing in Shenzhen and Italia SpA, Roadstar Deutschland GmbH, and Alba France SA.
During the year, the Shenzhen location was expanded and Ticino is the Italian Canton of Switzerland and through Roadstar the Suzhou base had its official opening.
Italia, Roadstar has been able to treat Italy as part of its home market, building its business in a similar fashion to the Alba Group major companies in the UK.
Today, most major retailers in Italy are customers for Roadstar and Goodmans TV, DVD, Video and Audio products that are shortly to be joined by JCB Power Products.
Harvard Maritime Ltd. Harvard Maritime Ltd provides Roadstar has also achieved substantial sales in Germany, France, customers with a complete in-house and direct import service Switzerland, Spain, Turkey and Egypt where the assembly of audio from product planning through to shipping and on-time delivery products has been established in co-operation with their local worldwide.
Over many years it has built sales under the Group distributor.
In addition, Roadstar has continued its sales and OEM brands, for a wide spread of the companys products, to penetration in the former Eastern Bloc countries.
many regions of the world.
In addition to the UK and Continental All logistics, including warehousing, distribution and servicing, have Europe, it has supplied customers in Turkey, Egypt, Australia, South been centralised for optimum handling and distribution throughout America and, more recently, Mexico and Japan.
Over the year and mainland Europe.
The advantages of a highly economic operation using its commercial strengths, Harvard Maritime Ltd has also with maximum savings, ensures Roadstar is able to compete in all successfully developed new product areas which have included its natural markets by supplying good quality, reliable products at extensive ranges of toiletry items.
keen prices under the banner of well-known brands.
9 business & financial review Trade Finance than for other types of borrowing because of the Financial Review short-term nature of the liability.
Added to this the Group has The Groups capital structure may be split between Debt Finance enjoyed an unblemished reputation with its banks for many years, 42.7m and Shareholders Funds 75.9m.
The cashflow from having always been extremely prompt in meeting its obligations operating activities has been mainly offset by the funding of the and handling all matters appertaining to its business with increased level of sales and the cost of construction of a major banks efficiently.
new UK distribution facility, resulting in Group borrowings reducing by 0.4m.
Liquidity Risk As regards liquidity, the Groups policy has sought, since the current structure was first established in the An analysis of taxation is set out in Note 8 of the accounts.
The 1970s, to ensure continuity of funding through the maintenance of taxation charge as a percentage of profit before taxation was 20.4% excellent relationships with its banks.
Through the use of extensive in the current year and 7.8% in the previous year.
This compares letter of credit facilities financed via bank import advances, the with the statutory rate of 30%.
The effective tax rate is below the Group is able to ensure the availability of required funding, whilst UK statutory rate as a result of profits made in lower tax regions offering the banks the comfort and security that allows facilities to outside of the United Kingdom and the use of tax losses brought be readily increased as and when required.
Foreign Currency Risk Most of the Groups purchases are The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise in currencies different from the selling currency.
It is the Groups borrowings, some cash and liquid resources and various items, such policy to eliminate approximately 80% of this exposure when purchase programmes are planned through a combination of as trade debtors, trade creditors etc, that arise directly from its forward currency contracts and options.
All remaining exposure is operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to eliminated at the time of shipment.
The Group had cumulative raise finance for the Groups operations.
aggregate realised but unrecognised gains on foreign currency risk The Group also enters into derivatives transactions principally hedges of 1.0m 2002 : nil at 31 March 2003. forward foreign currency contracts and options.
The purpose of The Group has overseas subsidiary companies, operating in Hong such transactions is to manage the currency risks arising from the Kong, Switzerland, Italy, Germany and France.
It is, and has been throughout the period Sterling balance sheet is partly protected from movements in under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial exchange rates by financing a proportion of its net investment in instruments shall be undertaken.
The financial management of banking facilities employed by the Group has been organised within a system which has operated Interest rate risk profile of financial assets successfully and efficiently for the past twenty-five years.
The and financial liabilities Group enjoys facilities with a significant number of banks, relations The Group has no financial assets, other than short-term debtors with most of whom date back for a considerable period of time.
The Groups net financial liabilities at 31 March The major borrowing requirement is for Trade Finance where, 2003, excluding short term debtors and creditors, all of which although the Groups requirements are large, they are amply were at a floating rate of interest were:- covered by the facilities available.
31 March 31 March 2003 2002 The business of importing from the Far East in particular and Currency millions millions elsewhere to a large extent is best carried out by means of Sterling 31.9 38.6 irrevocable Letters of Credit Documentary Credits.
This is the US Dollar 12.3 4.6 payment instrument that manufacturers in the Far East are most HK Dollar 0.2 0.5 comfortable with and know best and which encourages them to Euro 1.0 9.6 provide best buying terms.
The Groups rights in these goods are CHF 0.7 - ultimately protected by all Letters of Credit having to include with 42.7 43.1 the documentation inspection certificates provided by the Groups own international offices confirming that in quality and all other All the above were at a floating rate of interest other than 0.1m details shipments have conformed to our requirements.
of the Sterling financial liability which is at an average interest rate of approx 6.2%, fixed for between 1 and 2 years.
The floating rate The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are financial liabilities comprise: interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board Sterling denominated bank borrowings and overdrafts that bear reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and interest at rates based on either the Base Rate or LIBOR, and they are summarised below.
These policies have remained unchanged since 1 April 2002.
Foreign denominated bank borrowings that bear interest at rates based on the US Prime rate, FIBOR and similar.
Interest Rate Risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Group borrows in the desired currencies at floating rates of Currency exposures interest.
It is the view of the Group that Banks are service As explained above, the Groups objectives in managing the providers in the same way as shipping companies, insurance currency exposures arising from its net investment overseas are to companies etc.
Having many banks, the Group can utilise this retain some potential for currency related appreciation while competitive situation to ensure that all banks lend on best partially hedging against currency depreciation.
Gains and losses borrowing terms.
This is further enhanced by the fact that banks arising from these structural currency exposures are recognised in have traditionally provided facilities at lower rates of interest on the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
10 business & financial review The table below shows the Groups currency exposures: in other Maturity of financial liabilities words, those transactional or non-structural exposures that give The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 March rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the profit 2003 was as follows:- and loss account.
Such exposure comprises the monetary assets 2003 2002 and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in millions millions the operating or functional currency of the operating unit In one year or less, or on demand 42.7 43.0 involved.
As at 31 March 2003 the exposures were as follows:- In more than one year but not more than two years 0.1 42.7 43.1 Functional Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities in millions currency of Group US$ Euro CHF TOTAL operation 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 Borrowing facilities HK$ 2.8 6.8 2.8 6.8 As at 31 March 2003 the Group had undrawn borrowings and trade finance related facilities of approximately 156 million, all of US$ 2.8 2.6 0.5 3.3 2.6 which is renewable within one year.
0.1 1.7 0.1 0.5 0.2 1.2 2.7 5.1 2.9 3.1 0.5 0.7 8.2 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities There is no material difference between the book values and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2002 and 2003.
