MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility 31 At Meggitt, we recognise our responsibility to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community to conduct our operations in a safe, responsible and sustainable manner.
We are committed to ensuring compliance with all relevant national laws and regulations and aim to continually improve our financial, social and environmental performance.
Policy Action Meggitt is committed to: For our stakeholders, this means: upholding sound corporate governance providing safe working environments principles modern operational practices providing a supportive, rewarding and effective risk identication and safe working environment mitigation conducting business relationships in an dynamic business continuity plans ethical manner maintaining  the environmental impact of accredited environmental products and processes management systems acting as a responsible supplier and conducting independent audits encouraging our contractors and suppliers to do the same professional and comprehensive employee training programmes supporting our local communities the social and economic enrichment of local communities robust internal and external reporting and controls ensuring financial probity MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 32 Corporate responsibility Meggitt continues to focus on  Governance and compliance materials initiatives and programmes.
We formed an Meggitts Corporate Responsibility CR Policypublished on Obsolescence Review Board in 2012, consisting of senior health, www.
comunderpins the way we manage social, safety and environment, procurement, engineering, quality and ethical and environmental issues.
We devote significant internal legal managers who meet regularly to review regulatory resources to implementing it across Meggitt facilities developments and supply chain issues affecting substances worldwide.
Every facility records important data on employees, used in our processes and products.
We are collaborating with supply chain and health, safety and environmental HSE several customers and suppliers to identify and test safer performance.
alternatives to address the increasingly restricted use of particular substances following global regulatory CR is overseen by our Group Corporate Affairs Director.
Meggitt applies its expertise, research and matters, trade compliance and ethics and business conduct are technology to develop solutions that sustain product quality and managed by a highly experienced team of functional specialists.
performance yet reduce its impact on the environment over the The Board has appointed an Ethics and Trade Compliance product lifecycle.
Committee to ensure we have effective programmes in these areas and to oversee their management.
The Board reviews HSE Compliance with the European Community regulation on at every meeting and receives a quarterly written report from Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of the Vice-President, Health, Safety and Environment.
Divisional Chemicals REACH is managed by the groups REACH Steering presidents and site directors are responsible for implementing Committee which has been active in completing due diligence our policies locally.
and dealing with the risks associated with the potential obsolescence of chemicals used by aerospace manufacturers.
Environment The HSE Director for Meggitt Sensing Systems is a member of the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europes Meggitts Group Environmental Policy, which was reviewed and REACH Implementation Working Group, enabling us to source updated by the Board in January 2012, commits us to: and compare information about REACH compliance across the industry.
Our Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment is complying with applicable environmental legislation a member of the AIA REACH Working Group.
reducing the environmental impact of our own and our suppliers products and operations Our global environmental audit programme is supported by ensuring our employees act in an environmentally external consultants and includes a comprehensive review of responsible manner applicable regulatory requirements and best practice standards at all facilities every three years.
As a result of this continuous audit programme, we have improved our performance on Meggitt strives to maintain the highest level of environmental inspections conducted by external regulatory agencies, performance by setting standards and procedures driven by our reducing the number of regulatory citations received in 2012 corporate leadership and implemented throughout our by 38% on 2011. businesses.
To achieve the goals of our Environmental Policy, All facilities, excluding those acquired since 2011, have Meggitts environmental management programme includes successfully attained environmental management system setting environmental targets, communicating regulatory ISO 14001 standard certication.
Pacic scientific Aerospace developments, training and information-sharing, data analysis PacSci facilities are targeting certication by the end of 2013. and internal and external auditing of environmental management systems and practices.
In 2010, we committed to reducing our carbon footprint by 15% in five years relative to revenue using our performance in 2009 as a Meggitt is a signatory to the Sustainable Aviation Strategy of the baseline.
We are on track to meet this goal with a 10% reduction ADS Group the UKs primary aerospace, defence and security between 2009 and 2012 in CO emissions, equating to an trade association, is represented on the associations 2 emission reduction rate of greater than 3% per year excluding environmental and carbon management working groups and the the impact of businesses acquired during the period.
Meggitt US Aerospace Industry Association AIA Environmental, Health incorporated PacSci into its Meggitt Energy Reduction and Safety Committee.
Programme MERP in 2012, implementing energy reduction We provide emissions data to the Carbon Disclosure Project, a strategies and initiatives at its facilities which have reduced our non-governmental initiative that measures and discloses the carbon footprint further.
Including businesses acquired during greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies of the period, we have achieved a 17% reduction to date in CO 2 organisations around the world.
Meggitt is a registered emissions relative to revenue since 2009. participant in the UKs CRC Energy efficiency Scheme.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 33 In 2012, we established group five-year targets to reduce Total waste generated increased by 21% relative to revenue in electricity, gas and water consumption and waste destined for 2012.
This increase was primarily due to the amount of waste landll and to increase waste that is recycled.
Using 2011 for generated at Fotomechanix.
Excluding Fotomechanix: i the comparison, we are targeting: increase relative to revenue was 5% and can be attributed to increased construction debris generated by site consolidation a 15% reduction in electricity and gas consumption relative to and expansion: ii total waste recycled and waste sent to revenue.
landll as a percentage of total waste generated remained a 10% reduction in water consumption relative to revenue.
the same at 48% and 49% respectively, as constructiona 10% reduction in the amount of waste sent to landll as a related waste generated in 2012 could not be recycled.
percentage of total waste generated.
a 10% increase in the amount of waste recycled as a MERP improves information and the sharing of best practice on percentage of total waste generated.
energy performance through an intranet site providing detailed information on energy efficiency projects and their The metrics for 2012 show we are making good progress implementation.
Designated energy teams at every facility towards meeting our target for a reduction in gas consumption quantify the carbon impact of our operations and identify compared to 2011.
However, increased facility consolidation and opportunities for reducing energy consumption and improving expansion activities, acquisitions and an increase in production efficiency.
of carbon brakes within our aircraft braking systems business last year had a negative effect on electricity consumption and We continually seek improvements in our operations and waste sent to landll.
Facility consolidation activities should processes to achieve reductions in energy consumption and improve the metrics in the longer term, although the trend improve efficiencies.
For example: towards an increase in the manufacture of carbon brakes will In February 2012, our aircraft braking systems facility in continue to have an adverse impact.
Akron, USA, completed a 900,000 energy reduction project The group achieved a 6% reduction in gas consumption due, involving the conversion of central steam heat to direct red largely, to gas efficiency initiatives completed at our aircraft natural gas heaters.
This reduced CO by 2,768 tonnes in 2 braking systems facility in Akron, USA.
2012, a 10% reduction in the overall emissions for the facility Electricity consumption relative to revenue increased by 4% and a 2% reduction in emissions for the group as a whole.
in 2012 due to increased production of carbon brakes, facility The facility installed new high-efficiency compressors to expansion and consolidation activities and the acquisition of replace existing reciprocating models and the leak-prone air Fotomechanix a key supplier to Heatric, our printed circuit distribution system.
This should save 500 tonnes of CO 2 heat exchanger business which we acquired in July 2012. emissions per year.
Water consumption increased by 5% relative to revenue in 2012, due to the high water consumption at Fotomechanix.
Excluding Fotomechanix, water consumption decreased relative to revenue by 1%.
1 Environmental metrics 2012 Change 2011 Utilities Electricity gWh 188 175 2 MWh per m 118 4% 114 Natural gas gWh 199 204 2 MWh per m 125 -6% 133 3 Carbon dioxide CO tonnes @ 2012 rates 134,444 128,598 2 2 Tonnes per m 84.2 0% 84.1 Waste tonnes 12,861 10,160 2 Tonnes per m 8.05 21% 6.65 Water cubic metres 806,941 737,764 2 Cubic metres per m 505 5% 483 1 Our environmental metrics are reported in full on the CR page of our website.
2 Metrics per m are calculated using revenue converted at constant foreign exchange rates.
3 Meggitts carbon emissions data is derived from electricity, gas and fuel oils usage converted using the 2012 greenhouse gas conversion factors of the UK Department for Environment and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
For electricity only, DEFRA updates prior years conversion factors annually, so Meggitts carbon emissions arising from electricity usage in 2011 have been restated.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 34 Corporate responsibility Environment continued Health and safety Over the past two years, several Meggitt facilities upgraded their lighting.
They converted standard low-efficiency Meggitts commitment to protecting its employees is incandescent lamps to high-efficiency compact uorescent emphasised in our Health and Safety Policy, which was reviewed models and installed improved halogen lighting systems and and updated by the Board in December 2011.
This policy outlines occupancy sensors in ofce and factory areas.
This has our commitment to: reduced our carbon footprint by approximately 1,000 tonnes formal management systems for regulatory and legislative per year.
compliance and guidance on best practice In 2012, we formed an energy kaizen multi-level, multiintegrating identication, assessment and control of health disciplinary problem-solving team.
This comprised energy and safety risks into operational management management and heating, ventilation and air conditioning incorporating health and safety thinking into business plans specialists and facility engineers from across the group to instilling the importance of health and safety in employees at perform internal energy efficiency assessments at several all levels and providing all employees and temporary workers sites.
At Meggitt Control Systems in North Hollywood, an with appropriate health and safety information and training energy kaizen event was conducted in Q4 2012 and led to delivering products and services that can be installed, sound monitoring equipment being used to identify leaks in operated and maintained without risk to health and safety as the compressed air system and repairs resulting in energy far as possible savings.
More events are planned for Meggitt US facilities consulting stakeholders on health and safety risk management in 2013.
Meggitt Polymers & Composites in Oregon, USA, replaced an old, inefficient moulding press with a new high-efficiency Strong, supportive leadership is essential to a sustainable safety model, raising production efficiency by 70% and lowering CO 2 culture.
In 2012 we implemented new training programmes for emissions by 17 tonnes per year.
all levels of leadership to achieve the primary goals of our health and safety programme.
As employees can contribute substantially by recognising and reporting unsafe and unhealthy conditions in the workplace promptly, we require them to take individual responsibility for health and safety and to encourage safe workplace behaviour in others.
Carbon Cutting process time by 75% refurbishment programme Beginning in 2009, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems in Akron, USA, developed a carbon disc recycling programme to recover and refurbish customers used or worn aircraft carbon disc brakes.
Instead of disposing of them, Meggitt reprocesses them using a carbon re-densication process.
Reprocessing and reusing worn carbon discs reduces process time by as much as 75% compared to new carbon disc production, signicantly reducing energy consumption, carbon emissions and waste generation.
Since implementing this programme in recovering and refurbishing 2009, carbon manufacturing process emissions at carbon brake discs the facility have decreased by 3%.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 35 In 2012, we took further measures to improve safety in the Trade compliance workplace.
These included: online health and safety leadership training for all levels of Meggitts Trade Compliance Policy outlines our commitment to management.
comply fully with the laws and regulations governing trade group-wide online health and safety awareness training for controls in the jurisdictions in which we operate all employees.
integration of health and safety requirements within the Meggitt Production System initiative.
Meggitts group-wide trade compliance programme is based on targeted behavioural health and safety programmes such as the model of excellence outlined in the Nunn-Wolfowitz Task MoveSmart at Meggitt Polymers & Composites facility in Force Report of 2000the inuential report on export Rockmart, US and Hearts and Minds at Meggitt Polymers & compliance best practiceand US Government guidelines.
We Composites in Loughborough, UK.
We aim to roll out the achieve multiple levels of accountability using four key process latter across identied sites from 2013. toolsassessment, compliance improvement, audit and implementation of an updated group-wide Personal corrective actionwhich are applied in a continuum.
Plans Protective Equipment policy for eye and foot protection.
arising from the review elements enable 16 sub-processes for improved reporting and investigation of near-miss accidents our facilities to be tracked by managers at all levels, including and unsafe conditions, with special emphasis on root-cause the executive leadership team.
analysis and developing timely corrective action plans.
Meggitts trade compliance teams receive training and access to These measures have resulted in significant improvements in key subject matter experts inside the group and from global health and safety performance across the group and trade compliance advisors Livingston International formerly the outstanding achievements at some of our sites: Vastera element of JP Morgan Trade Management Consulting.
Meggitts trade compliance website, a customised database of 17 manufacturing sites experienced no lost time due to training modules, forms, templates, regulations, editorial and accidents 2011:13 company policy and procedures, is comprehensive and well- 15 additional sites achieved at least a 25% improvement in respected by experts in the eld.
key health and safety metrics, including lost time incidents, days lost due to injury and injury severity rates.
In 2012, we continued to implement our selected global trade management software solution, Global Trade Services GTS 8.0, There were no fatalities at Meggitt sites in 2012 2011: none.
In to enhance our trade compliance programme.
We completed the 1 2012, the number of reported injuries including PacSci pilot programme successfully and started the implementation 2 increased to 43 2011: 39.
The accident incident rate including at selected facilities in the USA.
We have started to develop the 3 PacSci decreased to 397 2011: 417. template for implementation at some of our European facilities We instituted the annual Meggitt Safety Star Programme to in 2013.
In 2012 we began to implement our enhanced import formally recognise the improvements in health and safety compliance programme at a number of facilities in the UK, and performance at Meggitt facilities.
70% of our manufacturing plan to expand this programme to the US in 2013. facilities achieved at least a Bronze Safety Star award reecting at least a 25% improvement in key health and safety metrics.
Of Business ethics those, 17 facilities will receive a Platinum Safety Star award for outstanding performance in achieving no work-related lost time Meggitts Ethics and Business Conduct Policy commits us to: accidents and incurring no lost work days in 2012.
The Meggitt Safety Star Awards will be awarded to sites in Q1 2013 and will conducting business fairly, impartially and in full compliance be presented by senior group or divisional management.
with applicable laws and regulations integrity and honesty in all our business relationships We continue to disseminate information and best practice internally and externally through intra-group HSE conferences, health and safety alerts and all-employee safety bulletins.
Our Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and Code of Conduct, overseen by the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee, must be followed by all employees and advisers.
All employees have received Code of Conduct and anti-corruption training and are required to view our ethics training videos which are released regularly.
We are a signatory to the Statement of Adherence to the Global Principles of Business Ethics for the Aerospace and Defence Industry.
The Group Corporate Affairs Director is a member of the Business Ethics Committee of the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe.
Our Vice-President, Ethics and Business Conduct serves on the Steering Committee 1 We define reported injuries as those which are reportable under of the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct IFBEC.
2 The accident incident rate is calculated by taking the number During 2012, Meggitts Ethics Programme was evaluated, along of reported injuries, multiplied by 100,000 and dividing it by the with 128 other aerospace companies around the world, by average employee headcount during the year.
Transparency International: Meggitt was ranked in the top ten.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 36 1 1 1 Employees by division Employees by length of service years Employees by region Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 10,980 10,980 10,980 Aircraft Braking Systems 1,228 11% Less than 5 4,822 44% Control Systems 1,156 10% Between 5 and 10 2,440 22% Polymers & Composites 2,041 19% Between 10 and 15 1,253 11% North America 6,011 55% Sensing Systems 1,617 15% Between 15 and 20 718 7% UK 2,597 24% Equipment Group 4,400 40% Between 20 and 25 520 5% Mainland Europe 1,593 14% Cross-group facilities 538 5% Over 25 1,227 11% Rest of World 779 7% 1 As at 31 December 2012 At Meggitt, all employees must have an equal opportunity to Our people, local communities and succeed, free from discrimination and have their contribution charitable donations recognised fairly.
We encourage all Meggitt employees, through At the end of 2012, Meggitt employed 10,980 people worldwide.
our Ethics training programme and statement of values, to ensure that all others are treated fairly and with respect.
Learning, career development, employee engagement, strong leadership and effective teamwork are vital components of Meggitt makes an important economic contribution to our Meggitts drive for all employees to deliver high levels of local communities, with salaries, tax and social security performance.
In 2012, we expanded our global change contributions across the group amounting to approximately leadership programme to equip managers with the skills needed 548 million in 2012 34% of revenue.
to work in a complex matrix environment and to become more Individual Meggitt facilities work with the local community effective team leaders.
2012 saw the introduction of a global and support charities at their discretion.
Annual reports front-line leadership programme, designed to equip managers reveal the exceptional generosity of many employees who with a consistent set of people management capabilities.
We give time and money to a wide range of international and local continue to invest in our executive leadership programme.
Education-Business Partnerships and the UKs During 2013, we will launch the Meggitt Production System Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics initiative across the group after significant preparatory work in 2012, were supported by sites locally, as were a variety of including a significant focus on people and organisation community-based charities.
Throughout the year, we focused on processes for succession planning, stafng, and performance management to attract, develop and motivate talented staff in all areas of our businesses.
We completed much of the groundwork for a new global HR information system that will be implemented in 2013.
The new system will enhance the processes needed for talent management.
