Corporate social responsibility The Micro Focus corporate social responsibility CSR Micro Focus continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index, programme forms part of a broader commitment to effective the responsible investment index calculated by global index provider corporate governance for the Group.
CSR policies and activities FTSE Group.
at Micro Focus are reviewed and monitored at board level with non executive director involvement in the CSR committee.
The CSR Policy at Micro Focus covers four areas the environment, The Committee meets regularly to agree priorities and progress people, charity and community support, employees and ethics activities.
During the year ended 30 April 2012, the CSR and the marketplace and suppliers.
Please visit our website committee met fi five times.
com about responsibility to read our full Corporate Responsibility Policy.
The Micro Focus Group is committed to best practice in CSR.
The board and management team, employees, shareholders, customers, The table below outlines CSR progress in the year ended 30 April 2012 business partners, suppliers and local communities all infl uence across the four focus areas: the structure and development of the CSR policies and plans.
CSR considerations increasingly feature in day-to-day operations and planning of the Group.
Our CSR progress CSR progress in the year ended 30 April 2012 across the four focus areas.
Environment Micro Focus products and services help customers to reduce their Year on year UK energy consumption fi gures submitted carbon footprint and adopt carbon friendly IT strategies by enabling for external verifi cation to obtain Carbon-Trust certifi cation greater effi ciency and longer life from existing technology and in the year ending 30 April 2013: equipment.
In addition to offering organisations alternative strategies to rip and replace IT policies, Micro Focus continues to develop its Commitments from growing number of location landlords own policies to record, monitor and achieve improvements effectively concerning ongoing support of our eco-environmental in its own carbon footprint.
objectives: During the year ending 30 April 2012, Micro Focus has started New Gold standard LEED certifi ed offi ce in Milan, Italy work with the Carbon Trust organisation to independently now fully operational: audit and provide footprint certifi cation towards the Carbon Trust Standard award which recognises environmental practices Changes made to recycling practices have resulted in UK and achievements.
Results of this fi first audit will be available corporate headquarters building achieving Zero-to-Landfi ll during the summer of 2012: waste production level: and Third year of commitment to the Carbon Disclosure Project, Reduction in CO2 emissions for year-on-year of 5.53% targeting reductions in the emission of carbon across global 34.3 tonnes.
operations in 29 countries: More than 90% of product deliveries are now electronic compared to physical product distribution: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 Charity and community support Micro Focus employees increasingly support their local communities Network of local offi ce charity and community contacts and this is actively encouraged by the Group, along agreed criteria and now established across the Group: guidelines.
Corporate support is provided on a funds-matching basis by allocating a number of employee days per month for team and Rolled out new project grants initiative worldwide, starting national activities which directly benefi t a charity or community in October 2011: initiative.
See the detailed table on page 13.
Global staff support for selected global charity Red Cross Global and local charity and community support policy agreed for two months: and and communicated to all staff: Improved employee communications through Charity page All new initiatives follow core themes of education and local on the Company Intranet.
community building: Total level of company matching funds were $53,000 and communicated to all employees: Employees and ethics During the year ended 30 April 2012, Micro Focus has refocused In the year ended 30 April 2012 an international Sharesave the workforce on its software products heritage, and aligned the scheme roll out was completed.
This has broadened access organisation and employees to produce or sell those software products, to equity ownership for employees.
Sharesave is now available or support those who do.
In a year of stabilization, employee to 93.4% of employees in 23 countries around the world: development plans have matured and the measurement and monitoring of those plans has also improved.
The Group continues Flexible Benefi ts scheme is offered to all UK employees.
to develop a culture that provides a rewarding and enjoyable working Approximately two thirds of employees choose to take environment for employees that are able to develop their careers in advantage of fl exible benefi ts compared to standard a professional and successful organisation.
employee package: Key HR Metrics at 30 April 2012: Launched new online recruitment and applicant tracking tool Open Hire in March 2012, along with training for hiring Total Number of Employees Worldwide 1,195: managers.
This will enable enhanced reporting of candidate demographics: Total Workforce Worldwide 1,337 including temporary contractors: Regular employee communications through intranet, video, email, and monthly town hall meetings: % Women Employees Worldwide 27.8% up from 25.96% at end of FY11 : Spend on training within functions in the year ended 30 April 2012 increased by 40% compared to the prior year:.
% Women Senior Management 20.2%: Maintained excellent record in health and safety matters % Women Directors and Offi cers 28.6% two out of seven for all employees no reportable incidents in last 12 months : including Company Secretary : The Company published a revised Worldwide Code of 429 leadership development training days conducted during the Business Conduct and Ethics in July 2011 which is regularly year ended 30 April 2012: communicated to all staff and includes policies on anti-bribery and corruption and whistleblowing: A half year bonus for fi financial year 2012 was paid to 677 eligible employees.
A full year bonus was paid to 712 eligible employees: Global Anti-Bribery, Corruption and Market Abuse Online training course rolled out to all employees, completed and passed by more than 95% of all employees: and More than 90% of employee population completed a half year performance management plan PMP and more than 92% completed a full year PMP for the year ended 30 April 2012.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Corporate social responsibility continued Marketplace and suppliers Micro Focus products and services can help organisations lower their Suppliers CSR charter included in communication to all carbon footprints.
More details are provided in the case study below.
Rest of World to follow in the year ending Suppliers to the Group are sent Micro Focus Corporate Social 30 April 2013: and Responsibility charter and are encouraged to follow carbon responsible practices.
Supplier Rationalization total number of suppliers has been reduced by 37% for better management, reduction Marketplace increasing number of customers recognising in paperwork and carbon footprint.
This rationalization review benefi ts provided by using Micro Focus products: includes supplier CSR performance.
Leading Mexican energy supplier reduces carbon footprint with Micro Focus Exceeding compliance requirements Each project undertaken by CFE incorporates appropriate actions that go beyond compliance with current environmental protection and cultural heritage regulations, and projects are developed with sustainability as a priority.
This extends to the companys approach to the technology it uses.
With fewer sites, the Micro Focus tools allow us to provide electricity to citizens in an environmentally conscious way.
High integrity, availability and fl exibility Gerard Trevio, IT Sales Coordination Chief, CFE CFEs IT infrastructure handles information concerning its 36m customers.
It has to provide high availability during mission critical operations and total fl exibility to make changes that the Commission requires.
It therefore requires a robust, high performing and fl exible 60% reduction in electricity costs.
Lower carbon footprint by reducing from 130 servers to 16.
As the most prominent programming language in the industry, Micro Focus COBOL is used by CFE to process requests for information Saves over 3 million sheets of paper each month.
from the company in a way that is easy to implement and understand.
CFE has the largest Liant COBOL product base in the world installed Since 1990 Micro Focus has been a fundamental part of the IT under an SCO platform, to handle its two main systems: SICOM and infrastructure of Mexicos Federal Electricity Commission SICOSS.
Over time, elements of the systems have been updated and CFE, and is playing an important role in the energy companys modifi ed.
These systems scale up to accommodate an annual growth commitment to environmental objectives.
As an environmentally of around 4 to 5%, representing an annual increase of approximately and socially responsible company, CFE designs, builds and a million additional users.
By the end of 2012, CFE plans to migrate operates an electrical infrastructure while promoting a Good its current 130 servers in Mexico to a 16 each one will administrate Neighbour philosophy.
One of CFEs responsibilities is to select around three million users.
This rationalisation project contributes the best alternatives for location, construction design and its to CFEs environmental commitment.
operations to avoid soil, air quality and water deterioration.
CFE ensures the preservation of plant and animal species that make Server reduction delivers energy savings up the various ecosystems, as well as the conditions that enable Transforming the technology platform to fewer servers will see people to maintain, and possibly improve, their quality of life.
us reduce costs by 70% and energy by 60%, says Gerardo Trevio, IT Sales Coordination Chief for the CFE.
The server reduction has been carried out every fi five or six years and also involves changes in the companys processes including readings, invoicing, delivery, collection and registration.
More than three million sheets of paper a month will be saved in printing due to the decrease in daily reports.
This is thanks to the design of various repositories permitted by the advanced technology platform.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 A focus on charity and community relations In the year ended 30 April 2012, the Group has continued to help Micro Focus is committed to working with local communities many of the organisations it has supported in prior years, as well as on projects that help children and young adults in all regions of the new organisations, to ensure the benefi cial impact is sustainable.
world where there is a Group operational presence.
The programme Some examples are below: focuses on supporting education, music, sport and community building activities.
The Group raises awareness of community issues, both internally and externally, through the allocation of project grants where money and employee time are used to help employeenominated charities.
Infrastructure for local community 2,000 and 24 employee hours spent building a sanitary block in Micro Focus Austin offi ce furniture donated to Eagles Wings St. Annes School, Chennai, India to provide 1,100 pupils with Retreat Centre to refurbish two dormitories and a meeting hall access to sanitation for youth in Central Texas, US Community services and employee volunteering As part of National Good Deeds Day in Israel, 18 employees 2,000 provided to help Westwind 4-H Riding for the provided desks and spent 126 hours decorating them with Handicapped, Santa Clara, US, to offer riding instruction disadvantaged Ethiopian children to equip 50 disadvantaged to physically and psychologically disabled children aged 5-19 children at home, each with their own desk and chair During Be a Saint Day in Belfast, Northern Ireland, a team of fi five employees spent 40 hours restoring and decorating a room in a Nursery to provide single mothers with a free nursery space so that they can return to work Poverty alleviation Five employees renovated the library and purchased books for 2,000 funds provided and fi five employees helped St. John the Webster Elementary School, Detroit, US, which has an 83% Baptist school, Chatswood, NSW, Australia to provide backpacks poverty level.
All pupils now have access to books to improve their with school uniform and supplies for 19 children of single parents, reading skills fi nancially challenged or drug-dependent families Funds provided to help Mount Carmel School in New Delhi, India, to provide free education, meals counselling and medical care to 250 children in slum areas Philanthropy and charitable giving 6,000 raised for global campaign Movember to support 8,380 raised for Red Cross global Disaster Fund which enables research into prostate cancer support to any chosen disaster within the vital fi first few days 7,050 raised for National Autistic Society, UK to help fund counsellors and respite centres for sufferers and families Total community and charity expenditure Project grants to support local communities totalled 16,000 and A total of 40,953 was given to charities, and 80 employee hours 190 employee hours were spent in Austria, Australia, India, Israel, Multiple Sclerosis, British Heart Foundation, Childrens Leukemia UK, USA St. Annes school, Mount Carmel school, St. John the Foundation, South Bulgaria Flood Relief, Ummah Welfare Trust, Baptist school, Webster Elementary school, Westwind 4-H Riding Home-Start UK, Scope, Oxfam, Praxis, Action Against Cancer, for the Handicapped, Stiftung Kindertraum, and the Western Manna Food Bank, The Princes Trust, Swings and Smiles, CLIC Haifa Community Centre Sargent, Inspired Living, Movember, Yabonga Childrens Project, Marie Curie, Habitat for Humanity, National Autistic Society, and the International Red Cross Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
