Performance Corporate social responsibility Governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Corporate social responsibility Travel and tourism is one of the worlds largest We are working to create an engaging, healthy work industries with significant economic, social and environment for people in which dialogue and diversity environmental impacts.
As a large international group are valued and to ensuring equality of opportunity and working within the industry, we understand that our fairness in all areas of employment.
We are proud to customers, investors, employees and suppliers actively have a diverse business and we have always valued the choose their relationships with us and that this choice in benefits that diversity brings.
part depends on the degree to which we demonstrate The Group has adopted a formal human rights corporate social responsibility CSR.
policy which supports our commitment to International We thus recognise that delivering good long-term Labour Organisation standards and the UN Global returns to shareholders requires us to demonstrate Compact on human rights and labour and to commitment to CSR.
To this end, the Board has providing equal opportunities in employment adopted and reviews regularly a number of policies, without discrimination.
collectively referred to as Responsible Hospitality.
The If our people develop health problems, we aim to Board further recognises the need to communicate to support them so as to promote a swift return to work stakeholders its progress on executing these policies.
We aim to rehabilitate any staff member who has suffered a problem or disability that Our people interferes with their ability to work.
Where someone Our business is to provide world class standards of cannot be accommodated, we are committed to hospitality.
To achieve that requires knowledgeable, arranging a sensitively-managed departure.
well-trained and skilled employees who are wellFor the year to 31 December 2012 we employed an motivated and appropriately rewarded.
average of 10,157 people, worldwide in 20 countries We aim to ensure that all of our people have the right 2011: 10,912. skills and knowledge to do their jobs.
We encourage them to gain industry-relevant qualifications where Function number of employees appropriate and to gain additional qualifications in Hotel Operations support of career development.
There is an increasing 2012 7,836 focus on the development of talent across the Group 2011 8,565 and the need to attract and retain the best people to Management Administration support future growth.
In June 2012, to further facilitate 2012 1,280 this aim, we introduced the Outstanding Service 2011 1,365 Experience OSE programme across the Group, Sales and Marketing whereby front-line employees undergo training on 2012 434 how to deliver outstanding service to our guests.
2011 398 Repairs and Maintenance In addition to formal training programmes, we engage 2012 607 and empower our employees through a variety of means, including internal newsletters, our intranet 2011 584 and regular communication sessions.
Conferences, workshops, social and community-related events such Gender % as staff sports sessions and outings are organised to Male facilitate team building and to encourage better 2012 55.48 communication across the business.
2011 53.35 Female We maintain a code of high ethical standards, to which 2012 44.52 all employees are required to adhere.
We have zero- 2011 46.65 tolerance to anti-competitive practices, bribery, fraud and other forms of corruption.
Our whistle blowing helpline ensures that any occurrence of such activity can be identified and dealt with appropriately and swiftly.
29 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate social responsibility continued Our people continued Our environment We seek to reduce the negative environmental impacts Age % of our activities by adopting  Below 30 business practices.
Our Responsible Hospitality policies 2012 30.60 aim to ensure operational compliance with all relevant 2011 32.77 environmental legislation in all of those countries where 30-50 we operate.
The European regions comprehensive 2012 47.07 environmental management system which achieved 2011 45.88 formal accreditation to the ISO 14001 standard is Above 50 currently being rolled out to our remaining UK hotels.
2012 22.33 Our UK business successfully retained the Carbon Trust 2011 21.35 Standard for its efforts on tackling climate change through measuring, managing and reducing carbon A healthy workplace emissions.
All of our Singapore hotels have attained or Health and safety for our customers, colleagues and are pursuing Green Mark certification, an initiative suppliers visiting our premises is of paramount established by the Building Authority of Singapore to importance to us and we strive to ensure that encourage environmentally friendly buildings.
comprehensive processes and procedures are in place The Group continues to monitor the carbon footprint for at all of our properties to ensure compliance with all of its owned and managed properties.
Effective health and safety measurement of our carbon emissions is produced practices are encouraged through detailed policies and annually and we are working actively to reduce our procedures, training, supervision and regular energy consumption, refrigerant leakage and associated communication.
Related performance and actions for carbon emissions through internal reduction improvement are reported quarterly to the Board by the measurements and targets.
Other areas we aim to focus Chief Executive Officer.
on include minimising our water consumption and waste.
A comprehensive schedule of audits, inspections and Details of our total carbon footprint are summarised below.
drills is carried out both internally and by independent 1 bodies to check awareness, compliance and readiness to LFL 2 2 Year 2012 2011 2010 - deal with emergencies.
Effective health and safety practices are encouraged through training, supervision Global carbon footprint tonnes CO 276,972 293,344 301,518 -8.1% 2 and appropriate equipment.
Our teams are constantly Emissions per room working to improve safety performance.
For example in tonnes CO 12.4 13.1 13.5 -8.1% 2 the UK, since 2008, the number of reported accidents has fallen by 39%, whilst Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Total 2 2 Year 2012 2011 2010 - Dangerous Occurrences RIDDORs has fallen by 50%.
Global carbon footprint The UK region has published and launched new policies tonnes CO 322,830 308,142 317,595 1.6% 2 and procedures accredited to the British Standards Emissions per room Institute for its Occupational Health and Safety tonnes CO 12.4 12.9 12.9 -3.9% 2 Management System, compliant with OHSAS 18001.
1 Like-for-like comparisons are provided to reflect movements in the Groups hotel portfolio.
European management is currently in the process of 2 2011 and 2010 reported numbers have been adjusted to reflect changes in rolling out the system across the remaining UK hotels.
carbon factors during the year.
Completion of this project, which is designed to ensure On a like-for-like basis our total carbon emissions have robust and comprehensive risk assessment and reduced by 8.1% over the period.
For our whole estate, recognition across the business, is anticipated to be July emissions per room have decreased by 3.9% despite 2013.
These efforts have been supported by new the majority of our new properties being in climates software and management systems, specific to health where comfort cooling is required for a large proportion and safety, resulting in tighter control of statutory of the year resulting in the requirements of both energy mandatory inspections and audit trails.
30 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance Corporate social responsibility Governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Our environment continued fish and seafood supplier is a member of the Marine Stewardship Council, the Coastal Fish Campaign and the In 2010, we committed to reducing the Groups energy Project Inshore Partnership, all of which promote consumption by 10% over the two-year period ending sustainable fishing through a range of initiatives.
Each of the regions was tasked to implement good energy conservation practices achieved Our community through: a combination of more energy efficient equipment: best practice ideas tailored to particular Throughout the world, the Groups hotels are encouraged departments: changes to operating procedures and to provide support for their local communities in a variety maintenance programmes: and employee engagement of ways, from regular blood donation drives at many of and effective employee training.
our hotels to helping the homeless with food and Because of the energy efficiency measures we have clothing collections or providing disadvantaged young taken across the Group since 2010, we achieved an people with education or work experience.
Our overall reduction in our energy consumption on a like-foremployees prove themselves each year to be warmlike basis, of up to 6.03% in 2012.
In summary, it shows hearted and generous supporters of such initiatives.
an encouraging result achieved by implementing the For example, our three hotels in New York joined local various energy conservation initiatives despite the target charities to provide aid for people affected by Hurricane of 10% not being met in 2012.
Moving forward, we will Sandy in December 2012.
Millennium Broadway Hotel continue to develop and implement initiatives that help New York and ONE UN New York collected coats and us to manage and reduce our environmental impact.
other winter clothing, whilst Millenium Hilton joined local charities to help residents of Staten Island.
The hotels Reducing our waste staff and guests also collected toys for local children.
We have been working proactively to reduce, re-use and In the UK, we raised approximately 21,000 for the recycle materials wherever possible.
Since the introduction British Heart Foundation via cash donations from staff of segregating food and paper waste from the kitchens and and guests and donations of physical items such as restaurants at our largest London hotel, 125 tonnes of waste clothes, books and furniture.
was converted into compost rather than sent to landfill.
We also benefit our local communities by providing In many of our hotels we are switching from proprietary support for educational programmes and initiatives.
branded water to in-house filtered water systems, which Our Copthorne Hotel Slough-Windsor, for example, reduces glass wastage circa 600,000 bottles over three welcomed 20 GCSE hospitality and catering students years in the UK and eliminates the carbon footprint from Westgate School, offering them the opportunity to impact of bottle delivery.
Collection of cooking oil in the watch experienced chefs and gain hands-on-experience UK is now consolidated through Convert 2 Green in in the kitchens.
The Copthorne Hotel Hannover in partnership with our logistics provider.
The waste Germany opens its kitchens six times a year for product is then converted to bio-fuel.
disadvantaged children to learn how to cook, whilst in Some of our recycling activities can also support charities.
South Korea, the Millennium Seoul Hilton partners with For example, the Millennium Hotel Minneapolis has middle schools, high schools and colleges to give young collected over 1,000 lbs of used guest soap for re-use in people with single parents or no parents the opportunity African countries through the Global Soap Project.
to experience what it is like to work in a hotel.
We will continue to enhance our waste management At Group level we donated 16,485 during 2012 2011: programme by reducing waste generation and 35,000 to a range of charitable organisations.
increasing recycling efforts wherever possible.
Much of this activity focuses on building staff awareness as Looking forward well as investing in more efficient plant and equipment.
We will continue to commit time and resources to refine Staff awareness has also been raised through quarterly operating practices and improve Group performance environmental newsletters.
We consider that this will Our procurement teams continue to work on enhance our reputation amongst all of our stakeholders sustainability initiatives within the supply chain.
Our and support our aim to add value for our shareholders.
focus includes reducing food miles, and using suppliers with a demonstrable commitment to sustainable production methods.
In the UK, for example, our main 31 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
