Corporate social responsibility 2012 highlights Healthy eating Harvester wins top award at the Healthy Food Guides Healthy Eating Awards Healthy eating Mitchells & Butlers signs up to Department of Health salt pledges A comprehensive overview of our corporate social responsibility activities can be found online Our employees Retail employee engagement increases by 5 percentage points To find out more go to: www.
com responsibility Community Mitchells & Butlers corporate and brand charity donations total over 120,000 Environment Mitchells & Butlers is re-accredited with the Carbon Trust Standard and wins two awards for energy innovation When it comes to eating and drinking-out, were Food sourcing Our employees are extensively trained in the one of the leading companies in the UK.
Our Mitchells & Butlers spends over 300m a safe storage, handling and preparation of food brands are highly visible, so being at the forefront year buying food.
We insist that our suppliers as well as good kitchen hygiene of good corporate practice is vital to our business.
have clearly-defined policies that set out their Maintaining high corporate social responsibility environmental and business sustainability values is something we take very seriously.
responsibilities, with the like-minded aim of seeking continuous improvement.
Good food Our commitment to providing our guests We have a strategy to shorten our supply with the best value for money food we can chain where possible, to get closer to primary is embedded within the Company from the producers, farms and growers.
We buy in senior management responsible for sourcing excess of 31,000 tonnes of fresh UK vegetables and buying our food through to the chef each year and we continue to develop strategic responsible for preparing and cooking it relationships with growers, which will maximise to perfection.
seasonality, and deliver fresh and tasty fruit and vegetables to our guests.
We will always Whats in our food?
endeavour to buy British where possible but We provide our guests with as much as important are commercial value for money information as we can about what is in and a long term security of supply.
our food via our websites, our menus and, increasingly, via smart phone apps.
Details Food safety practices of the full nutritional value of each dish are Our employees are extensively trained in the already available on our Harvester, Toby safe storage, handling and preparation of food Carvery and Crown Carveries websites.
as well as good kitchen hygiene.
We carry out regular independent food safety and hygiene Allergens audits across all our restaurants and pubs every This year, our chefs have undergone specific year and the results of these audits comprise a training on managing the potential risks of direct element of our teams performance pay cross-contamination of allergens in the kitchens, and reward.
led by our Food Development Managers and our Kitchen Training Managers.
This summer, Young guests an e-learning module was launched with We welcome families into many of our an all-encompassing training toolkit on restaurants and pubs and recognise we food allergens.
need to cater for our young guests particular requirements, providing them with a range of Action on salt reduction dishes that they will love to eat and that their This year, we signed up to two of the parents trust.
Our family-friendly brands such existing salt pledges for caterers, as part of as Harvester and Sizzling Pubs offer specific the Department of Healths Public Health and menus for children, while Toby Carvery and Responsibility Deal.
This means that, over time, Crown Carveries offer a small carvery just we have committed to helping our guests for kids.
reduce their dietary salt intake by reducing the amount of salt we use in our kitchens and to More information is available at working with our suppliers to reduce the salt www.
com responsibility goodfood in the products we buy, targeting first those products where salt levels are highest.
08 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Healthy eating Harvester recently won a top award at the Healthy Food Guides Healthy Eating Awards, scooping the top prize in the Budget eating category, with its salad cart offer and calorie information on menus both commended.
The brand also leads the way in providing calorie information to its guests, being the first UK-wide restaurant brand to provide this information on its menus in March 2011.
com responsibility goodfood Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 09 Corporate social responsibility continued Our front of house employees receive a comprehensive programme of training.
This includes education on the legal requirements of their role, including their responsibility not to serve under 18s and those who are intoxicated 2.
Serving alcohol responsibly Investment in training Mitchells & Butlers is committed to operating Each front of house employee receives a 562,919 all of its licensed premises responsibly, comprehensive programme of training.
This The number of people who were refused service safely and within the law and to work closely includes education on the legal requirements in 2012 because they could not provide valid proof and constructively with the authorities.
of their role, including their responsibility not to of age when challenged by our employees The Company does not operate any serve under 18s and those who are intoxicated.
Our employees must also complete licensing refresher training twice a year.
We are closely engaged with the Governments 238,673 Public Health Responsibility Deal and have Last year, 1,858 employees completed the The number of people our employees refused to signed up to five alcohol pledges, including British Institute of Innkeeping BII Award serve in 2012 because they were suspected of providing clear unit labelling on our drinks for Personal Licence Holders or the Scottish being intoxicated menus, supporting alcohol awareness Certificate for Personal Licence Holders, which campaigns and taking part in the are the recognised national qualifications in the Challenge 21 scheme.
Prevention of underage drinking Unit awareness We operate a Challenge 21 policy within all We are working with Drinkaware to our businesses in England and Wales.
If a guest help increase guest understanding of unit appears to be under 21 then we require proof information in our restaurants and pubs.
that they are over 18 before alcohol will be sold.
Currently, 1,400 of our restaurants and pubs In addition, to reflect the changes in Scottish have unit information printed on drinks menus.
law, we now have our Challenge 25 programme Mitchells & Butlers is an active member and in place across our Scottish businesses.
funder of the Drinkaware charity and supports their various unit awareness campaigns.
As part In 2012, our employees refused to serve of our comprehensive training programme our Mitchells & Butlers is an active member and 562,919 people who could not provide employees have access to unit information for funder of the Drinkaware charity and supports their various unit awareness campaigns valid proof of age when challenged.
our most popular products so they are able to pass on information to guests if asked.
Community actions to tackle alcohol harms We strongly support local Pubwatch schemes and crime prevention initiatives and it is 1,400 of our restaurants and pubs have unit Company policy for all general managers to join information printed on drinks menus and support a local Pubwatch scheme.
We also actively support our general managers in participating in local Best Bar None schemes.
10 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our annual Business Forum encourages the exchange of information, views and ideas between employees and senior managers 3.
Our employees Ideas exchange As one of Britains biggest retail employers it Our annual Business Forum encourages the 32,811 is critical that we listen to our employees and exchange of information, views and ideas The number of employees who completed provide opportunities for them to ask questions, between employees and senior managers.
our annual engagement survey in 2012 suggest ideas and offer opinions.
There are a Questions can be submitted to our Forum Reps number of ways we achieve this: by any employee and are typically about pay, benefits, learning and development.
Detailed We have a dedicated website Employee engagement coverage of the Forum and the answers to www.
co. uk where our employees can In July we asked all of our employees to questions are published online on our access important information about their job role complete an online survey to tell us how employee website.
they were feeling about their job.
In the retail estate, response rates and engagement scores Additionally, we facilitated a number of increased on last years results.
We were employee discussion groups hosted by delighted that scores for our retail employee senior managers.
and general manager groups beat benchmark data in terms of both job satisfaction and Learning and development commitment to the Company.
Additionally, to This year saw the opening of a state of the understand how our retail support team were art in-house Training Academy located at our feeling about their jobs, we launched a pulse Retail Support Centre in Birmingham.
The survey in May and followed this up with a Academy will be used by our 40,000 central number of focus groups to better understand support and retail employees for inductions, the results.
The findings from these focus conferences, briefings and learning and groups were presented to senior managers development programmes.
and, via a workshop, a number of actions Browns restaurants invested 150,000 in launching an apprenticeship scheme were identified which are now included in Recently, Browns restaurants invested 150,000 the HR strategy.
in launching an apprenticeship scheme in a bid to help address a staff shortage across the sector Online resources as a whole and better develop our employees We have a dedicated website www.
More information on this can be co. uk where our employees can access found at mbplc.
com newsandmedia important information about their job role, such as pay, benefits and grievance procedures, Confidential hotline training and careers, from their phones, tablets If any of our employees have any concerns about or PCs.
Employees can also email their anyone in the business misusing their position or questions to us via this website.
conducting activity at work which is dishonest, illegal or endangering our people, guests or the environment, they can tell us about it by calling our confidential hotline number.
More information can be found at www.
com responsibility ouremployees Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 11 Corporate social responsibility continued To mark Armed Forces Day in June, Crown Carveries offered a free carvery meal or breakfast to Service people, past and present, for the fourth year running 4.
Working with local communities Our brands at the heart of our Mitchells & Butlers operates a number of communities 120,000 charitable donations schemes to actively According to official figures, 22% of all nurses in The total value of corporate and brand charity encourage our employees to get involved the UK missed out on precious time spent with donations in 2012 with national and local charities as well as friends and families to look after those in need.
worthy local causes within their immediate In January 2012, Crown Carveries launched a communities.
public campaign to reward the dedication and expertise of these unsung heroes.
Nearly 7,000 40,650 The Good Cause fund nursing staff took the brand up on its offer of a The value of corporate donations awarded The Good Cause fund was set up in 2012. free meal.
to numerous charities and good causes via Our retail employees can apply for a donation fundraising carried out by our employees towards a community or charity event they To mark Armed Forces Day in June, Crown and pubs in 2012 are taking part in.
Last year, Mitchells & Butlers Carveries offered a free carvery meal or donated 15,650 to worthy causes such as breakfast to Service people, past and present, Ciarans Cause, a charity supported by the Toby for the fourth year running.
This year, Crown Carvery in Warrington whose aim is to provide Carveries donated 6,700 carvery meals and 45,000 defibrillators in all 69 local primary schools.
300 breakfasts in the week leading up to Raised by ONeills in March 2012 for Cash Armed Forces Day.
for Kids Employee donations programme Any employee can apply for a charitable Harvester donated 25 pence from every donation from Mitchells & Butlers to go towards special Chocolate Star Ice Cream Sundae a personal charity event they are taking part in sold to Make-A-Wish Foundation UK.
Last year, we donated 25,000 to brand donated a total of 38,268.
Harvester Donated to Make-A-Wish when Harvester a wide range of charities including MS Society, restaurants have raised more than 200,000 donated 25 pence for every Chocolate Star Ice CLIC Sargent and the British Heart Foundation.
for the charity, which is the organisations Cream Sundae sold chosen charity, over the last five years.
Princes Trust We are two years into a three year programme As part of its St Patricks Day celebrations, We are two years into a three year programme supporting the Princes Trust.
This year, supporting the Princes Trust.
This year, ONeills Irish-jigged its way from Aberdeen Mitchells & Butlers donated 15,000 to the Mitchells & Butlers donated 15,000 to the to Bournemouth and all the pubs in between Princes Trust Princes Trust.
Earlier this summer we put and raised over 45,000 for Cash for Kids.
together a team of eight employees to participate in Million Makers a fundraising Our restaurants and pubs up and down the initiative where teams compete to raise as country also supported the Poppy Appeal in much money as possible, by January 2013.
November 2011 and Marie Curies Great Daffodil Appeal in March 2012.
Supporting England and Great Britain Hockey More information is available at We are also two years into a three year www.
com responsibility communities sponsorship deal worth 90,000 as an official partner of England and Great Britain Hockey, with Harvester having become their official restaurant partner.
12 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Mitchells & Butlers won two awards this year in recognition of our innovation in energy reduction 5.
The environment Waste not, want not The reduction of our consumption of energy We have made a great deal of progress in 8% is now a fundamental part of our everyday the last few years in collecting and recycling Our year on year carbon emission reduction business.
waste, turning it into something that is useful.
relative to the number of meals we serve each year Recycling or converting our waste into a source We are proud to be one of the few businesses of renewable energy is helping hugely to reduce to achieve re-certification of the Carbon Trust the environmental impact of our businesses.
Standard by delivering an 8% year on year 82% of our total waste card, plastic, glass and 120 carbon emission reduction relative to the food, for example was diverted from landfill last The number of Energy Champions that work number of meals we serve each year year.
In carbon emissions terms, this volume of in our restaurants and pubs some 130 million.
recycling is the equivalent of taking 4,040 cars off the road.
Of particular note is the success of our installation of LED lighting.
This is helping us to Water management 4,040 make considerable savings in our electricity bills We are working with manufacturers to reduce In carbon emissions terms, the total amount of and by the end of 2013 we anticipate that all the the amount of water we use.
Devices such as waste we recycled last year is the equivalent of Front of House lighting in all our businesses will self-closing taps and Hippo bags in our toilets taking 4,040 cars off the road be LED.
are also being installed where we undertake any refurbishment projects.
Our trials of collecting Mitchells & Butlers won two awards this water consumption data every half an hour, We are proud to be one of the few businesses year in recognition of our innovation in to achieve re-certification of the Carbon though at a very early stage, are showing some energy reduction, at the Refrigeration and Air Trust Standard promising results and we will be increasing the Conditioning RAC Cooling Industry Awards number of sites included in our trials through 2012: the Environmental Collaboration of the this year.
Year award, for developing a free air cellar cooling system along with its partners Climate More information can be found at Centre and GEA Searle, and the End User of the www.
The judges recognised  Mitchells & Butlers as an end user who is willing to push the boundaries with new technology and techniques.
Energy Champions Network The Energy Champions Network is one of a number of initiatives that our in-house energy team is pursuing to drive energy reduction across the Company.
We have Energy Champions in every one of our districts who help drive the reductions at the frontline.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 13
