Underpinning our group strategic driver: Operational efficiency Sustainability objective: Operating our contracts smarter Sustainability objective: Nurturing our peoples talents Underpinning our group strategic driver: People MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sustainability overview Committed to addressing the key issues Weve always believed that a Everyone expects more of companies now higher standards of moresustainable business is a better business ethics, more attention to social issues like fairness in the business, and we have plenty to workforce, and real evidence of a commitment to tackling climate showfor that in terms of what weve achieved.
Weve helped bring about change.
This is a challenge, theres no doubt about that, but its one big improvements in the sustainability that MITIE is more than ready to meet.
standards of our supply chain, reachedsome of our environmental Underpinning our group strategic driver: impact targets one year early, Clients initiatedgenuinely valuable and multiaward-winning community projects, and weve developed Sustainability objective: thesingle biggest competitive Looking after our advantagewe have our own clients properly people by creating some of the besttraining programmes youll nd anywhere in our industry.
Our O O O Ou ur r Last year, we re-aligned our in i int te egr grate ated d d sustainability strategy behind six keyareas, directly aligned with our sus s susta tainabili inabilit ty y y corporate strategy drivers: because appr approach oach everything we do to make MITIE a moresuccessful business should also help make it a more sustainable one Sustainability objective: and vice versa.
Doing more for our clients with less, wherever they are in the world Underpinning our group strategic driver: New markets FM Skills Centre The Skills Centres provide students with the opportunity to combine class-based learning with practical work experience, whilst working towards a vocational qualication in Facilities Services.
At the Leeds Co-operative Academy, a multi-service MITIE support team has been in place since September 2011 to support and mentor students to reach their potential and enhance their employability.
25 #25 39 Underpinning our group strategic driver: Risk Sustainability objective: Enabling our people to work safe, and go home safe Sustainability objective: Using fewer natural resources Underpinning our group strategic driver: Responsibility Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sustainability overview Looking after our Operating our Using fewer 1 2 3 clientsproperly contractssmarter naturalresources Make sure we have the right Make sure all our people, and as Make sure our people understand processesand systems in place to manyof the suppliers we work with as MITIEs environmental impact in nurture relationships with clients possible, understand the commercial termsof natural resource use and andadd the most value possible.
impact of operating as efficiently as howimportant the reduction of possible so that we can maximise thisisboth from our own internal value for all stakeholders.
perspective and from that of external stakeholders, as well as the role they can play in improving it.
What weve focused on What weve focused on What weve focused on Satisfaction surveys Employee participation Transport optimisation Regular key client surveys to measure our Raise awareness on fuel consumption across Reduce average fuel consumption by 10% performance and our Net Promoter score, the organisation to help achieve 10% fuel by2013.
recording responses into our CRM system reduction by 2013.
Increase management Utility management formaximum knowledge sharing.
awareness of, and participation in, sustainable Reduce our office energy consumption by practices via e-learning programmes and Industry trend surveys 15%by 2013. interactive workshops.
Strategic client surveys to monitor key Waste management industrytrends.
Supply chain management Reach 80% recycling rate across our office Audit 40 major suppliers a year requiring Enriching partnerships estate by 2013.
100%to meet or exceed our sustainability Extend both our own and our clients audittargets within 12 months.
community footprints via the Real Apprentice What we achieved and our FM and Construction Skills Centres.
What we achieved 130g CO2 km What we achieved Our average car eet emission is 130g CO2 km, 13% down from 140g CO2 km.
Weve achieved 13% fuel reduction through 9.3% proactive eet management and targeted Our Net Promoter score is 9.3% and communication campaigns, which means 72% weveupdated our CRM system with the weve achieved our 2013 target one year early.
Weve increased our tracking ability to72% surveyresults.
8% 100% 8% of our employee population has 100% of the clients surveyed told us cost 16% participated in courses and e-learning Weve achieved 16% reduction in office energy certainty and service quality were top of onsustainability topics.
consumption, which means weve reached theiragenda.
our 2013 target one year early.
55 4 What weve noticed We audited 55 suppliers across the group and, We ran four Real Apprentice programmes working with Trucost, analysed 90% of our Were really proud to have hit two out of andopened the Co-operative Academy spend to identify hot spots in carbon emissions.
threetargets a full year ahead of our deadline.
But we still need to carry on challenging ourways of doing things especially What weve noticed What weve noticed engagingour people to raise awareness General awareness of our sustainability Were building longer term relationships ofhow everyone can make a difference.
capabilities is relatively high throughout withmost of our clients by helping them theorganisation, but participation could extend their reach in the community beimproved.
While all our efforts so far have andmaking sure we listen to them when produced great results, we know that the itcomes totheir priorities.
nextpart will be the toughest and we will But our Net Promoter score shows theres still lookto concentrate on changing peoples work to be done.
behaviours and mind sets to improve long-termperformance.
2010 restated % change Resource Units baseline 2011 2012 against baseline Scope 1 Gas and eet transportfuel Tonnes of CO2e 42,779 44,093 43,310 1.2% Electricity Tonnes of CO2e3,8703,587 3,765 -3% Scope 2 Intensity Tonnes of CO2e employee 0.87 0.81 0.75 -14% Scope 1 and 2 Intensity Tonnes m 27.12 25.21 23.50 -13% Scope 3 Energy and business car travel Tonnes of CO2e 13,399 12,807 12,991 -3% Upstream Water Tonnes of CO2e99 11 22% Created waste Tonnes 1,436 994 1,336 -7% Intensity Kg employee 27 17 21 -22% General waste Tonnes 989 606 859 -13% Recycled waste Tonnes 447 388 477 7% % Recycled 31% 39% 36% 16% 40 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Doing more for our Nurturing our Enabling our people 4 5 6 clientswithless, wherever peoplestalents towork safe, andgo Make sure we have the right talent they are inthe world homesafe pipeline to full all the business Make sure all our businesses Make sure the well-being of our futureneeds.
understand our high sustainability people, and by extension our clients, standards including the use of issafeguarded while at work so they innovative low carbon technologies can all go home safe at the end of so our clients can benefit from them.
What weve focused on What weve focused on What weve focused on Client awareness Performance management Performance management Measure in what percentage of our markets Setting clear behavioural expectations Provide improved Management Information around the world we are recognised as viaanupdated performance through a new incident management platform agreen brand.
to enable more effective measurement of a better range ofhealth and safety-related KPIs.
Employee awareness Leadership programme Increase employee understanding of the Understand what the vital steps are for Leadership groups sustainability capabilities via internal leadership and management development, Launch the third phase of our health marketing and communications, measuring dening what support is required at each level.
andsafety risk management leadership extent of comprehension via employee surveys programme to embed the correct leadership Engagement to set a baseline for 2012. attributes within our management.
Create a year-round people engagement plan that will establish a core set of Engagement What we achieved measurespan-MITIE, against which future Launch the third phase of our Work Safe progress will be tracked.
campaign to deliver improved employee engagement.
63% What we achieved 63% of our clients saw us as a green brand.
What we achieved 1 56% One new performance review process 1 56% of our employees have a good designedwith one very simple and clear goal: One new platform we now use Airsweb to understanding of MITIEs sustainability strategy.
a great review is all about the discussion.
report all accidents, incidents and near misses.
93% 100% achieved 78 We achieved Gold status in the BiTC CR Index Having carried out extensive research to We held eight leadership workshops with and scored 93%.
ndout what people at MITIE thought of our atotal of 78 participants.
leadership style today and how it could be What weve noticed improved, weve achieved our target when 4 itcomes to leadership.
Externally, we need to enhance our We introduced four new focus areas communications around our service electrical work, working at height, driving offeringtohelp clients in their sustainability andslips and trips.
Internally, we need to encourage Our overall engagement score is 3.8 5. more participation in sustainable practices andclearly communicate what we can What weve noticed offerclients.
What weve noticed Were pretty proud of our health and safety This year was about setting baselines and culture over the last year weve improved putting new processes in place.
We now need incident rates, employee awareness and to measure progress and extend the reach engagement, as well as health and safety ofour leadership programme and succession leadership: but we realise there is no place planning to incorporate early career talent.
forcomplacency and so we want to continue Wewill also be acting on the results of our our year on year improvement.
Going forward engagement survey, and reporting on were keen to keep up the good work and improvements regularly throughout the year.
make our new systems work harder for us.
Y Yo ou ca u can re n rea ad d m mo ore a re ab bo ou ut w t wh ha at t we w re d doi oin ng g i in n a all ll o of f t th he es se a e ar re ea as a s an nd s d se ee e our llat ate es st t p pe er rf fo or rmanc mance d e da at ta a a at t: : mi mit ti ie.
com e. com sus sust tainabili ainabilit ty y20 2012 1 GHG Emissions data for 1April2011 to 31 March 2012 inline with financial accountingperiod.
2010 data has been restated inline with improved management information and to include a full year of extrapolated Dalkia FM and EPS acquisition data to enable year on year comparison.
41 Accounts Governance Business review Overview
