DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Sustainable development review At Mondi, we aim to deliver exceptional value to our customers by developing products for their success through the transformation of responsibly-sourced raw materials into innovative product solutions solutions that meet our customers needs in a responsible, cost-effective and sustainable way.
Mondi recognises the need to integrate sound principles governing safety, business conduct, social, environmental and economic activities into business practices and decision-making.
We comply with the regulations, legislation and permitting requirements of all countries and regions in which we operate.
SSFIR SD A full list of our five year sustainability Sustainable development is integral to the success of our business.
Our sustainability commitments and our Group performance commitments have been considered in light of our risk management process, our material against key performance indicators can be issues and broad stakeholder engagement.
In 2011, we developed and revised our found at www.
com sd12 five year sustainability commitments.
These commitments have helped organise, direct, monitor and improve our sustainable development efforts throughout 2012.
Our performance shows the progress we have made in achieving our sustainability Identifying and managing risks is fundamental to every aspect of our business.
Our commitments to date Group-wide risk management framework helps us identify risks on at least an annual SSFIR See our risk management and inter SD final basis, and ensure that mitigation plans are in place for risks with a high likelihood of control section on pages 57 61 occurrence and or potential impact.
We publish our sustainable development report in an online format in line with the reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI to a B level.
This report provides a detailed account of the governance of sustainability within the business, and our targets, strategy and performance in respect of environmental, social and economic contexts.
The following discussion provides a summary of the key issues identified in our Sustainable development report 2012.
Engaging with our stakeholders Key to our approach to sustainability is stakeholder engagement at a local, regional and global level.
We recognise that there is a broad range of stakeholders who have a genuine stake in or are affected by our Group and its activities.
There are also those stakeholders whose activities have an impact on our operations and interests, and other stakeholders where co-operation leads to mutual benefit.
Merebank, South Africa Neighbouring school supported by Mondi in the Merebank, Durban area Mondi Group 31 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 31 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Sustainable development review continued Our most important stakeholders include: SSFIR SD To view our stakeholder engagement Stakeholder group Relevant areas matrix, including our engagement process Shareholders and the investor community Return on capital invested and key topics and concerns during 2012 Legality go to www.
com sd12 Sustainability Resource efficiency Reputation Customers Value-for-money products Clean production Responsible forestry Certified products Reputation Employees Job security and wages Safety and health Skills and career development Communities surrounding our operations Livelihoods Local infrastructure Social agreements to minimise any negative impacts Local taxes Governments Regulatory compliance Taxes Community engagement and development Non-governmental organisations NGOs Nature conservation People Resource efficiency Responsible forestry Business impacts Natural capital Our broad engagement at all levels enables the timely identification of new stakeholders.
We engage actively with our stakeholders in dialogues, partnerships and forums.
These inform our responses and actions.
Our formal and fully transparent SEAT SocioEconomic Assessment Toolbox process and community engagement plans CEPs demonstrate the level of our engagement at socially material operations.
We use FSC to The WBCSDs coalition of companies coprovide a global standard for monitoring of stakeholder engagement in our forests.
operate through action teams on the most We encourage the contributions made by NGOs in identifying matters of concern, and urgent global sustainability issues facing their engagement with environmental and social projects.
We support associations, business such as climate change, water, advocacy groups and institutions that bring together and represent stakeholder groups at poverty, ecosystems and forests.
WBCSD a global, regional and local level.
Mondi is a supporter of The Forests Dialogue, a global is the acknowledged voice for business on multi-stakeholder forum committed to the conservation and sustainable use of forests global sustainability issues and maintains a and improved livelihoods, and participates on the Steering Committee and in numerous number of key partnerships with international dialogues.
We support and actively participate in the World Business Council for governmental organisations IGOs, NGOs and Sustainable Development WBCSD, a coalition of some 200 companies throughout the governments.
org for world with a shared commitment to sustainable development.
32 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 32 2013 03 04 2:59 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance SSF IR The WBCSD pro SD vides a vision for how Guiding sustainability the world could look in 2050.
A more detailed discussion of this can be found on page 13.
The Boards and executive team guide our overall strategy and chart our performance.
They ensure that we set the highest standards for corporate governance, based on the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability.
Accountability for our sustainable development targets, strategy and performance is delegated to the DLC sustainable development committee.
This committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups sustainable development strategy, policies and commitments are aligned with global best practice.
It also oversees performance in respect of safety, health, environment, forestry, product stewardship and community matters across the Group.
The DLC executive committee, chaired by chief executive, David Hathorn, has executive responsibility for our overall Group strategy and operating performance, including our sustainability performance.
He is supported by line management, the sustainable development function and specialist network groups.
Six global specialist network groups have been established to determine and guide best practice and share knowledge.
These are safety and health, environment, energy, black liquor recovery boiler, product stewardship, and fire safety networks.
Each network group comprises specialists from across the world, who provide experience, expertise and knowledge to Mondi.
SSFIR SD Our Sustainable Development Management System SDMS governs our approach to For the scope and boundary of our sustainable development reporting go to sustainability and the implementation of our sector policies.
All facilities and activities www.
com sd12 that we own and operate including those in which we hold a controlling interest, new developments, mergers, acquisitions and businesses that we plan to invest in, as well as activities undertaken by contractors on Mondi sites or while under our management, are incorporated into our SDMS and are required to comply with our policies, requirements and practices.
The acquisition of Nordenia in 2012 was subject to an appropriate level of sustainability due diligence.
In accordance with our policies, these operations will be aligned with Mondis standards and requirements within a period of two years, by 2014.
SSFIR The corpor SD ate governance section Business ethics and integrity is important to Mondi.
Management, employees and our provides further detail about Speakout business partners are guided by our code of business ethics, which is supported by on page 79 our business integrity policy.
All Mondi employees, contractors and external parties are provided the opportunity to raise genuine concerns about behaviour or activities that they believe may conflict with our business ethics or values through our confidential reporting hotline, Speakout.
This is a key tool in detecting and reporting fraud and corrupt practices.
In 2012 we received and addressed 65 Speakout messages worldwide 2011:46.
Internal and external assurance The Mondi internal audit function is an integral part of Mondis corporate governance.
Mondis internal audit function ensures that management at an appropriate level is informed about reported issues and that reported risks are adequately managed.
Summaries of all reported issues, and the status of all unresolved items, are presented to the Mondi Boards and the DLC audit committee.
Ultimately the assurance provided by the internal audit function serves to assist the Boards in fulfilling their disclosure obligations, Mondi Group 33 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 33 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Sustainable development review continued under the governance codes of South Africa and the UK, and to report annually to shareholders on the effectiveness of Mondis systems of internal control.
Internal audit continues to increase its role in sustainability performance monitoring and SSFIR SD For a more detailed account of our governance systems, processes assumes regular evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of our systems of internal and performance go to control, across all business sites and all business processes.
com sd12 reported potential breaches of human rights, corruption and anti-competitive behaviour.
Internal audits are conducted at all major operations every year, and at all remaining Mondi operations at least once every five years.
We have a permanent internal audit presence at our most significant sites.
We believe that external assurance is an important part of the way we work, and that this SSFIR Deloitte SD s independent auditors reports can be found on pages 99 101 provides stakeholders with a level of comfort in respect of our performance.
ERM CVS has provided assurance on certain KPIs reported and on our compliance with GRI.
See the full assurance statement at www.
Our appointed statutory auditors, Deloitte, provide written assurance over our financial report.
We are pleased to have been included in CDPs FTSE 350 CDLI in the materials sector for the third consecutive year, as well as the FTSE4Good Global, European and UK Index Series and the JSE SRI Index.
In 2012, Mondi was once again an advanced level reporter under the UNGC.
Mondi has also been listed in CDPs FTSE 350 CPLI for the first time in 2012: a recognition for good strategy, management and performance.
Mondi was also the sector leader in the Forest Footprint Disclosure in 2012.
We have adopted and implemented the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards for our mills, and continue to make progress with implementing OHSAS 18001 standards at our converting operations.
Our food contact packaging operations achieved good progress in certification to recognised food hygiene standards.
Our 2012 sustainable development material issues Our sustainability is reliant on us managing our business to minimise the potential adverse impact on these inter-dependent economic, ecological and social systems, to enhance our positive contribution to these systems in order for them to function in a healthy and stable way, and to identify and seek opportunities that they present.
In compiling our sustainable development report, we embarked on a formal process to identify those issues that are material to the Group and to our stakeholders.
We have considered the issues that we regard as material to our business: our sustainable development in a challenging macroeconomic environment: our sustainable development in a resource and ecologically constrained environment: and our sustainable socioeconomic development in our diverse working and social environments.
Our sustainable development in a challenging macroeconomic environment Our strategy supports the profitable development of innovative, sustainable and SSFIR Our 2012 financial and oper SD ational competitive products that meet customer demands and societys needs in response to performance is discussed in detail in the chief global sustainability issues.
Our sound governance and business practices reinforce our financial officers review on pages 23 29 responsibility while operating in , low-cost, high-growth markets.
and the business review on pages 45 55 34 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 34 2013 03 04 2:59 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Distribution of value % An extensive footprint, with significant impact As a sizable employer in developed and emerging economies, our socioeconomic impact is significant.
At the end of 2012, the Mondi Group employed around 25,700 people.
We add value to the communities in which we operate and society at large by creating wealth, employment and business.
This contributes to the socioeconomic health and stability of these communities.
In 2012, we generated economic value of E1,753 million which was distributed as follows: direct taxation of E107 million to host countries: payments to employees of E868 million, including wages and other benefits: payments of E252 million to shareholders and providers of loan capital: and Employees 50 the balance of E526 million reinvested in the Group.
Providers of equity capital 9 Modernisation Providers of loan capital 5 Mondi has achieved significant milestones in improving working conditions in its forestry Direct taxes paid 6 operations in Russia and South Africa.
The objective over several years has been to Reinvested in the Group 30 develop operational practices that meet international good practice standards and to ensure international competitiveness.
The modernisation and mechanisation programme with its focus on achieving both decent working conditions and competitive operations, will inevitably result in fewer but higher skilled and better paid jobs.
To mitigate this impact, as an example in South Africa, Mondi established an enterprise development unit, Mondi Zimele, to support and promote small and medium sized enterprises by making equity, loans and development support available.
Since Mondi Zimeles inception in 2006, in excess of 2,700 jobs have been created.
In 2012, together with the Development Bank of Southern Africa, E13.2 million has been invested into the project with the goal to create 3,500 jobs within three years.
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure of E298 million was E35 million higher than the prior year.
The capital expenditure to depreciation ratio was 86% including expenditure on a number of the Groups strategic energy projects.
Mondis approved energy related investments totalling approximately E140 million announced in early 2012 included a bark boiler at Syktyvkar in Russia, a steam turbine Capital expenditure E million and recovery boiler economiser at Stambolijski, Bulgaria, a new recovery boiler at Frantschach, Austria and a new steam turbine at the Richards Bay mill in South Africa.
394 400 The benefits of these investments, mainly in the form of reduced energy costs, improved efficiencies and energy self-sufficiency, are expected to be realised from the end of 2013 as these projects reach completion.
298 300 Product stewardship, certification and labelling 263 We aim to deliver exceptional value to our customers by transforming raw materials into innovative product solutions that meet their needs in a responsible and 200 sustainable way.
Developing cost-efficient, high-performance and environmentallysound solutions is a cornerstone of our business strategy.
All our business activities and products are underpinned by the philosophy of responsible citizenship.
Our product responsibility strategy is aligned with the needs of our customers and 100 guided by our product stewardship network.
The strategy combines the views and expertise from regulators, product stewards, product developers and designers, R&D specialists, marketing and communications managers, in close collaboration with the 0 2010 2011 2012 sustainability team.
indd 35 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Sustainable development review continued Effective product stewardship means we actively manage the environmental, safety and health impact of our products throughout their life cycle.
Our approach to product stewardship is based on the Life-Cycle Initiative set out in the United Nations Environmental Programme UNEP.
Third party certification is an important tool in supporting our credibility in the market.
We have updated our procurement policies to ensure we do not procure any fibre based products from controversial sources.
We are committed to maintaining the FSC certification of all our owned, leased and managed forests in South Africa and Russia: and sourcing our timber requirements from CoC-certified materials according to FSC or PEFC standards.
Our certified products carry clear and informative labelling to ensure that our customers are aware of the environmental practices and health and safety assessments conducted throughout the life cycles of our products.
Our product-related sustainability commitments include hygiene certification of all our food contact packaging operations and increasing the CoC-certified portion of our fibrebased products.
In 2012, no incidents of non-compliance relating to the regulation and voluntary codes we subscribe to concerning product and service information and labelling were recorded.
To view the full list of our Green Range Innovative product development products go to Mondi runs a network of R&D and Innovation Centres.
These centres focus on the http: www.
com products development of products and solutions in their respective market segments to meet and exceed customer needs.
The Green Range product family was developed to promote SSFIR SD preferable purchasing, and to support customers in going green.
The Green Range More information on Mondis products can be found on pages 10 13 uncoated fine paper products comply with the ISO 14021 standard for self-declared environmental claims.
These products are either totally chlorine free, manufactured from 100% recycled products, sourced from sustainably managed forests FSC PEFC certified, or a combination of these.
In 2012, all Mondi-branded uncoated fine papers fulfilled the Green Range criteria.
The range has since been extended to include smart packaging products including sack and speciality kraft papers, containerboard, corrugated packaging, industrial bags, extrusion coated products and consumer packaging.
The Green Range products are optimised to save natural resources, reduce waste and have received certifications towards their sustainability from internationally recognised bodies.
Our sustainable development in a resource and ecologically constrained environment Our strategy aims to secure our long-term access to sustainable and credible sources of fibre by managing our natural capital including our carbon, water and forest footprints.
Operations are required to develop and implement environmental programmes and procedures aligned to Mondi operating standards, performance requirements and Mondi management standards.
These are then aligned with our environmental strategy.
Our environmental strategy ensures that we: meet the requirements of sustainable forestry practices, from the management of our forests to the procurement of our wood and fibre: 36 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 36 2013 03 04 2:59 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance incorporate environmental considerations into our decision-making, committing us to land and freshwater stewardship and allowing us to make a positive contribution to biodiversity and ecosystem maintenance: consider the consequences and mitigation of climate change on our business and communities: e emissions from fossil fuels: aim to reduce our CO2 manage our water resources wisely and responsibly: and address any risk or negative impact that may result from emissions, discharges and waste.
Environmental performance is taken into account when management performance is measured.
Environmental management is integral to our operating costs, and environmental expenditure therefore cannot be separated from operational expenditure.
Certification of wood % Responsible forestry Wood is one of Mondis primary raw materials.
Securing access to sustainable and credible sources of fibre in the short, medium and long term, to meet the needs of our business and our customers, is among the most significant issues facing the Group.
Ensuring that we meet the requirements of sustainable forestry practices is a fundamental business imperative.
For Mondi, this means consistently considering the productive capability, biological integrity and community needs of the forests that we own, lease or manage.
Mondi owns or leases 305,952 hectares of land in South Africa, of which 202,466 hectares FSC certified 46 around 66% are planted with hardwoods and softwoods.
We also lease and manage PEFC certified 19 2.1 million hectares of mainly softwood boreal forests in Russia.
Other credible sources 35 All our plantations in South Africa and leased managed forests in Russia are FSC certified and 65% of all wood supply is FSC or PEFC certified.
The uncertified balance met the FSC Controlled Wood Standard or the PEFC Mandatory Guidance for the Avoidance of Controversial Timber, ensuring that no wood or other fibre based products are procured 3 Wood procured million m from controversial sources.
With the exception of Stambolijski, Bulgaria, all of our mills have CoC certificates in 18 16.8 place, ensuring that the wood supplied to our processing operations was FSC or PEFC 16.3 15.7 16 certified.
We aim to certify Stambolijski to FSC CoC standards during 2013.
This will however be dependent on the Bulgarian State Forest making sufficient volumes of 14 certified material available.
12 3 The total amount of wood procured by Mondi in 2012 was 16.3 million m, of which 10 3 3 10.6 million m 65% was certified to FSC PEFC 2011: 16.8 million m of which 3 10.3 million m 61% was certified to FSC PEFC.
8 6 Mondi does not participate in deforestation, illegal logging, harvesting which affects any Convention of International Trade on Endangered Species CITES, any rare and 4 endangered species International Union for Conservation of Nature IUCN red data 2 species and no wood is sourced from genetically modified GM trees.
In addition, we do not grow GM crops.
For every tree that is felled in our plantation forests, at least one 0 2010 2011 2012 other is planted.
Some 31 million trees were planted by Mondi in 2012 2011: 32 million.
We do not convert natural forests, riparian areas, wetlands or protected areas into plantations.
HCV areas are identified and preserved or enhanced, as is biological 3 Wood volumes are reported in m across our diversity.
In Russia we have set aside 522,260 hectares for conservation 25% of our reports, with figures reflecting Solid Cubic Metres SCM.
landholding and 76,398 hectares in South Africa 25% of our landholding.
indd 37 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Sustainable development review continued Mondi is part of the new generation plantations NGP project, a collaborative effort SSFIR SD Phases 1 and 2 of the NGP project have been completed, and Mondi has between the WWF and several companies and governments, working together to identify signed up to phase 3.
To read more and promote practices and policy frameworks that will enable a new generation of about our future commitments go to more sustainable plantations.
NGPs are intensively-managed forest plantations that www.
com sd12 maintain ecosystem integrity, protect HCV areas and are developed through stakeholder engagement, including NGOs, specialists and local communities, to contribute to economic growth and livelihoods.
CASE STUDY Active stewardship and MSADs We minimise the impact of our plantation and forestry activities on the environment ecosystem management plans by identifying and helping to protect important and vulnerable ecosystems.
We have developed ecosystem management plans for all our forestry operations in South Africa.
See the full case study online at www.
com sd12- They help us improve the way we identify, protect, preserve, manage, and in some cases,  restore functioning ecosystems and biodiversity.
Optimising energy usage and climate change We have considered the consequences of climate change on our business, our business environment and our communities, and the means through which these consequences may be mitigated.
Reducing carbon emissions from energy generation from fossil fuels, deforestation and forest degradation is fundamental to international efforts to address climate change.
Energy generation contributes significantly to greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and rising production volumes will continue to increase our energy consumption.
In 2012, total energy use was 147.2 million GJ 2011: 146.9 million GJ from our material operations and total electrical requirements for producing pulp and paper amounted to 5.5 million MWh 2011: 5.4 million MWh.
Thus, our climate change programme is directed at optimising energy usage and increasing our use of renewable energy.
SSFIR Our ener SD gy related capital expenditure Our energy related projects, totalling approximately E300 million in capital expenditure, is discussed in more detail in the chief are expected to generate benefits with returns well in excess of our targeted ROCE from executives review on pages 17 18 2014 onwards.
We recognise that forests moderate climate change because of their ability to absorb and store CO. 2 We are improving our energy efficiency and reducing our CO e emissions from the use of 2 fossil fuels by: Specific CO e emissions from our material 2 operations CO e tonnes tonnes of saleable production 2 improving the energy efficiency of our production processes: 1.0 further increasing energy generation through combined heat and power CHP technology: 0.86 0.86 0.86 increasing our use of biomass-based fuels for energy generation: and 0.8 implementing projects that will deliver carbon credits under  0.70 0.67 0.67 flexible mechanisms, providing green energy to customers.
0.6 We use biomass energy sources such as black liquor as an alternative to fossil fuels at our chemical pulp mills.
In total, some 58% of Mondis fuel consumption for material 0.4 operations was derived from biomass.
Some of these operations are also net green energy providers to local communities and third parties.
Our continued investments in new 0.19 0.19 0.2 0.16 recovery boilers and turbines help us achieve greater energy efficiency and electrical selfsufficiency as well as reducing carbon emissions by utilising the heat value of black liquor.
0.0 We report our GHG emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, published by Scope 1 Scope 2 Total CO e 2 the WBCSD and the World Resources Institute.
We have reported our scope 1 and 2 GHG 2010 2011 2012 38 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 38 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance data in compliance with ISO 14064:1-2006.
In 2012, our direct scope 1 Group-wide GHG emissions amounted to 4.20 million tonnes CO2e 2011: 4.27 million tonnes CO2e from our material operations and 0.12 million tonnes CO2e 2011: 0.12 million tonnes CO2e from our converters, while our indirect scope 2 emissions from purchased energy were 1.17 million tonnes CO e 2011: 1.00 million tonnes CO e, from our material operations 2 2 and 0.10 million tonnes CO e 2011: 0.11 million tonnes CO e from our converters.
Our 2 2 indirect scope 3 emissions from transporting our products and raw materials, employee commuting, business travel and raw materials are estimated to amount to 2 million tonnes CO e 2011: 2 million tonnes CO e. 2 2 Water Emissions to water COD tonnes We are a significant user of water and are committed to managing it wisely and 49,923 responsibly.
Our usage of, and interaction with, water is carefully considered in our 50,000 46,987 47,049 environmental strategy and we have set concrete actions to reduce our direct water consumption and preserve and, in some cases, restore wetlands in our forests.
40,000 Water is a critical resource for the paper industry and is required during different stages in the production process, from growing wood to processing pulp into the final 30,000 product.
Most of our water footprint is the green water the rainwater stored in the soil as moisture consumed in the forestry stage, where water is returned to the water cycle through evapotranspiration the sum of evaporation and transpiration.
Our total 20,000 3 3 freshwater input for our operations in 2012 was 307 million m 2011: 309 million m. The recycling of water is important to optimise our resource efficiency.
We also use 10,000 the energy content of warm and hot water to generate energy, which has significant economic and environmental benefit.
In 2012, Mondi achieved a 2% water input 0 reduction through recycling and improved efficiencies.
2010 2011 2012 1 Included in our water discharges is the The water discharged after production is thoroughly treated before being released back waste water taken over from third parties into the natural environment to ensure it is ecologically safe and meets all regulatory and treated at our waste water treatment requirements.
In 2012, 328 million m of water was discharged by Mondis operations plants.
The waste water from third parties 3 1 2011: 330 million m. about 40 million m for 2012 is not reflected in our total water input figure reported.
We use two key indicators of discharges to water: chemical oxygen demand COD : and adsorbable organic halogens AOX.
In 2012, COD tracked at 47,049 tonnes, an increase of 0.1%.
AOX emissions decreased in 2012 by 3%, and Mondi continues to TRS emissions tonnes investigate ways to further reduce AOX emissions.
120 Emissions to air 106 Minimising emissions to air continues to be a priority for Mondi.
Total reduced sulphur 99 100 TRS compounds are emitted from our pulp mills and can be detected by humans in 90 small quantities and at up to considerable distance from the source itself.
While the scale of concentrations emitted does not pose a health concern, tracked amounts are 80 enough to create a nuisance.
These malodorous gases can give rise to complaints and are our biggest community concern.
In 2012 our TRS emissions amounted to 99 tonnes 60 2011: 90 tonnes with 138 odour related complaints reported.
40 In addition to CO, SO is emitted as a result of the combustion of coal for energy 2 2 generation and affects air quality.
We continue to move away from using sulphur- 20 containing coal towards renewable sources for energy generation.
NOx emissions are related to the combustion of fossil fuels and biomass at our onsite 0 2010 2011 2012 energy generation operations.
We have implemented programmes to increase the Mondi Group 39 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 39 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Sustainable development review continued efficient use of our existing boilers and introduced fide-NOx systems in the purification of CASE STUDY exhaust gases.
In 2012, our NOx emissions amounted to 11,514 tonnes 2011: 11,616 tonnes Odour elimination at Richards Bay while our particulate emissions amounted to 1,614 tonnes 2011: 1,536 tonnes.
pulp mill Waste See the full case study online at Mondis process waste is carefully monitored and we categorise it according to www.
com sd12-  hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
The majority of our waste is recycled, re-used or used as secondary fuel for energy generation.
Our main waste streams are green liquor, boiler ash, lime mud, waste paper rejects and sludge.
In 2012, our total waste to landfill amounted to 266,642 tonnes, an 11% reduction on 2011.
During 2012, we recorded 1,562 tonnes of hazardous waste to landfill due to permitting delays which necessitated the disposal of green liquor dregs at a hazardous landfill for a period of time, for our Richards Bay operation.
Despite this hazardous waste to landfill increase, we have reduced our total waste to landfill by increasing the recycling and re-use of materials during 2012.
Mondis approach is to achieve zero waste to landfill in the future.
Total waste to landfill 000 tonnes Recycling Globally, paper is the most widely recycled product.
Based on natural fibres, using 350 renewable resources, all of Mondis paper-based products can be recycled.
About one third of our pulp use comes from paper for recycling.
Materials that are too degraded for 294 300 300 use in paper or board products can be used to provide carbon-neutral energy.
In 2012, 267 we consumed 1.5 million tonnes of paper for recycling, about a third of our pulp consumed.
250 Corrugated packaging consists of around 80% recycled content that is 100% biodegradable 200 and recyclable.
150 As our business expands further into packaging and plastic products, we will explore new opportunities to increase the amount of recycled content used without compromising 100 product quality and performance.
We are very aware of the crucial issues with respect to climate change, energy, resource efficiency and waste management and are looking 50 to reduce the environmental footprint of our products.
Our waste management approach is in line with the EU waste hierarchy, using recycling and energy recovery to achieve 0 2010 2011 2012 our commitments.
Our sustainable socioeconomic development in our diverse working and social environments Our strategy is to enhance our social footprint by engaging with our stakeholders in a mutually beneficial way, thereby ensuring the safety and health of our employees and contractors: attracting, retaining and developing our people: and promoting participation and development.
Our employees For us to succeed as a globally competitive organisation, we need a skilled, trained and committed workforce, able to undertake jobs safely and productively and to fulfil their potential.
Our aim is to develop and empower our people to perform at their best and to grow in a dynamic culture.
In 2012, a total of 893,116 hours of employee and contractor time were devoted to training and development.
40 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 40 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance At the end of 2012, Mondi employed 25,700 people.
We also provided employment for an estimated average of 2,220 contractors at our mills and 8,200 contractors within the forestry division in South Africa.
Mondi has formal and informal processes to communicate with and engage employees across the Group.
In addition to electronic communications and publications, regular local briefing sessions by managers focus on safety, operational objectives and performance, achievements and the Groups values and culture.
In 2011 a Group-wide employee survey was completed followed by feedback and consultation sessions in early 2012, resulting in initiatives which strengthen employee engagement and communication.
We uphold the labour rights set out in the Fundamental Rights Convention of the International Labour Organization ILO and subscribe to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
This is embodied in our SDMS which ensures the provision of a fair, safe and healthy workplace for all employees, free from discrimination, harassment or abuse.
We encourage our suppliers, customers and business partners to work in accordance to these principles.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be consistent with that of other employees.
Collective bargaining practices differ from country to country and are embedded within the functioning of the Group.
Our sustainable development policies, management standards and performance requirements on global employment and corporate citizenship comply with local legislation and ensure that employment practices are fair and that employees are represented appropriately.
Engaging with our communities We make every effort to be a reliable and responsible neighbour at all our operations.
CASE STUDIES Social and economic conditions form an important backdrop to Mondis contribution to the sustainable development of a region, and we conduct an assessment of the See our case studies on the Richards impact our industrial activities have on the socioeconomic climate of host communities Bay, South Africa and Syktyvkar, Russia SEAT reports and regions at our material sites every three to five years.
This assessment is known as SEAT.
In 2012, two SEAT assessments were finalised one at Richards Bay, South See the full case studies online at Africa and one at Syktyvkar, Russia.
SEAT reviews monitor our positive and negative www.
com sd12- richards-bay-seat and impacts on local communities, NGOs and government as well as the quality, relevance, www.
com sd12- scope and effectiveness of our corporate social investment CSI programmes and syktyvkar-seat projects.
The review provides managements response and strategy to minimise negative impacts and to promote regional growth through structured social agreements.
Our CEPs provide the basis of our ongoing engagement and support of local communities, and are in place at all our mills and forestry operations.
CEPs assist us in maintaining constructive dialogue, so that communities may raise any concerns which will, in turn, be addressed.
Mutually acceptable monitoring mechanisms, developed in collaboration with local communities, monitor the effectiveness of our community engagement.
indd 41 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Sustainable development review continued CEPs also help us liaise with governments and local authorities: engage with NGOs, local industry and resident associations, local businesses and action groups: and with CSI.
CSI involves contributions whose benefits exceed those directly associated with our SSFIR SD Details of our CSI projects during 2012 can be found at www.
During 2012, Mondi contributed E14.3 million towards charitable donations and CSI projects 2011: E17.3 million.
TRCR per 200,000 hours worked Our safety culture Many of our employees and contractors work in potentially dangerous environments 1.2 1.09 where hazards are ever-present and must be managed.
Our approach to safety and health management is underpinned by our desire to create a culture where responsibility 1.0 0.92 for safety and health is shared.
Visible management commitment and learning from experience are critical elements in our progression towards our goal of zero harm in 0.79 0.8 the workplace.
0.6 It is with great regret that we report two fatalities at our operations during the year one in Finland and one in Russia.
Full investigations have been conducted into these incidents.
We are also reviewing our approach to high risk, low probability incidents 0.4 in order to achieve a fatality-free working environment.
0.2 A risk-based approach underpins our safety and health programmes.
All business units 0.0 and operations are required to have safety improvement plans in place.
These plans are 2010 2011 2012 aligned with our systematic and standardised approach to safety management to drive continuous improvement.
We engage in extensive safety training sessions, involving employees and contractors, at all our operations.
Our Nine Safety Rules to Live By, applied across the Group, are integral to our safety strategy.
Operations conduct statutory safety committee meetings where management and employees are represented.
Our health culture Our occupational health systems vary between operations and regions, as do the specific NIHL no.
of new cases identified local occupational health stressors present.
35 To address the various aspects of health and wellbeing, we approach occupational health 32 in a holistic way and continue to focus on prevention and promoting the correct use of 30 personal protective equipment.
25 Operations are encouraged to host health days for employees, in which various medical practitioners and health care providers participate.
Furthermore, employees are 20 encouraged to participate in health care monitoring services such as eye, blood and 16 sugar level tests.
15 Noise level restrictions are enforced at our operations and programmes are also in place 10 to reduce exposure to excessive noise and to measure actual noise levels.
All employees, contractors and visitors exposed to high levels of noise are required to use hearing 5 protective devices.
Those employees who need to work in noisy zones are required to 0 undergo regular medical examinations to monitor their hearing to detect the early signs of 0 2010 2011 2012 noise-induced hearing loss NIHL.
In 2012, no new cases of NIHL were identified.
42 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 42 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance In South Africa, HIV AIDS continues to cause illness and deaths amongst our employees and communities.
Mondi creates awareness of the disease to avoid onward infection and to encourage testing, counselling and treatment.
Voluntary counselling and testing VCT is freely available to all employees, and 1,198 employees made use of it in 2012.
Antiretroviral Therapy ART is also available to all employees and 175 people are currently receiving this treatment provided by our health clinics.
Land claims in South Africa Mondi is committed to restoring land to community ownership in South Africa.
We have a successful model for engaging and settling with land claimant communities, and assist them to develop long-term sustainable solutions and forestry enterprises rather than merely land restitution.
In this way communities derive an income from their land, and Mondi retains a reliable source of wood supply.
In 2012, we settled eight more land claims bringing the total number of settled claims to 19 involving 17,500 hectares of Mondi land under forestry.
In total, some 36,300 hectares of Mondi land under forestry have been transferred to community beneficiaries.
Our sustainable future Packaging and paper products are used all over the world, every day.
Our products need to be versatile to respond to changing societal needs, including customer demand for environmentally preferable purchasing.
We have a responsibility to respond effectively to the challenges and opportunities this presents with sustainable development an integral part of our strategy.
Our sustainability commitments and material issues allow Mondi to continue to shape our business.
Dyns, Sweden Recycled kraft paper produced at our mill Mondi Group 43 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 43 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Richards Bay, South Africa Our integrated pulp and containerboard mill 44 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
