com Group PLC BuBu sin se in ss e O ss Rev vervi iew ew Annual Report 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report more talent more opportunity more fun.
Community team members present the Railway Children charity with 600.
The Board considers that the management of safety, health, The 2012 Charity of the Year was the Alzheimers Society.
environment, social and ethical matters forms a key element The charity provides help and support to people affected of effective corporate governance which in turn supports the by dementia.
Over the course of the year the Groups strategy, long term performance and sustainability of the employees raised 12,357 for the Alzheimers Society with the business.
Group also donating 12,357, bringing the total donated to the Alzheimers Society during the year to 24,714.
Communities and charities Employees have selected Mind as its 2013 Charity of the The Groups.
Community initiative was launched in 2008 Year.
The charity provides help and support to those and has continued to develop during 2012.
The initiative is affected by mental health problems.
focused on providing support to charities located within a few miles of the Groups ofces in Ewloe and so support is The Group launched a volunteering scheme in October 2011 targeted primarily in Flintshire and Cheshire.
through which the Group supports a total of 60 volunteering days per year to help those who are less fortunate, and A volunteer group of employees meet each month to review thereby make a valuable contribution to our local community.
requests for donations from charities and to allocate funds During the year employees volunteered in a diverse range of according to agreed donation guidelines.
Employees are activities including helping at an orphanage in Cambodia.
also active in researching and seeking out local good causes that the Group can help support.
The initiative has Environment been effective at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm of the Groups employees to benefit the communities in which The Group has established a team called the Green Team it operates.
which comprises a volunteer group of employees who meet regularly and whose aim is to reduce energy and raw In 2012 the Group made 2,000 per month available for the material usage throughout the Group to support.
This funding has been channelled via environmental and financial performance.
the Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the Group to make gross donations to registered charities.
The Green Team have implemented a number of initiatives in 2012 to support this aim including the installation of solar panels Over the course of the year the Group has supported 44 at the Groups head ofce resulting in energy savings of charities including: approximately 60,000kwh during 2012, the installation of energy t Green Pastures Homeless Charity efficient lighting at the Groups ofces, and the continued t Age Concern replacement of PCs and printers with more energy efficient t The North Wales Chrysalis Trust models.
The Group estimates that during 2012 it recycled on t Alder Hey Childrens Charity average over 50% of its commercial waste.
t Miles of Smiles t Clwyd Special Riding Centre Employees t Shelter Cymru The Group actively encourages employee involvement and consultation and places considerable emphasis on keeping In addition to the.
Community initiative, the Group and its its employees informed of the Groups activities via formal employees continue to select and support a Charity of the half yearly business performance updates, regular update Year on an annual basis.
briengs, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC 29 Bu Bussiin neessss Rev Over iew view Annual Report 2012 which enables easy access to the latest Group information on the grounds of age.
as well as Group policies, and the circulation to employees The Group recognises the importance of health and safety of relevant information including corporate announcements.
and the positive benets to the Group.
The Group has a This also helps to achieve a common awareness amongst health and safety policy which is communicated to all employees of the financial and economic factors affecting employees through a health and safety handbook, which is the performance of the Group.
The Group has an established employee forum through Supporting students which nominated representatives ensure that employees In order to build links between the Group and local schools views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely and colleges, work experience and placements are offered to affect them.
A robust employee engagement survey to a number of students.
In doing so, the Group strives to process is also in place to ensure that employees are given make work placements positive, challenging and relevant to a voice in the organisation and that the Group can take participants current studies and their future job prospects.
action based on employee feedback.
Business ethics The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
The Group has formal ethics and anti-bribery policies which The Group aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated incorporate the Groups key principles and standards against, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, governing business conduct towards our key stakeholder ethnic and national origins, sexual orientation or gender, groups.
We believe we should treat all of these groups with marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or honesty and integrity.
com is supporting Our charity and.
Community teams are graduate employment and training.
In encouraged to get involved to help 2012, we introduced the Digital national and local causes.
This is nominate a national charity to support, a detailed programme aimed at ensuring and in 2012, we supported the our graduate employees and all Alzheimers Society.
As well as making MoneySupermarket.
com staff understand donations and grants to local charities, the fundamentals of digital marketing and the.
Community team gets involved in have access to the very best training in other ways, including using staff digital marketing disciplines.
Our ambition volunteering days, donating their in 2013 is to develop an externally
