National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 5 Our operating environment The price control includes a number of mechanisms to achieve We operate in a complex environment with a number of its objectives, including financial incentives designed to external factors affecting our operations.
encourage us to: continuously improve the cost and Energy policy effectiveness of our services: manage and operate our With the implementation of the 3rd Energy Package in 2011, networks: provide quality customer service: and invest in the the development of the European Infrastructure Package in development of the network in a manner that ensures the long- 2012 and emerging EU thinking on a roadmap to 2050 ie term security of supply.
moving beyond the 2020 CO targets, the EU is an important 2 To ensure that our licensed businesses are operating efficiently, factor in the development of energy policy in the UK.
The 3rd and consumers are protected, we operate under six price Energy Package is largely associated with the development of controls, comprising: two for our gas transmission operations, EU level codes, to establish EU wide rules on technical and one covering our role as transmission owner TO and the other commercial issues relating to cross border trade.
These codes for our role as system operator SO and one for each of our are the responsibility of the European networks for transmission four regional gas distribution networks.
In addition to the six system operators for electricity and the European networks for price controls, our LNG storage business has a price control transmission system operators for gas, and we have been covering some aspects of its operations.
There is also a tariff working closely with the latter.
cap price control applied to certain elements of domestic metering and daily meter reading activities undertaken by Economic environment National Grid Metering.
The economic uncertainty within the eurozone has led to volatility in financial markets during the year.
However, we have Current price controls not experienced any adverse effects.
Instead, as the UK is seen The current price control mechanisms for our gas distribution as a safe haven, its bond yields have fallen and this has had a business will expire on 31 March 2013.
The price controls for positive effect on our cost of debt.
We continue to monitor our transmission business were extended for one year and will developments, as it may affect our ability to access capital now also expire on 31 March 2013.
The extension included real markets or the financial strength of our counterparties.
increases in revenues for gas transmission next year and a base real vanilla return of 4.75%.
The revenue increase partly Inflation in the UK has declined from its peak in September reflects the capital investment we have made over the current 2011, but remains above the long-term trend.
Our regulated price control period which forms part of our total RAV, which at revenues are linked to inflation and this has therefore led to 31 March 2012 was over 13 billion.
higher revenues see below for an explanation of the regulatory regime.
We also have index-linked debt so our financing cost The current price control mechanism establishes the amount of increases with inflation, providing a partial economic offset.
money that can be earned by our regulated businesses which is restricted by what is referred to as an RPI-X price control.
The Regulatory environment RPI-X allowance is based on Ofgems estimates of efficient The Gas Act 1986, as amended the Act, provides the operating expenditure opex, capital expenditure capex and fundamental legal framework for gas companies.
It establishes asset replacement, together with an allowance for depreciation the licences for gas transmission, distribution, shipping and and an allowed rate of return on capital invested in our supply.
The licences established under the Act require us to businesses.
The RPI-X price control takes the RPI as its develop, maintain and operate an economic and efficient inflation benchmark and subtracts X, an efficiency factor, from network and to facilitate competition in the supply of gas in it.
For example, at a time when annual inflation was 3%, a value Great Britain.
They also give our licensed businesses statutory for X of 2% would allow our regulated businesses to raise powers, such as the right to bury our pipes under public prices by no more than 1%.
highways and the ability to use compulsory powers to purchase The RAV, which represents the value ascribed by Ofgem to the land to enable the conduct of our businesses.
capital employed in our regulated businesses, is adjusted to Energy networks are regulated by Ofgem which operates under reflect asset additions, removals, depreciation and the rate of the direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets inflation.
Ofgem has established price control mechanisms that set the amount of revenue that can be earned by our regulated businesses.
Price control regulation is designed to ensure our interests, as a monopoly, are balanced with those of our customers.
Ofgem allows us to charge reasonable, but not excessive prices, giving us a future level of revenue sufficient to meet our statutory duties and licence obligations, and also to make a reasonable return on our investment.
6 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Current regulatory building blocks Managing uncertainty Revenue is the sum of: With an eight year price control period replacing the previous Allowed return on RAV five year controls, there will inevitably be a larger exposure to Depreciation of RAV potential variance against our forecasts.
In order to understand Controllable operating costs the impact that different outcomes might have, we have Other costs, eg tax modelled a range of credible future demand scenarios using the Performance against incentives scenarios developed with stakeholders through National Grids UK Future Energy Scenarios process.
Future price controls It is estimated that we will need to invest over 10 billion during Building on our existing risk management approach, we have the RIIO period to facilitate the move to a low carbon economy.
developed an innovative risk model to better understand the This will include the gas networks meeting environmental risks that our business will face, how those risks might best be challenges and securing energy supplies.
managed, and to evaluate the relationship between uncertainty mechanisms and the required rate of return.
We have shared In light of the challenges around the evolving energy this model with stakeholders, including Ofgem, who have been environment and the significant investments required, Ofgem broadly supportive of it.
have introduced a new regulatory price control framework to replace the existing framework which has been in use for over Following discussions with stakeholders, we have proposed a 20 years.
This is known as RIIO: revenue incentives number of regulatory mechanisms which would adjust our innovation outputs.
allowed investment levels over the period of the price control, to ensure there are no inappropriate windfall gains or losses for Under this regime, networks will be encouraged to deliver our networks or consumers, as a result of reality diverging from outputs, such as agreed levels of safety, reliability and the assumptions we have made in forecasting the next eight environmental performance, while ensuring timely connections years.
In doing this, we have maintained the principle that risks for customers, improving on customer satisfaction and for Gas should be borne by the party best able to manage them.
Distribution only complying with social obligations.
The networks will be incentivised to deliver these innovatively and Further information on these mechanisms and the risks they efficiently.
During the price control review process, Ofgem will seek to reduce is available on our price control stakeholder assess what an efficient level of expenditure would be to deliver engagement website: www.
these outputs and will then set the revenue levels accordingly.
The RIIO price control will last for eight years with a mid-period review at four years.
The fundamentals of how our revenue will be derived under RIIO are not that different, but the mechanics of how capex and opex totex are treated has changed.
A fixed proportion of totex goes into the RAV slow money with the remainder remunerated within the year fast money.
Proposed regulatory building blocks Revenue is the sum of: Allowed return on RAV slow money Depreciation of RAV slow money Fast money totex less proportion included in RAV Other costs, e. g. tax Performance against incentives We have developed our business plans in conjunction with our stakeholders and have reflected their views and feedback in our updated plans, submitted to Ofgem in March and April 2012 for our UK Transmission and UK Gas Distribution businesses respectively.
Full details of these business plans can be found on National Grids website.
Ofgem issued its initial proposals for the first RIIO control period in July 2012 and will issue its final proposals in December 2012.
We will continue to work with Ofgem as the RIIO price controls are finalised, to secure positive opportunities to invest for longterm profitable growth and reasonable returns.
