Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32 33 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Risk management Operational risks Geological risks Social and Impact on community risks Description Description environmental risks NWRs mining operations are among the deepest coal mines in the world, and the As NWR is the second largest private sector employer in the Czech Republic, it naturally geological conditions are subject to potential unpredictable events that may impact on occupies a significant, integral role in the socio-economic fabric of the communities production.
where its operations are located.
Consequently, there is a heightened sensitivity that may negatively impact on the Company if NWR is perceived to be not adequately Mitigation discharging its responsibilities.
NWR uses the latest mining technologies including improved ventilation systems: Mitigation enhanced protection from rock bounces: as well as improved detection and procedures for dealing with methane leaks.
NWR places strong emphasis on transparency and is fully committed to open and continuous dialogue with all relevant stakeholders including, but not limited to, local communities, municipal and state authorities.
Detailed measures for the mitigation of community risks are discussed further in the Health and safety risks Sustainability Report 2012.
Description NWRs operations are deep underground with some of the most challenging geological conditions in the market.
Such conditions are high-risk meaning exposure to health Environmental risks and safety risks may result in accidents, injuries including fatal injuries, production Description disruption, financial penatlities, and reputational damage.
The Groups operations in mining and coking have an impact on the environment in many Mitigation ways.
Inadequate preventative and remedial actions may result in irreversible material damage to the environment and may affect the Groups corporate reputation and ability NWR is a regional leader in safety in deep underground mining.
to operate in its current business landscape.
Fatalities are investigated by a designated team of experts and, wherever possible, lessons are learnt and further mitigation measures implemented as the Company Mitigation strives for zero fatalities at its operations.
NWR remains committed to reaching a rate of less than five lost-time injuries NWR undertakes to minimise the impact its operations have on the environment per million hours worked by 2015, and to become a top five global leader in deep by applying best-practice operating processes and continuously implementing underground coal mining by 2017. improved technology.
In cases where the impact on the environment cannot be The Board of NWR is committed to a safety first attitude Group-wide through avoided, NWR works closely with local communities and the authorities to redress implementing continuous training, and has made stronger links between safety and the environmental balance as far as possible: two such strategies would include land financial motivation at all levels of the Company.
reclamation and reduction of emissions.
NWR focuses on open communication of its negative impacts on the environment and corresponding mitigation measures.
Detailed measures for the mitigation of environmental risks are discussed further Lack of qualified workforce risks in the Sustainability Report 2012.
Description NWR has a continuous need to attract and retain highly skilled employees and maintain effective industrial relations, in order to maintain its competitive advantage.
If NWR is unable to do so, this may jeopardise the Companys operational performance and growth potential.
Mitigation In order to help retain employees, NWR offers attractive compensation packages including support for vocational and secondary mining education.
Bribery, corruption and fraud risks Other risks NWR aims to attract new employees through close liaison with local schools and Description universities including the provision of scholarships and first-class training.
NWR operates in an industry and countries that have historically been prone to risks The Company maintains constructive and regular dialogue with all its trade unions.
of bribery, corruption, fraud or otherwise unethical or anti-competitive behaviour.
Such risks can negatively impact on the Groups business through prosecution, fines or reputational damage.
Mitigation NWR adopts a zero tolerance policy to bribery, corruption and fraud Group-wide, and procedures governing this are implemented throughout the Company.
Employees receive continuous training on these policies.
NWR regularly carries out reviews of its business partners to strengthen compliance with the Companys approach to bribery, corruption and fraud.
