Corporate social responsibility Our corporate Common and consistent standards and where necessary identied Business Conduct, which covers the responsibility in accordance with legislative improvements and subsequently Bribery Act, competition, conicts and best practice requirements are monitored compliance.
The of interest, insider information, At Northgate we understand applied across all Group operations.
LiViviE condentiality, gifts and that we have a wider obligation Risk controls and procedures are department is to ensure continuous entertainment, discrimination, to run our business in a responsible continually assessed to ensure that improvement across the Group harassment and fair dealing with and sustainable way for all our everything is being done to meet and provide pragmatic and practical customers and suppliers.
We believe that the highest possible standards of solutions to the operational risks supporting the communities in In addition, the GroupsE iii} within the business to all levels which we operate and providing Whistleblowing Policy and of employees with a strong focus Viii `LE a safe environment for our Procedure enables every Group operating controls.
on behavioural safety and employees is integral to the overall employee to have a voice and a employee involvement.
means by which they may draw Health & safety i i E vi concerns to our attention.
"How we manage corporate "" Vi E vi across the business is monitored is responsibility is simple: to ensure that no harm by the Accident Frequency Rate Our employees comes to anyone engaged AFR during the course of our Taking corporate responsibility As a Group we value our with Northgate."
The AFR is calculated as the and sustainability seriously is of the employees as we understand number of accidents reportable utmost importance to Northgate.
We realise that excellence in that they are the key resource under the Reporting of Injuries, -` `Li E vi i E viV Li required to deliver the high levels Diseases and Dangerous `iiE achieved if it forms part of every of customer service that maintains Occurences Regulations 1995 arrangements and risk controls individuals responsibility within our competitive advantage.
"RIDDOR per 100,000 employee therefore form a key part of the i ""- viE-` At 30 April 2012 we had 2,800 hours worked."
Although the Groups overall business strategy.
initiative was rolled out this employees across the Group, legislation in Spain defines year to create an environment 1,900 in the UK and 900 in Spain.
The Groups arrangements for reportable accidents under different of openness and awareness, where rules to the UK, the data reported is We recognise that ourE }i Vi ` }ii all colleagues feel able to identify systems are monitored by the in line with RIDDOR.
employees depend on us and and raise concerns about working we continually work on improving Audit and Risk Committee who practices and conditions.
The The AFRs during the current year have designated the Chief Executive their engagement and motivation Group provides training for are as follows: as the person ultimately responsible as the key to delivering high employees in a wide range of 2012 for implementing best practice levels of customer service.
Our i E vi`Vi]v throughout the Group.
UK 1.2 employees are rewarded through which is carried out internally by Spain 5.5 a combination of competitive iE `i i] pay and incentive programmes which in the UK is accredited by Group 2.5 which enable them to share in the British Safety Council.
the progress towards the During the year the Groups Ethics Groups objectives.
-E `i iV i` Northgate holds the highest formal audit reviews to measure levels of ethical standards and iv VivE communicates this to all employees management system at all locations by way of the Groups Code of 2 1 3 Northgate plc Corporate social responsibility 22 Annual report and accounts 2012 Our employees continued Regular communication with our the UK Northgate Plc were awarded As at 30 April 2012 the UK eet of employees is vital in ensuring that the internationally recognised 52,900 vehicles had an average age The Groups policy is to recruit we all share in the common goals Environmental Standard ISO 14001 of 21.4 months.
The total eet in the best available people who and values of the Group.
The operating Spain was 38,400 vehicles with an are aligned with and embody our intranet provides daily updates on business in Spain also maintained average age of 21.8 months.
All core values of professionalism, the progress of the Group and is its accreditation to ISO 14001 vehicles purchased in the year teamwork and can-do attitude supplemented by Driven our Standard.
ended 30 April 2012 met the latest and these values apply throughout quarterly magazine.
The Chief 6 ` ` the Group regardless of seniority As at 30 April 2012, the UK Executive also hosts quarterly of position.
business operated from a total of brieng updates, with an invitation Our community 78 locations including 62 rental Northgate is committed to to all staff to directly raise any sites.
The Spanish business operates We are a responsible issues concerning them.
equality, judging applications for from a total of 30 locations employer, neighbour and member employment neither by race, including 23 rental sites.
The vast of the local community and Environment nationality, gender, age, disability, majority of these sites are located therefore operate our business in sexual orientation nor political bias.
Northgate is committed to taking on industrial estates, so our a way that continuously improves Investing in the training and reasonable actions to minimise activities have minimal impact on our relationship with employees, development of our workforce the risk of adverse impact on the the local community of the areas in customers, neighbours and the not only improves the quality and environment from our business.
standard of our service delivery We achieve this by adopting a set The Group is a sponsor of Brake, but enables a high level of retention of environmental principles to Our customers and the road safety charity, and is a and allows everyone to contribute promote and operate processes suppliers member of the British Safety to their full potential.
Regular and procedures which avoid or Northgate recognises the need Council and the Royal Society for training programmes are operated minimise the contamination of to support our customers in the Prevention of Accidents and a suite of off-the-shelf water, air or the ground whilst managing a sustainable business.
For the fourth successive training courses are now available maintaining a responsibility to We work with our suppliers to year we received a Gold Award to employees in the UK.
manage those by-products and make a eet available to our from RoSPA in recognition of the waste materials generated by our In the UK, the company customers comprised entirelyE }ii activities, particularly from our continues to work with two of modern vehicles, achieving the UK.
Winning this prestigious vehicle repair workshops.
vehicle manufacturers to recruit the highest levels of exhaust award for four consecutive years apprentices.
Over the past two During the year 100% of hazardous emission standards.
underlines our commitment to years, 42 new workshop waste streams collected from corporate social responsibility.
In Spain we are one of the first apprentices have been recruited, vehicle repair workshops in the UK businesses to offer hire of electric and it is planned to recruit a further and 87% of hazardous waste vehicles to our customers and our 30 in the financial year to April streams collected from vehicle vehicle monitoring systems in the 2013.
A new colleague induction repair workshops in Spain were UK have enabled certain customers programme has also been recycled.
We continue to work to reduce fuel costs by up to 15% introduced in the UK.
closely with our waste management by reviewing the usage of their partners to improve waste eets and identifying training needs management arrangements and to educate employees on more fuel performance across the Group.
"1 1 All All vehicles pur vehicles purchased in chased in t the year met the latest he year met the latest e envir nviro onmental Eur nmental Euro o 66 ` ` ` ` 2 2 A A bodyshop technician at our bodyshop technician at our 6666 iV iV ii- "" ""- viE-` i - viE-` i r rolled out this olled out this year to all year to all e employees in the UK."
4 4 T These electric vehicles deliver hese electric vehicles delivered ed t to our airport management o our airport management VVi ``ii i ``ii f form part of our electric vehicle orm part of our electric vehicle eet in Spain.
4 44 Northgate plc Corporate social responsibility 23 Annual report and accounts 2012
