Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 28 Corporate social responsibility report Running our business in a responsible way is fundamental both to the way we operate and to delivering sustainable profits and long-term value for our shareholders.
This corporate social responsibility report explains how we carry out our responsibilities with respect to the environment, our employees and the community.
Environment Our ambition is to be the UKs greenest, most innovative and best value grocery retailer, by providing a greener, more sustainable alternative to store-based supermarkets.
Some elements of our operations have been developed with the aim of reducing the business environmental impact.
Closed-loop recycling: Carrier bags from Ocado as well as from other shops or supermarkets are collected from customers and The charity committee with Macmillan recycled to make new carrier bags.
Green van slots: Customers can choose a green van slot to We conduct an annual employee survey across the whole business minimise the carbon impact of their delivery.
to measure levels of employee engagement and identify the areas where we can become a better employer.
Our employees are Reducing food wastage: The Directors believe that our food given a voice through the Ocado Council, which is our employee waste as a percentage of revenue 0.7% of the revenue for the representative body, that helps facilitate employee participation period is signicantly less than any of our competitors.
Some of and consultation in our rapidly growing business.
Representatives this food despite being accounted for as waste as it is beyond of the Union of Shop, Distributive and Allied Workers USDAW the Ocado guaranteed product life is still within the use-by date, participate in the Ocado Council, giving employees a choice of and is donated to various charities or sold at a discount at the independent or union-sponsored representatives to voice their staff shop.
views on pay, holiday entitlements and the number of working Anaerobic digestion: Some of our food waste is sent to Biogen, hours, along with other topics of general interest.
who use the waste to produce electricity and fertiliser.
Our employees are kept well informed of the performance of the Group and key events concerning the business through brieng Suppliers and products meetings and communications via the internet, email, video and We now have around 600 products in our Ocado own-label audio recordings which are particularly helpful for communicating range.
We support British and EU farming, and where possible, with our large number of CSTMs.
These are intended to help our source own-label products from the British Isles.
All Ocado employees become aware of the various factors that affect the own-label is responsibly sourced: Ocado sh is responsibly Companys performance.
caught, Ocado fresh meat and poultry is raised to British, EU or New Zealand welfare standards and Ocado boxed eggs are Every employee plays a part in our success and we are focused free-range.
Our in-house training team deliver customer focused training that prioritises the health and safety People of our people and meets individual needs.
Each year we hold a We deliver superior customer service and business success Driver of the Year event, to promote driver safety and provide through our people, which is why it is important for us to reward some of our CSTMs with the opportunity to receive training appropriately, engage, listen to and develop our employees.
We have created and rolled-out a management development programme, which gives our employees We aim to be an exceptional employer: one that recognises the opportunity to progress their careers.
We also run a graduate talent and develops people to the best of their abilities.
One programme which plays an important part in developing talented way in which we try to achieve this aim is by offering a range people for our future.
We have also implemented appraisal of employee benets, including granting share options in the processes and succession plans for the business.
Company to each new employee as part of their employee benets package, so that all of our employees have the During the period, the average number of employees employed opportunity to own a part of the business.
The employee by the Group increased to 5,256 employees, excluding agency benets package also includes a pension, life assurance, workers 2011: 5,180. healthcare, an employee assistance programme, a staff discount on grocery orders, free delivery on certain days and We are committed to equal opportunities for all of our people, a discounted staff shop.
regardless of disability or background.
We value diversity and through our equal opportunities policy we are dedicated to creating an environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where everyone is treated equally regardless of age, colour, disability, race, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, political views or religious belief.
It is our policy that applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled all reasonable effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group continues.
It is our policy that the training, career development and promotion of a disabled person should, as far as possible, be identical to that of an able bodied person.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Stock code: OCDO www.
com 29 Root Camp: In July we partnered with Root Camp, an Charitable donations organisation providing unique and engaging camping cookery The Ocado 2012 Charity of the Year was Macmillan Cancer courses for teenagers.
The hands-on rural residential course Support, which was elected by our employees through the allows teenagers to source and prepare their food, both in annual employee survey.
During the period, our charity the kitchen and in the eld.
Root Camps aim is for students committee organised a number of events, which helped to raise to make more thoughtful decisions about how they feed 50,711 for Macmillan.
themselves and others, leaving them better equipped for independent life.
In addition to the money raised by the charity committee, Ocado made charitable donations during the period of 11,100 2011: Waitrose Foundation: We make donations to the Waitrose 29,250 which included a donation of 10,000 to 10:10 UK a Foundation through our Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose.
The private sector initiative committed to reducing carbon emissions as Waitrose Foundation is a partnership created in 2005 to help well as a donation to Cancer Research UK.
improve the lives of farm workers and smallholders in South Africa, Ghana and Kenya who grow produce for the Waitrose Social and community issues Foundation range of products.
We support the community through a number of initiatives.
Princes Charities Foundation: During the period, we made a Peace One Day: Peace One Day is a non-profit organisation donation of over 212,000 to the Princes Charities Foundation, which has established a ceasere and non-violence day that a group of 20 non-profit organisations, through our sales of occurs on 21 September each year.
They are committed to Duchy branded products.
raising global awareness of the peace day through education and encouraging the global community to take action.
In Political donations September, we worked with Peace One Day and Tamarinds No political donations were made by the Group to any political Alfred Prasad to create the Sri Lankan Love Cake recipe to party, organisation or candidate during the period 2011: nil.
encourage families across the UK to unite for peace in the kitchen.
This was included in the Peace One Day Primary Education Resource sponsored by Ocado and was rolled out to schools across the UK as part of the national curriculum.
CSTM training at a Driver of the Year event at Rockingham Raceway CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
