BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OPHIR AIMS TO LEAD THE WAY IN RESPONSIBLE EXPLORATION MAKING A LASTING CONTRIBUTION TO THE COUNTRIES AND COMMUNITIES THAT HOST ITS OPERATIONS.
OPHIRS CORE COMMITMENT the site to its original condition as part of its commitment Ophir is committed to establishing and following to close down the drill site and exit from Uganda in a the highest standards of Corporate and Social responsible and ethical way.
Responsibility CSR across the Group.
CSR is a In all cases Ophir leads with high standards and best fundamental part of Ophirs business and practices.
When the Group is shooting seismic or drilling as with all core activities the Group follows the same offshore, it communicates and follows up fully with all principles of determination, innovation and excellence.
local villages to ensure full project close out.
This forms Ophir aims for best practice wherever it operates part of Ophirs strategy to build and maintain good acting in an ethical, responsible, apolitical, independent relations with all the coastal communities.
and transparent way at all times.
In line with the Group-wide HSE policy, before initiating Ophirs commitment to CSR not only plays an important any exploration project Ophir conducts comprehensive part in managing and mitigating risks but moreover and integrated Environmental Impact Assessments reects its belief that responsibly exploring for oil and EIAs.
Ophir repeats these assessments at each stage gas to the highest international standards is the right of the project using recognised consultants and thing to do.
As part of this process Ophir consults with Ophir encourages all its employees and contractors local authorities, NGOs and communities to ensure the to work to the highest CSR standards.
Group complies with both industry best practices and any local regulations and guidelines.
The Group focuses CSR activities on four key areas: Environment initiatives Healthcare initiatives People initiatives Community development initiatives This year Ophir has expanded its reporting to include all services companies and contractors employed on our projects.
ENVIRONMENT Ophir is committed to meeting all its environmental obligations and to limiting its environmental impact wherever it operates.
Environment highlights Ophir applies the same high international standards and best practices for the environment wherever it operates, taking into account each local situation.
In Uganda, where Ophir acquired assets as part of its purchase of Dominion Petroleum Ltd Dominion, the Group worked closely with the Government on the clean-up of a previous drilling site to international best practice standards.
Ophir is in the process of returning WWW.
COM 34 BUSINESS REVIEW 01 Managing waste locally The Group focuses CSR activities on four key areas: In Equatorial Guinea, Ophir was the first oil and gas Environment initiatives operating company to use a local incinerator to handle Healthcare initiatives waste from its offshore and onshore operations.
Ophir People initiatives approached the local facility, ensured it was properly tested and licensed and that it met Group HSE standards Community development initiatives and began using it.
This eliminated the financial costs and environmental impact of transporting the waste to another more distant site for processing while also supporting the locally owned and operated business.
HEALTH AND SAFETY It is paramount that Ophir puts health and safety first and carries out all its operations in accordance with local and international health and safety best practices.
Ophir expects all its employees and contractors to work to the highest HSE standards.
The Group also expects subcontractors and suppliers to provide a safe and healthy working environment for their employees and to provide appropriate training and protective equipment.
Regular checks are carried out to ensure HSE compliance.
These standards are regularly reviewed by Ophirs HSE Committee, which takes responsibility for monitoring Group-level health, safety, security and environmental HSSE risk assessments.
In addition, the Committee reviews reports on serious accidents and fatalities to ensure that management is responding appropriately.
The Committee also ensures the Company is fully compliant by commissioning periodic independent audits on HSE matters.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 35 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Reorganising Group-wide HSE Ophir provides all staff and contractors who are In 2012, with the help of an expert external consultant, working in high disease risk areas appropriate Ophir reorganised and harmonised to a high standard education, prevention kits for testing and medicine.
the way it manages HSE across the business.
As a result The Groups offices in Gabon and Equatorial it has further upgraded procedures and policies and Guinea have also implemented mosquito hasapplied these consistently across the Group.
Acomprehensive suite of new documentation sets The Group provides internationally accredited driving outfor everyone, both employees and contractors, howOphir approaches HSE and spells out clearly the and first aid courses to all local employees as part GroupHSE expectations.
of acomprehensive training programme tailored for thestaff.
Road Traffic Accidents RTAs are widely The new approach covers every aspect of Ophirs acknowledged worldwide as a major risk that can be HSE functions, from drilling risk assessments to crisis effectively mitigated using simple measures such as management, and applies to everyone.
Training is a key driver training.
aspect and Ophir has been educating everyone on their responsibilities in line with its commitment to making PEOPLE Ophir relies on and values the skills and expertise of its high HSE standards part of the everyday Group-wide Ophir culture.
They are at the heart of the Groups success and Ophir recognises the importance of looking after them Ophir applied the new approach to its drilling and developing their potential.
programme in Equatorial Guinea in the summer of 2012, where it drilled three wells in Block R Tonel, Fortuna People highlights Across its operations Ophir employs local people East and Fortuna West.
The wells were all drilled successfully with no major HSE incidents recorded.
wherever possible and looks to train and develop them Thedrilling programme was followed up with a major so they can realise their potential and contribute as review in November where Ophir rened the entire much as possible.
This includes structured development approach to HSE ahead of rolling it out across the Group programmes for key staff and educational sponsorships.
while taking into account local differences.
Through annual reviews Ophir looks at how all its people Ophirs HSE team is based in Dar es Salaam and can develop in their roles to provide value to Ophir and inLondon.
to increase their skills and performance.
The objective isto help individuals advance in their interests and the Health and safety highlights interests of Ophir through a combination of on the job In 2012 Ophir had no lost time incidents LTIs at any experience, external training and internal development.
Ophir places great emphasis on the safety and wellOphirs operated activities included drilling three wells being of everyone who works for the Group.
As in other inEquatorial Guinea, three seismic programmes in key areas of its business Ophir encourages continuous Gabon, a further two seismic programmes in Kenya improvement.
To this end in 2012, as part of its Groupandone in Tanzania.
wide reorganisation of HSE, Ophir further developed its Ophir continued to provide maritime security in duty of care services for employees and contractors.
Tanzania and Kenya in response to offshore security This includes procedures and services for medical risks, notably piracy.
Working closely with the naval evacuation, safety and security and travel tracking.
forces of each country, Ophir meticulously plans In November 2012, Ophirs Board visited several and executes full offshore security plans to protect oftheGroups CSR initiatives and reviewed certain personnel and assets.
There were no security incidents HSEprocedures in Tanzania.
COM 36 BUSINESS REVIEW 01 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Zero lost time incidents Ophir is proud to contribute to the development of the local communities where it operates and to have a sustainable positive impact.
To this end, Ophir takes a 0 highly collaborative approach, working closely with all stakeholders to identify and carry out activities that benefit communities sustainably and for the long term.
Community development highlights In 2012 Ophir established a consistent Group-wide approach to community development.
It is based on a bottom-up needs analysis carried out with the local community to identify the best t for laying the foundation of Ophirs contribution in order to build progressively from a solid base and make a valuable difference.
Ophir focuses on three core areas for this foundation: medical, education and social.
In Tanzania for example, Ophir has built rooms in a local primary school and donated desks, text books and computers.
In January 2012 Ophir held an art competition in Mtwara, Tanzania for primary school students to learn about the oil and gas industry and its benets to Mtwara and the community.
Students were given the chance to express their knowledge and thoughts of the industry through art.
Ophir has been active in Tanzania for a number of years.
The Group has invested in developing the Mtwara port as an international oil and gas supply base, a project which is bringing significant employment to the surrounding region.
The project was backed up by a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment.
Other schemes Ophir has supported in the Mtwara port town include the Mtwara local clinic for women which is run by Benedictine nuns.
The clinic provides support, education and facilities for local women and new-born babies.
In Equatorial Guinea, Ophir contributes to the ITNHGE Programme, a collaborative educational initiative run CASE STUDY for adult students in Equatorial Guinea.
Community Development Ophir also sponsored the construction of a nursery Funding health care in a remote area school in the village of Ebein Yenkeng in the Niefang In 2012 construction of an accommodation site for Region, Central South Equatorial Guinea.
Stage 1 has the doctors and nurses working at the Tchisseka been completed: stage 2 is progressing.
Health Care Centre was completed.
Located in the remote village of Tchisseka, Brazzaville, Congo and The Group has also acquired and installed electricity funded by Ophir Congo Marine IX Limited and joint generators into hospitals in Evinayong, Kogo Mbini venture partners Kufpec Congo Marine IX Limited, and Acurenam.
the Centre provides much needed health care for the local community, and the accommodation provides a much needed place to stay for the people working there.
CASE STUDY People Improving the skills of local people Ophir tailors the training of its people and contractors totheir particular needs and the local needs of the business.
In Equatorial Guinea and Gabon Ophir ran acomprehensive training programme for staff includingEnglish language courses and IT and word processingclasses.
