THE YEAR IN REVIEW Corporate and Social Responsibility The Oxford 24 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Instruments brand and company values are at the heart of the Groups approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR OUR VALUES OUR BRAND IDENTITY In 2011, we announced our three year plan for the business which we called our 14 Cubed Plan.
The objectives of this strategy are to achieve 14% Return on Sales and 14% revenue growth per year by 2014.
Supporting this strategy we have introduced a Business Improvement Plan with a set of Key Performance Indicators focused on our growth target.
For more information, see Our Strategy on pages 8 and 9 INCLUSIVE WE BELIEVE PEOPLE MAKE Our CSR strategy is focused on the We listen and engage with THE DIFFERENCE following key issues: customers, colleagues, WE MEET OUR CUSTOMERS shareholders and partners U Business Ethics NEEDS THROUGH for mutual success.
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY U Customer focus and service TRUSTED AND SERVICE We build long term U Employee Engagement, WE USE INNOVATION TO relationships based on Diversity and Inclusion TURN SMART SCIENCE INTO integrity, trust and respect.
WORLD CLASS PRODUCTS U Health and Safety INNOVATIVE & WE HAVE EXPERIENCE TO PROGRESSIVE U Supplier and Partner RELY ON AND INTEGRITY Engagement We bring skill, experience TO TRUST and openness to new ideas U Sustainability environments to address the needs of the and communities 21st Century.
U Communications WHOLEHEARTED We approach what we do with passion, with care and with pace.
THE YEAR IN REVIEW 25 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 BUSINESS ETHICS Business Conduct & Ethics Code The Board is committed to maintaining Supporting policies the positive ethical standards the Oxford Our Code is supported by a range of Instruments brand is known for and policies which are regularly monitored expect the same commitment from our by the Board and updated and added to partners, employees, customers, suppliers whenever necessary.
Each policy gives and representatives.
We work ethically, detailed information on how to manage openly, responsibly and inclusively.
We sensitive issues once an assessment of strive for maximum transparency risk has been identied.
wherever possible: do not make political donations and do not tolerate any form U Business Malpractice of bribery, corruption or fraud.
We have in place a Business Conduct and Ethics U Anti-Corruption and Bribery Code which all employees are made aware of: U Human Rights U at the time of joining the Company: U Environment U through visibility on the Company U Health & Safety intranet: and U Communications including social U through visibility on the media and internet policy corporate website U Diversity and Inclusion This Code is supported by a comprehensive range of policies that the Board considers U Insider Dealing reect our commitment to maintaining the standards of conduct required by a U iiivi commercially responsible organisation.
MRI scanner repairs Our vision is to pursue responsible development and deeper understanding of the world through science and technology Nordlys EBSD detector for crystal structure analysis THE YEAR IN REVIEW Corporate and Social Responsibility continued 26 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND Employee Survey DIVERSITY & INCLUSION In 2011, we conducted our second global The Board recognises that our employees employee survey.
The results showed a are fundamental to our success.
As a high pleasing increase in employee engagement technology business, we have a highly from the first survey in 2009.
The skilled workforce and it is they who percentage of employees participating in deliver our strategic objectives.
The the survey also rose from 75% in 2009 to Groups aim is to ensure there are equal 83% in 2011.
We are proud that so many opportunities for all employees and that of our employees take the time to tell us such decisions are based on merit and do what they think.
Omniprobe and Omicron not take into account factors that are not Nanotechnology, acquired in June 2011, relevant such as, and without limitation, were also surveyed at the end of 2011 to gender, marital status, family measure the success of integration and responsibilities, sexual orientation or indicate any actions going forward.
preference, colour, race, nationality, Following each survey, local action plans religious belief, ethnic origin, disability, are drawn up with further input from age and unrelated criminal convictions.
employees and progress against them is regularly reported.
We believe that decision making is more effective when people from a range of Communication perspectives and backgrounds are Oxford Instruments business strategy is involved.
Therefore encouraging diversity communicated throughout the Group and is important to us.
is set out on our intranet for all employees to refer to.
This area of the intranet also Our business should reect our shows progress against this plan and the diverse customers and markets and business KPIs.
Added to this, all employees the environment in which we operate.
receive regular updates on the performance Our value of Inclusive reects this of their own business together with the diversity.
The Board recognises the performance of the Group at regular strategic importance of developing and brieng meetings.
Whenever appropriate, monitoring diversity within our video announcements or interviews with workforce.
The appointment of Dawn key senior managers that offer more detail Brooks Group Service Director as the on our performance are posted on the Groups Diversity Champion evidences intranet.
Periodically, the Chief Executive Successful apprenticeship programmes this focus of our CSR strategy.
writes a blog which summarises, at a top level, meetings with investors and analysts, We are committed to developing the and business strategy sessions.
This helps to potential of our existing employees as create understanding of the interests and well as bringing new skills into the Group concerns from an investor perspective.
We therefore work hard to provide the We invite feedback and suggestions environment in which they can all ourish.
at every point of communication.
The performance of all employees is measured against our values through an annual appraisal process and competencies framework.
Cryopump testing at our Austin facility THE YEAR IN REVIEW 27 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Training and Development The 2011 12 Employee Gain Share CUSTOMER FOCUS AND SERVICE During 2011, we introduced and scheme will pay up to 2% of salary.
The Group believes that customer rolled-out a new development training relationships are built on mutual trust, programme for senior and middle U 1% of salary will be paid if the respect and integrity, and that this management, helping to raise standards Group achieves at least 12% Return principle should govern all aspects of the to help and support our managers create on Sales ROS in 2011 12.
Our customer is at the heart of an environment of creativity and just over a 1% increase against the everything we do, and has led to an innovation.
The course modules include 2010 11 performance.
There must improved and more professional personal awareness, business strategy, also be no reduction in total sales approach to supporting them on a business processes and leadership.
continuing basis after the original sale.
During the year, 105 employees from across the world including our U 1% of salary will be paid if the Group The continued focus on the Voice recent acquisitions attended the achieves 14% sales growth against of the Customer in any new product programmes.
In the UK, we have a long the 2010 11 results.
Return on sales introduction or current product tradition of supporting apprenticeship must be no less than for 2010 11. development ensures that the customer schemes which have resulted in high needs are at the core of our business.
quality young people contributing to In addition to the incentive scheme, we The success of new products introduced our business.
In 2010 and 2011 our offer employees extra benets in the form in 2011 12 supports this focus.
The apprentices won Apprentice of the Year of discounts on certain local activities, percentage of revenue that is made Awards and in 2012 one apprentice purchases, insurance, health and dental up of products launched or acquired won the 1st Year Apprentice Award cover etc.
For example, Oxford Instruments in the last three years is a key indicator from the Engineering Trust.
Planned is a sponsor of Oxfords Ashmolean of the vitality of our new product for introduction in 2012 is a new, Museum and regularly offers free tickets to development and has increased from international graduate programme that exhibitions for all UK employees.
In the UK, 34% in 2011 to 44% in 2012. reects the global nature of the Group Germany, North America and Japan, and will contribute to increasing diversity discounts for local and national shops in our management teams of the future.
Employee Incentives The annual Chairmans Awards for We recognise that communication of our Innovation which recognise and reward strategy and performance is not enough innovation in its broadest sense have also to motivate and reward the contribution been realigned with the Business our employees make to the business.
It is Improvement Plan so that entries are important that our highly skilled and more closely aligned with the brand and educated workforce receive a share in the the business, strategy and Key success of the business.
In addition to the Performance Indicators.
The continued regular management and sales commission increase in the standard and number of schemes, in 2011 12 we introduced a Gain entries to these awards is evidence of the Share plan for all employees not in receipt engagement of our employees in this of an existing management bonus.
plan was linked to our 14 Cubed Plan and aligns employees interest with that of our shareholders.
Annual Chairmans Awards for Innovation THE YEAR IN REVIEW Corporate and Social Responsibility continued 28 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 HEALTH & SAFETY SUSTAINABILITY Sites worldwide The Group is committed to providing the The core element of our CSR policy is highest standards of safety in the sustainability.
This covers four areas: 33 workplace for our employees and to the continual improvement of our health and U ii safety performance.
The business has a robust succession planning, organisation and talent Responsibility for Health & Safety lies review process which the Board with the Board.
Charles Holroyd, an reviews at least once a year.
This Executive Director, is responsible for process and a commitment to formulating the Groups H&S strategy developing skills and capabilities and objectives, reviewing performance ensures the long term sustainability against these objectives and for ensuring and future of the Group.
that key H&S issues are effectively identied and managed.
U i i} There are a number of European The Board reviews the H&S performance directives aimed at benefitting the of the Groups operations at each environment that are complied with meeting.
All Group businesses regularly by the Group.
Such directives include report progress on H&S issues to the the Waste Electrical and Electronic Group Health, Safety and Environment Equipment WEEE Directive, the Manager who is responsible for keeping Restriction on use of Hazardous Charles Holroyd, and consequently the Substances RoHS Directive, the Board, informed of serious issues.
The Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation Group Health, Safety and Environment and Restriction of Chemicals REACh Manager is responsible for auditing each Directive and the Energy use of site annually.
Reportable accidents dened as over 3 U `V days absence per 1,000 employees fell Many of the Groups products and from 7.0 in 2010 11 to 3.8 in 2011 12. services provide solutions which help address the global issues of Employees are kept informed of current environmental control and Teslatron Cryogen free magnet system H&S issues through information provided protection, and energy conservation.
Members For example, our hand-held XRF include staff from all areas of the analysers are used in the analysis of business and meet on a regular basis.
hazardous substances in soil and our microanalysis systems are used in the In addition, information on health and detection of asbestos bres.
We are safety matters is published on the Group continually looking for new intranet, notice boards and in monthly applications for existing technologies cascades and quarterly business reports.
to support the growing need to Employees are actively encouraged to protect the world and the people suggest improvements that can be made who live in it.
in working conditions and practices.
Triton Cryogen free dilution refrigerator THE YEAR IN REVIEW 29 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 U i7 Vi EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL Every site has an Energy Champion COMMUNICATIONS who is responsible for implementing Our communications strategy is aligned plans to reduce its carbon footprint.
with our CSR objectives both internally 30,000 Each site reports its monthly energy and externally.
As stated above, our consumption and reduction intranet is the primary source of service calls per year activities.
We have reduced the information for all employees, but we energy consumption per million also use a whole range of communication revenue from 77.5MWh million tools including informal sessions, revenue to 62.3MWh million company meetings, notice boards and revenue during the year, a 20% open forums.
We strive to maintain good reduction.
The 14 Cubed business relationships with all forms of media, improvement plan targets 5% a year sponsors and local communities.
In 2011, we introduced a trial set of social Taking the acquisitions into account media programmes which included the our actual energy consumption use of Twitter, YouTube and Facebook.
increased during the year, as would This has proved very successful in be expected.
However, excluding the supporting new product launches and acquisitions actual energy consumption brand awareness and will be rolled-out fell during the year by around 160MWh, companywide in 2012 13.
Use of social pointing towards a more efficient use media in the Group is governed by the of energy.
Highlights of note include Social Media Policy.
the reduction of 400MWh of gas at the Carteret site, a 15% reduction, and SUMMARY also the reduction of 160MWh of Our Corporate Social Responsibility gas at the High Wycombe site, a strategy in 2012 and beyond will maintain 20% reduction.
the focus on CSR in the strategic decision making process and business All major sites have a responsibility performance.
We will continue to meet to recycle waste materials including our customer needs through advanced cardboard, paper, wood and metals.
technology and premium service and we Employees are encouraged to recycle will maintain a wholehearted paper, packaging, bottles and cans.
commitment to our employees, ii `v ii ` ` customers, partners, local communities All corporate literature is printed on and shareholders to conduct our business environmentally friendly paper using in an ethical and sustainable manner.
Forest Stewardship Council FSC accredited printers.
This, together with the vegetable oils used to coat the paper, means that the documents Jonathan Flint are bio-degradable and recyclable.
June 2012 There is a dedicated area of the Intranet which regularly updates all employees on the progress we make on all aspects of sustainability.
Plasma Technology tools for photovoltaic devices
