OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 3 Our impact on society 39 We also believe that the wider private sector has CASE STUDY animportant contribution to make in developing The Learning Curve education and learning policy.
We supported and helped fund in 2012 the Global Business Coalition This year, we supported the Economist Intelligence forEducation.
The aim is to help focus thewider Unit EIU in the development of The Learning Curve.
business community on helping tackle the challenges The initiative brought together in one place a wide faced by developing countries to promote learning: range of data sets designed to enable researchers http: gbc-education.
org about-us and policymakers to correlate education outcomes with wider social and economic impact more easily Doing informed business than ever before.
As international benchmarking of education systems has become ever more prevalent, The FT Group is the leading provider of essential the Learning Curve has the potential to add to information, insight and analysis to the global business ourunderstanding of what successful education and opinion-forming community.
Access to trusted systems look like and how success can be achieved: and informed information is the basis on which thelearningcurve.
com businesses make effective decisions.
The FT plays a unique global role in providing that information.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE Under the current responsible business framework atPearson, we focus on the three areas where we believe we have a unique opportunity to make a positive impact literacy, learning outcomes and competitiveness.
In addition, we adopt a broad and holistic denition of responsible business that captures a series of priorities Contributing to debate that are common across many industries and individual companies.
These include commitments to: We are committed to playing an active role in helping Deliver against stakeholder expectations on the key shape and inform the global debate around education area of climate change and to seek to make better use and learning policy.
With the 2015 deadline for achieving the Millennium Development Goals and Education for All Goals fast Extend our principles on labour standards, human approaching, it is certainly time to take stock on the rights and environmental responsibility to include role that education has played and should play for the oursuppliers and business partners.
We have joined with a range of organisations Ensure that our products and services are inclusive to as an active member of the Global Compact on those with reading disabilities, appropriate in content to Learning.
Ways we are helping include contributing the age and location of the student and are safe to use.
todeveloping and agreeing common metrics to measure the success of the Global Compact: Provide a safe, healthy workplace, where our www.
edu learningmetrics employees are able to realise their own individual potential and aspirations and where there is respect We are active participants in the Global Partnership for their privacy, dignity and life outside work.
for Education, having been one of the first companies Provide opportunities for Pearson people to be good to join the initiative and make a pledge at its citizens and to get involved in their local communities.
GPE brings together over 50 developing countries, donor governments, international organisations, the private sector, teachers, and civil society NGO groups to support developing countries with their education sector plans through financial assistance and technical expertise: www.
org 40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our impact on society continued Highlights of our activities in 2012 include: Pearson and the FT committed to a $1m three-year rainforest partnership in Colombia.
We also Environment: Climate change and avoiding deforestation continued to invest in Woodland Carbon offsets offered by the Woodland Trust in the UK and in a Climate change remains a focus for us as one of the Nature Conservancy Council forest offset project most serious issues facing the planet.
Minimising our inthe United States.
own environmental impact is not just the right thing todo: it is fundamental to our future as a sustainable The Financial Times has reduced the volume of business and helps deliver cost savings.
newsprint and magazine papers it uses by over 50% infive years.
A key initiative has been to reduce the We continue to be climate neutral, a commitment base weight of the papers used.
which focuses the company on carbonreduction.
CASE STUDY Pearson is preparing for the introduction of mandatory Greenhouse Gas reporting in 2014.
We have just Tom Delay, beenaccredited against the Carbon Trust Standard Chief Executive, Carbon Trust globally one of only two companiesthat currently As only the second organisation hold that status.
ever to achieve global certication Our second focus area is forests.
As a purchaser to the Carbon Trust Standard ofpaper and newsprint for our books, magazines byno means an easy task Pearson REDUCING CO2 YEAR ON YEAR andnewspapers, security and sustainability of is demonstrating real leadership in supplyarevery important to us.
We have focused how to measure, manage and reduce onactively encouraging responsible forest carbon emissions year-on-year.
management and being more efficient inhow we usepaper.
Our customers, our people and our communities Pearson was named the 32nd largest purchaser ofrenewable energy in the United States in the Responsible business practice cuts across all aspects USEnvironmental Protection Agency Green Power of our company and our focus is to integrate this into Partnership list.
We offset 100% of the electricity the way we manage our businesses.
This benets our weuse in North America through the purchase customers, suppliers, the people that work at Pearson ofwind power credits from across the United States and the communities in which we operate.
and have invested in a project to install solar panels Highlights of our activities in 2012 are: inschools inCalifornia.
Our UK buildings where weare responsible forpurchasing utilities are also Pearson continued with its programme of Student powered bygreen electricity.
Advisory Boards, providing an opportunity for students to input and influence our strategy in return Pearson came top in the 2012 Corporate Renewable for mentoring and company internships.
Energy Index CREX produced by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
We were one of 35 global companies Building on Pearson operations in the UK becoming to achieve a maximum score of 100%.
accredited against ISO 18001, the international health and safety standard, a two-year project to review Pearson businesses in the UK and Australia are andupdate our global approach to health & safety certified against ISO 14001, the environmental management was started in 2012. management standard.
Pearson in the US has been included in Working In the US, Pearson facilities are focusing on securing Mother magazines 100 Best Companies list for its LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental twelfth year.
LEED recognises excellence inthe design, construction, and operation of high The Pearson Diversity Summer Internship Programme performance green buildings.
Over 800,000 sq ft won the Widening the Talent Pool category in the across six Pearson buildings are LEED certified.
We now have 2.3MW in on-site renewable energy assets solar panels and wind at our facilities.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 3 Our impact on society 41 Providing an opportunity for our employees to share Values, principles and behaviour in the success of the company through owning a part The bedrock of corporate responsibility is the culture of it is important to us.
Over 37,000 people in of the company.
We are dened by our values in 98countries have the opportunity to acquire and hold everything we do, we aspire to be brave, imaginative Pearson shares through participation in our employee and decent.
Our values are underpinned by our Code of Conduct Pearson, alongside charity partnerBooktrust, won that covers, among other things, individual conduct, a2012 Lord Mayors Dragon Award in the education the environment, employees, community and society.
category for the Booktime programme.
We make sure everyone is aware of and understands The Financial Times seasonal appeal raised $4.89m the code.
Once a year, everyoneworkingfor Pearson on behalf of The Global Fund for Children, acharity gets a copy from the CEO, either electronically or on working to transform the lives of the worlds most paper and is asked to read it.
Everyone is asked to vulnerable children.
confirm that they have read it, understood it and that the company complies with it and, as a further check, CASE STUDY itis mandatory for over 2,000 of our most senior The Pearson Foundation peopleto respond to that request.
The code forms apart of induction and an online training module is The Pearson Foundation is an independent charity available.
If anyone has concerns, these can be raised that aims to make a difference by promoting literacy, with a line manager or through afree, condential learning, and great teaching.
The Pearson Foundation telephone line website.
is the charity partner of choice for Pearson and we are its major funder.
Three highlights from the Pearson has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery Pearson Foundation year in 2012 were: and corruption.
Our policy introduced in 2011 sets out our standards: we carry out risk assessments and have The launch of Five Things Ive Learned.
The a network of designated managers across the business project shares the thoughts of education leaders responsible for compliance with our policy.
drawn from decades of real-world experience and insights about learning, teaching, and helping We are committed to making sure our people others.
org understand how we are doing as a company, including how world trends might affect both them and the Read for the Record broke two world records.
This means providing comprehensive Nearly 2.4 million people read Lady Bug Girl relevant information in a variety of ways including andthe Bug Squad on the same day with almost regular presentations from senior executives and 400,000 of them reading the book online at consulting where appropriate so that we can learn www.
Read for the Record andtake into account the views of our people.
isrun inpartnership with the charity Jumpstart.
We will always aim to seek the best candidate for BridgeIT, a partnership between the Pearson arole: career progression will be without regard for Foundation and Nokia has reached over 1 million race, gender, age, physical ability, religion or sexual children and their teachers across ten developing orientation: and we will continue to monitor and and emerging countries.
BridgeIT uses mobile benchmark our progress on diversity and inclusion.
phones to deliver professional development materials and educational resources to teachers.
