OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 6 Financial statements 107 1.
Accounting policies continued The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in m. Derivative financial instruments continued determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are provision for income taxes.
There are many designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax in the income statement, together with any changes in determination is uncertain during the ordinary course the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for attributable to the hedged risk.
anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of The effective portion of changes in the fair value of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final derivatives that are designated and qualify as net tax outcome of these matters is different from the investment hedges are recognised in other amounts that were initially recorded, such differences comprehensive income.
Gains and losses accumulated will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in equity are included in the income statement when in the period in which such determination is made.
the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised immediately in finance income or finance recognised.
In particular, significant judgement is used costs in the income statement.
when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated should be recognised with consideration given to the as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classified timing and level of future taxable income together with at fair value and any movement in their fair value is any future tax planning strategies.
recognised immediately in finance income or finance o.
Employee benefits costs in the income statement.
Pension obligations The retirement benefit asset and n. Taxation obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to the net of the present value of the defined benefit be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is balance sheet date.
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting method, on temporary differences arising between the estimated future cash flows using yields on high quality tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying corporate bonds which have terms to maturity amounts.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax approximating the terms of the related liability.
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to The determination of the pension cost and defined apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return on that it is probable that future taxable profit will be scheme assets.
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets, Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the experience adjustments on liabilities and changes in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than where actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not other comprehensive income.
be remitted in the foreseeable future.
The service cost, representing benefits accruing over Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income the year, is included in the income statement as an statement, except when the tax relates to items operating cost.
The unwinding of the discount rate on charged or credited directly to equity or other the scheme liabilities and the expected return on comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also scheme assets are presented as finance costs or recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
