Directors report Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Economic conditions The Group does have exposure to reduced economic activity, ination Economic conditions could deation and the impact of the current materially affect the Groups Eurozone uncertainties.
South West Waters revenues are economically regulated through the price review mechanism and Viridor has a diversied revenue stream which includes exports to countries such as China and India whose economies are more buoyant than the UK and Europe.
Examples of specic areas of impact are: South West Waters revenues can be In addition to existing debt reduction impacted by higher bad debts and strategies such as WaterCare, Restart customer affordability.
and the Fresh Start Fund, which are kept Q under review, the company continues to implement new initiatives to improve and secure cash collection, including the use of third party collection agencies and introduction of a new billing and collection business Source Contact Management.
The Governments commitment to tackle unfairness issues for the companys bill payers, where 3% of the population pay for 30% of the UKs bathing waters, has also moved forward with legislation passed for a 50 reduction in bills for householders from 2013 14.
South West Water has 73.4% of its The financial impact of changes in domestic customer base metered customer demand are mitigated through and as a result the revenue from the regulatory Revenue Correction Q these customers can be more volatile Mechanism, whereby shortfalls in revenue from changes in usage which can in one five year regulatory pricing period be affected by a number of factors are adjusted in the following period.
including: A number of the companys other income abnormal weather impacts streams are vulnerable to downturns in economic activity, particularly in Q increased water efficiency the property market affecting new recession impacting commercial connections, searches and mains customers.
Viridor has seen residual waste landll Viridors strategy is focused on growing and collection volumes reduce due in recycling and energy from waste where to the recession and the long-term margins per tonne are much higher than Q trend towards recycling and energy in landll.
Viridors commodity trading arm Under the terms of its customer supply VRM trades where the market is contracts and by management action most favourable.
However, Viridor Viridor has been able to offset more than K remains susceptible to global 50% of the impact of price reductions in economic demands and the recyclates.
weakness of the Eurozone is having a depressing effect on the prices of internationally traded recyclates.
A breakdown of the Eurozone would intensify the downward pressure on prices.
In addition competition for recyclables from other contractors via aggressive pricing has been a recent trend.
30 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Governance Financial statements Risk Commentary Mitigation Change The Governments spending Review Viridor provides best value services and has put pressure on local authority competitive procurement bids to its public services, including household waste sector customers.
Q recycling centre operations which is expected to have a short-term impact.
Finance and funding The Group may be unable to raise The Company has robust treasury policies sufficient funds to finance its activities in place which include always having preAccess to finance and funding or such funds may be only available at funded surplus cash and or committed Q costs may be adversely higher cost.
facilities to cover at least one years affected by perceived credit estimated cash ow and arranging for no rating and prolonged periods more than 20% of net borrowing to mature of market volatility or liquidity.
In addition in respect of There are covenant limits South West Water the economic regulator and restrictive obligations has a statutory duty to ensure that it is on borrowing and debt able to finance its functions in the normal arrangements.
The Group has to date obtained funding at lower effective average interest rates compared to many other companies in its sector and is well placed to meet the funding requirements of both South West Water and Viridor in the foreseeable future.
The Group had 1 billion of cash and facilities as at 31 March 2012 including over 0.5 billion of new renanced facilities sourced during the year.
Operating performance Poor operating performance for both South West Water or Viridor Poor operating performance could result in enforcement action, or a failure or interruption of prosecutions, loss of permits and civil our operating systems or the action which could all result in negative inability to carry out network publicity, regulatory penalties, loss operations or damage to of customer confidence due to poor infrastructure may have a performance and eventually, reduced material adverse impact on demand for services and increased both our financial position xed costs.
Within South West Water a major Specic measures taken by South West network failure or interruption may Water include: be suffered or the company may not Q t a number of schemes in place to be able to carry out critical network maintain water resources such as operations.
Operational performance pumped storage for certain reservoirs could be materially adversely affected and the promotion of conservation by a failure to maintain the health of measures and customer water the system or network which could efficiency measures cause South West Water to fail agreed t a Water Resources Plan prepared standards of service or specified every five years and which is reviewed quality standards.
annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
The current Water Resources Plan indicates that no new reservoirs are required before the planning horizon of 2035.
However, due to the impacts of climate change, this position is reviewed frequently Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Directors report Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Commentary Mitigation Change t established procedures and controls in place, as well as contingency plans and incident management procedures.
The company also maintains insurance policies in relation to these risks, although there can be no assurance that all or any of the costs associated with these risks would be covered or that coverage will continue to be available in the future t monitoring of significant assets by automated and remote operation and routine controls and operating procedures that are constantly kept under review.
Asset management techniques are employed to pre-empt the failure of assets to maintain stable serviceability and avoid regulatory penalties.
From 2011 12 a financial reward While the company has seen penalty could be applied to South improvements in customer service West Water at the next price review particularly through reduced written K under Ofwats Service Incentive complaints, there is uncertainty over Mechanism SIM.
This depends on South West Waters relative position in South West Waters customer service the industry.
However there is a strategy performance relative to the industry for 2012 13 in place to improve customer average over the remaining K5 service further.
Viridor operates in a competitive Sound policies and accredited procedures marketplace where price and service are in place with internal and external are key precursors to success.
inspections, to maintain operations and Q achieve performance standards set.
Capital investment South West Water may not carry The company does have a track record out its capital programme within the of delivering its capital programme in The failure or increased price limits and with the efficiencies accordance with regulatory requirements Q costs of capital projects or determined by Ofwat.
and progress is regularly monitored and acquisitions or joint ventures reviewed.
not achieving predicted revenues or performance could Within Viridor there are risks of project The company has experienced and have a material adverse effect delays, cost over-runs or contract dedicated project contract teams: detailed on both our financial position failure which could be as a result of due diligence on all projects, supplies, K and reputation.
failure or insolvency on the part of technologies and acquisitions is carried contractors or their subcontractors, out by experienced and qualied staff: or due to a new technology failing and wherever possible back-to-back performance requirements.
There agreements with and guarantees from is also a risk of overpaying for an suppliers are entered into.
With the increase in regular monthly reporting on performance Viridors project pipeline, Viridor on major contracts and post project recognises that this risk is increasing appraisals are carried out which all and is addressing it.
assist in being able to improve future performance.
32 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Governance Financial statements Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Competitive pressures Viridor is experiencing increased Viridor provides recycling and waste competitive pressures in a number management services which are locally A reduced customer base, of areas of its business including delivered services from locally managed K increased competition affecting in particular on recyclate volume facilities and a significant proportion prices or reduced demand for and prices, landll gate fees and of its revenue is contracted over the services could have a material bidding for Public Private Partnership medium or long-term.
With regard to adverse impact on our financial contracts PPPs.
Recycling has major competitive projects being pursued position.
been recognised as an attractive there are barriers to entry due to planning business by an increasing number permissions being difficult to obtain and of competitors.
Competitive pressures in respect of South West Water are referred to in the first risk set out at the beginning of this section.
Business systems There always remains a risk of The company has well developed interruption, failure or third party IT systems and continuity systems Information technology and intervention that could have a material in place.
The further impact of a L business continuity systems adverse impact on the operations of system failure or disruption to the and processes may fail which South West Waters business.
company has been reduced with the may cause material disruption refurbishment of the data centre at its to the Groups businesses and head ofce and the establishment of a could have a material adverse geographically separate alternative data impact on both our financial centre, which is hosted by a third party position and reputation.
Some of Viridors IT systems Viridor has increased its IT management require replacement, development and technical resources accordingly.
It or upgrading to meet the growing also has a comprehensive development Q requirements of the business and programme and plans in place to address in some areas new technology the deficiencies identied and seek to being introduced may not operate ensure business continuity in the event or perform according to stated of failure.
Forward-looking statements This Business review contains forward-looking statements regarding the financial position: results of operations: cash ows: dividends: nancing plans: business strategies: operating efficiencies: capital and other expenditures: competitive positions: growth opportunities: plans and objectives of management: and other matters.
These forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the future business prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever they occur in this Business review, are necessarily based on assumptions reecting the views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, as appropriate.
They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in the light of relevant factors, including those set out in this Group risk review section.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Directors report Business review Sustainability report Pennon is one of the largest environmental and resource management groups in the UK.
Sustainability is at the heart of our business.
The provision of high quality water and waste management services is fundamental to the well-being and sustainability of our society.
Ensuring the availability of plentiful clean water which is used wisely and not wasted, together with effective waste water treatment, is South West Waters business.
Transforming waste into a resource by recycling and generating renewable energy is Viridors business.
Substantial investment in our water and sewerage activities t manage Pennon Group as a sustainable and successful and infrastructure enables us to deliver both high levels of business for the benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders performance and service, as well as long-term security of supply.
t aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive In our recycling and waste management business we continue economic, social and environmental impact on the communities to invest in facilities and services to transform waste into quality in which we operate recycled materials and renewable energy, helping customers from t engage with all our stakeholders and foster good relationships all sectors to meet their own recycling and waste management with them objectives, while addressing the longer term strategic imperatives t strive for the highest standards of health and safety in the of resource efficiency, protecting the environment and preserving workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents and lost time natural resources.
t develop and motivate our employees, treat them fairly and We believe that a well-managed and responsible Group, with ensure that they are fully engaged in all aspects of the Pennon sustainability both at the core of its operations and fundamental Groups objectives to its business philosophy, will deliver strong performance and lasting value for our stakeholders.
We contribute to the well-being t aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that contribute of the communities that we serve, and of the environment in which to climate change, and develop climate change adaptation we operate.
Our commitment to sustainability is embedded in strategies our operational and business practices, our relationships with our t aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention and stakeholders, and in our long-term strategy.
Pennon was delighted that this commitment was recognised Key environmental issues when the Group won the Achievement in Sustainability award Climate change and resource efficiency at the annual PLC Awards in February 2012.
This award Climate change and excessive resource use are two fundamental recognises accomplishments in key areas of economic, challenges for society which are being addressed by developments environmental and social sustainability.
Judges highlighted our in the UKs water, waste and renewable energy policies.
Pennon performance in renewable energy power generation at our waste is proactively approaching these key issues with strategies that water treatment works and landll gas control, as well as our underpin the sustainable performance of the business.
funding for community and environmental projects.
Group programmes increase the resilience of both South West Our commitment to economic, social and environmental Water and Viridor by protecting our assets, reducing emissions, sustainability is embedded in our strategic objectives to: harnessing renewable energy and maximising materials recovery.
Demand for safe drinking water and water security, and for recycling, renewable energy and resource efficiency will continue to grow as climate change impacts start to make themselves felt.
Renewable energy and carbon reduction Both subsidiaries have detailed energy efficiency and carbon reduction plans in place.
Viridors five-year plan aims to increase energy efficiency by more than 20% by 2016, equivalent to an overall reduction of 4% in total emissions per annum.
South West Waters energy and carbon management strategies to 2030 include plans for a structured energy efficiency programme and ambitions to further develop and exploit opportunities 34 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Governance Financial statements South West Waters core operations also require considerable Green energy On-site Carbon amounts of energy to treat both drinking and waste water to generated electricity use in Disclosure high standards and to pump it around the region.
The cost of Gigawatt hours Pennon Group Project score South West Waters energy use is around 20 million a year, and GWh Gigawatt hours % around 80% of the companys carbon emissions are associated GWh with energy use, underlining the importance of energy efficiency in the business.
The companys ongoing pump efficiency and PowerDown programmes are helping to reduce energy use.
During the year Viridor achieved its target of three accreditations to the Carbon Saver Gold Standard, most notably one for the whole of its Scottish operating region.
This reected the achievement of a 10% absolute reduction in energy-related carbon emissions in Scotland over the last three calendar years.
South West Water continues its accreditation to the Certied Emissions Measurement and Reduction Scheme CEMARS.
Resource security In spite of two years of signicantly reduced rainfall, resulting in the Environment Agency declaration of an environmental drought in April 2012, South West Water has ensured security of supply by investing in its ability to transfer water and converting two former china clay pits into reservoirs.
This, together with our industry-leading leakage control, has led to the 15th year without waterrestrictions.
South West Water liaises extensively with Defra, other regulators South West Water South West Water and landowners to promote catchment management as a tool to improve raw water quality.
The companys agship environmental Viridor Viridor project Upstream Thinking includes moorland restoration projects on Exmoor and Dartmoor, and catchment sensitive Reassessed to include all imported electricity used and self-supplied renewable energy used on South West Water sites.
farming programmes to improve land management, delivered in partnership with the Westcountry Rivers Trust and the Devon and Cornwall Wildlife Trusts.
Defra endorsed the companys for renewable energy schemes.
The companys 2015 carbon approach in its Water White Paper published in December 2011, reduction target is to cut operational emissions from energy use and Upstream Thinking won the Partnership Initiative of the by 18% compared with 2009 10 levels, with further reductions Year category at the Water Industry Achievement Awards in targeted in the longer term in line with national strategy.
Pennon participates in the UK Governments Carbon Reduction Viridors range of services has changed to ensure they are aligned Commitment and has an ambitious strategy and programmes to the waste hierarchy that is enshrined in European and UK waste in place to continuously improve energy efficiency across the policy legislation.
This reects the overall environmental benets business.
In the first year of audited performance, we were ranked in the priority options for managing waste.
It gives top priority 230th out of 2,013 participating companies.
to waste prevention, followed by re-use and recycling.
Disposal Pennon also voluntarily participates in the internationally by landll is the least favoured option.
Viridor now transforms recognised Carbon Disclosure Project, coming 53rd out of the waste into valuable, high quality commodities wherever possible, 236 FTSE 350 companies that responded, with an improving using a range of treatment technologies, including advanced percentage score.
materials recycling facilities,  treatment, composting and household waste recycling sites, often combining Pennon is a net producer of renewable energy, largely due to Viridors power generation from its landll gas and energy from waste EfW operations.
In 2011 around 30% of renewable energy generated in the UK was derived from landll gas and municipal solid waste combustion.
Viridors landll gas power generation is now approaching peak capacity and will be replaced by increasing contributions from EfW and anaerobic digestion AD facilities.
South West Water is also increasing its renewable power generation capacity using hydro-electric, combined heat and power CHP from biogas, and solar and wind installations.
This overall generation capacity will continue to offset the Groups energy use.
Viridor invested 93 million in renewable energy and recycling plants during 2011 12.
It now has a generating capacity of 136MW.
It plans to have 300MW of installed capacity by 2016.
The Runcorn EfW plant currently under construction will be the largest waste-generated CHP plant in the UK, with high energy efciencylevels.
Peat bog restoration under way on Exmoor as part of South West As Viridor continues to expand its recycling capacity, so a growing Waters award-winning Upstream Thinking initiative.
proportion of its operations rely on energy-intensive processing equipment though recycling generally provides net carbon and energy benets.
