Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 55 Social and economic development Petrofacs relationship with the communities in which we operate is based on mutual benefit.
In short, we believe we should support the regions that support us.
World-class training Managing social impacts Social investment Working, as we often do, in developing In 2012, Petrofac agreed a new social Petrofacs social performance standard countries means we can add significant performance standard, which is mandatory in requires that its social investment economic and social impact to our host all projects where we are directly accountable programmeis built on credible and countries.
Our commitment to training and for managing social impacts.
employing local people, in particular, can help stimulate sustainable prosperity for entire The standard reects how our evolving These assessments, which involve communities.
Our training centre in Mary, business model, particularly the long-term consultation with local stakeholders, identify Turkmenistan, for example, trained 2,859 nature of contracts, is changing our social risks and impacts in each country.
staff from our South Yoloten project in relationship with the communities in which Following a social assessment, we aim to essential construction skills and health we operate.
establish a bespoke social investment plan andsafety in 2012. for the communities we operate in, reecting By the end of 2013, we aim for this social their specic priorities and needs.
In 2012, As well as developing our own staff, performance standard to be adopted by all asmentioned above, we completed an weprovide world-class training to projects and operations where Petrofac extensive social assessment on Mexicos employeesofother oil and gas companies.
hasdirect accountability for managing Magallanes and Santuario elds and Petrofacs 14training centres in seven socialimpacts or is contractually required developed a social investment programme, countries deliver around 200,000 training tomanage them.
We will report on our which reects its findings.
Ourexpertise is helping many progress against this commitment, as one build on this assessment to develop a state-owned companies develop their ofour KPIs, in our 2013 annual report.
long-term programme to deliver tangible ownnational oil andgas workforces to improvements and growth to local internationally recognisedstandards.
Our new social performance standard is communities.
In doing so, we will leverage supported by detailed implementation Petrofacs strengths, including local capability Wherever we operate, Petrofac strives to guidance documents.
In 2012, we nalised building and business development, to help bea positive presence and to minimise such documents on assessing social risks stimulate economic activity.
anynegative impacts of our operations.
In 2013, we will Thishas become particularly important, as add new guidance on stakeholder During the year, we invested US$1,006,617 the evolution of our business is increasingly engagement and land and resettlement.
Our support included: leading to long-term management contracts with national oil companies.
Our recent Our new social performance framework, t in Tunisia, providing business start-up Mexican production enhancement contract incorporating the standard and supporting training, supporting environmental awards, for the Pnuco and Arenque guidance notes, aims to deliver a clean-ups and funding urgent road safety elds, for example, will run for 30 years.
consistentapproach to managing social improvements.
For more about Tunisia, Asguests in host countries over many performance through credible, authoritative see our case study on page 56 decades, it is crucial that we manage our assessment, coherent planning and robust t in Mexico, refurbishing community centres, social risk by developing strong, trust-based implementation.
Reecting the central schools and recreational facilities, stakeholder relationships.
importance of international expansion in promoting cultural festivals, aiding ourgrowth strategy, the framework provides educational environmental initiatives and essential guidance for rolling out, and supporting a project to manage waste.
managing social risk, in each new territory.
In 2012, we updated our ethical, social and regulatory policy, which underpins the social performance framework, again to reect our changing business model.
