50 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility 51 Driving growth responsibly We are strengthening the way we measure, monitor and report corporate responsibility performance.
In 2012, as a step towards meeting Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines, we are focusing on the materialissues we believe matter most to our stakeholders.
52 People and resourcing Our growth strategy relies on having the right people in the right places at the righttime.
To achieve this, in 2012, we developed our performance management andrecruitment systems, strengthened our leadership cadre and began to evolve ourglobal human .
55 Social and economic development We aim to make a positive difference to the regions in which we operate by supporting local economies and communities.
In 2012, as Petrofacs strategy took usinto morenew geographies, on longer term contracts, we developed our approachto managing our social performance.
57 Ethics Petrofac aspires to the highest standards of ethical behaviour.
In 2012, we revised our Code of Conduct, enhanced our compliance systems and strengthened employee engagement on this issue.
58 Safety and security Petrofacs strategic entry into new territories can expose us to volatile social and political environments.
In 2012, complementing our wider social investment programme, our security experts worked to protect our people and assets and ensure operations proceeded smoothly.
For more on our approach to safety and integrity, seepages 28 and 29 59 Environmental protection We are committed to limiting the environmental impact of our global operations.
In2012, we revised our environmental policy to reect the new opportunities and risksof our two-divisional structure and evolving business model.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 51 Corporate responsibility Driving growth responsibly Working with the communities where we operate is an integral part of how we do business.
As a step towards the Global Reporting Our approach to Stakeholder Initiative GRI standard, this CRreport charts corporate responsibility engagement our progress against the material issues that For Petrofac, corporate responsibility CR is Following the publication of this annual we believe matter most to our stakeholders, a practical demonstration of our core values.
report, we intend to confirm the validity of including investors, customers, staff and civil Our value of being ethical is evident in our  material issues, society groups.
new Code of Conduct page 57, our focus viastakeholder engagement.
onquality is visible in the way we develop The material issues reect areas that are key our people pages 52 to 54, and our Although new in the context of our corporate to doing business responsibly and legally responsiveness is evidenced through reporting, wehave increasingly focused on andother matters that are integral to our theway we engage local communities engaging with stakeholders most directly strategic ambitions.
For instance, as shown pages55to 56. impacted byour activities, and such dialogue in the diagram below, safety and security has informed the way we plan and manage ispartofresponsible business behaviour, Although our values have always guided the programmes.
In 2012, for instance, our whereaseffective people and resourcing way we do business, our CR systems and sustainable development strategy in isastrategic driver.
processes have not always kept up with our Mexicowas drafted in close liaison with rapid growth.
Now, as an established FTSE ourcustomer and community groups and, Material issues were identied at a workshop 100 company, we are formalising our inearly 2013, reecting the increasing global in October 2012, which was led byour approach to CR to ensure it delivers the best consistency of our stakeholder engagement, external corporate sustainability advisers and results for our stakeholders and our business.
we undertook a stakeholder and socioattended by internal stakeholders from our This is particularly important now as, with our economic survey in Tunisia.
social performance, external affairs, health, strategy involving long-term Production safety, security, environment and integrity Enhancement and Risk Service Contracts, Such engagement is not only key to providing assurance, human resources HR, often in countries that are developing rapidly, stakeholders with what they want and need compliance and communications teams.
managing our social impacts to mitigate risk to know.
It also helps us manage social risk, and maximise benefit for stakeholders is improves our performance and is central to In line with best practice, and reecting our essential for our future growth.
achieving our long-term vision to be the aim to meet the GRI guidelines, we are worlds most admired oileld service company.
developing key performance indicators KPIs to monitor oursocial impacts.
This activity is Raising our still workin progress.
reporting standards In 2012, we agreed a roadmap towards achieving integrated reporting by 2015.
Theroadmap includes a number of key milestones and actions.
Addressing the strategic issues that underpin the delivery of our three growth priorities and our goal of more than doubling our earnings by 2015 Drivers of Growth People and Resourcing Social and economic development Adhering to local laws and voluntary Corporate Responsibility international standards Compliance Safety and Security | Ethical Conduct | Environmental Protection 52 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility People and resourcing Petrofacs ambitious growth plans rely on having the right people in the right places at the right time.
In 2012, our HR team worked closely with the business to meet these needs.
Our strategy of continued geographic Performance management Talent management expansion, increased offshore activity and the In 2013, Petrofac will roll out a standard The oil and gas industry continues to face growth of our Integrated Energy Services IES performance management system across anacute skills shortage in key technical business will continue to have a significant our entire business.
Our Group-wide talent impact on the composition of ourworkforce.
mean all employees follow the same process management strategy aims to address this in setting their objectives to encourage good challenge by developing and sourcing more In support of this, we need to increase further performance and ensure there is a clear and of our future managers and leaders internally, our employee numbers and develop and consistent link between corporate and rather than via external recruitment.
appoint many more outstanding leaders and individual objectives.
We believe this will help technical experts.
As well as having the right us to motivate our people, provide clarity The strategy works to identify critical roles skills, these individuals will also need to andalignment on what individuals and the and gaps alongside a clear view of the talent demonstrate a commitment to our values.
business must do to succeed and address pipeline, enabling us to focus development any areas of underperformance.
It will also activity and helping to identify where external To manage these challenges, as part of our enable us to use behavioural indicators to recruitment is required.
Our Leadership Fit for 2015 organisational improvement support and strengthen our Company values.
Excellence LE programme, which we programme, we focused on developing a launched in 2011 in partnership with the global performance management system In 2012, we ran a pilot of the new London Business School, is one of our core andestablishing a consistent recruitment performance management process, senior management development tools and process, linked to capability demand developing the model to reect lessons sits alongside a suite of other interventions.
planning, that will build Petrofacs brand and learnt.
In anticipation of the coming global reputation.
We are also working to ensure launch, we also drafted multilingual back-up ourHR organisation and all other support materials and implementation plans covering functions enable us to respond to our logistics, engagement, communications business objectives.
As part of this, a andtraining.
dedicated HR lead was appointed for our Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance ECOM division during the year, following the appointment of a similar lead for IES during 2011.
4,800 97% new staff joined of graduates hired since 2010 Petrofac in 2012 are still working for Petrofac Less 6% 243 than Percentage of Number of graduates Petrofac employees recruited in 2012 leftby choice in 2012 2008 104 2009 120 2010 107 2011 146 2012 243
