Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 57 Ethics We consider that behaving ethically, in accordance with one of our Group values, iseveryones responsibility.
Our Code of Conduct sets out the standards of behaviour that we expect from all our people and those who work for and withus.
At Petrofac, upholding the code is everyones business.
The booklet encourages employees and Establishing ethical new thirdparties to report breaches of the code businesses through various means, including our whistle Expansion into new territories is a pillar of our blowing line.
To this end, in 2012, we ran a growth strategy and embedding compliant three-month Group-wide communications business standards is a seminal step in campaign to raise awareness about Speak establishing new operations.
In 2012, Up, our phone and email service for reporting weassessed existing practices in our newest breaches.
Wealso increased the number of Petrofac location, Mexico, established free condential 24-hour national Speak Up compliance processes and systems and phone lines from three to 20, to ensure trained senior management in their upkeep.
increased access in different languages and The same process is now being undertaken geographies, in line with our operations.
in Nigeria and will be used as a template for establishing ethical business foundations in In Petrofac the compliance agenda is all future new geographies.
delivered by the businesses, under the guidance of the Compliance function.
We are mindful of the risks and prohibitions TheGroup compliance team sets that are associated with some of our projects policies, procedures and processes but in close proximity to countries subject to implementation, such as the identication international trade sanctions, such as and mitigation of compliance risks occurs During 2012, we revised our Code of Conduct Syriaand Iran.
In 2012 we hired a trade locally.
Inorder to understand the issues to incorporate best practice, reect new compliance manager to work exclusively thatmayoccur in the businesses, our two legislation and make it more aligned withour Turkmenistan based Yoloten project, divisions both have compliance managers, withtheincreasing risks that a company ensuring that all of our procurement and who reportto their respective Finance operatingin multiple jurisdictions encounters.
logistics activities were in compliance with SeniorVicePresident.
Innovations included Q&A sections, guidance existing trade sanctions and regulations.
on what is expected of employees and third OurGroup compliance function continues We continue to embed the standard for the parties, a new equal opportunities chapter, toadvise businesses working close to prevention of bribery and corruption that was explicit prohibition on the making of sanctioned states on our obligations.
For instance, facilitation payments and extended sections in2012, we honed our third party screening on working with third parties, covering process to differentiate between types anti-bribery efforts, conictsof interest and Transparency in reporting ofsuppliers, from joint venture partners to fair competition.
sub-contractors to those who work with We aim to be transparent and open in our Petrofacs third parties on our behalf.
We are signatories of the UN Wealsomonitored entries in the gifts and Global Compact UNGC.
Since signing up Protecting our reputation entertainments register that we introduced in2009, we have aimed to integrate the in2011.
Almost athirdof our workforce The new code, entitled Living Our Code, compacts ten principles in the way we do hasnow completed our e-learning willbesent to all employees and third party business.
In 2012, we conducted a UNGC  of bribery and suppliers in booklet form in early 2013. workshop with the management team of our corruption standard.
Distribution will be supported by an extensive new Mexican operations, which led to the communications campaign, guidance packs development of ten sustainability principles for managers andan expanded compliance for the national business.
section on the Company intranet.
Indicating the high-level support for the code, Group Chief Executive Ayman Asfari has written in the booklet foreword: Iexpect everyone tofollow our code.
Ourreputation as individuals and as a Company, and ultimately our success, depends on it.
58 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Safety and security In 2012, complementing our wider social investment programme, oursecurity experts worked to protect our people and assets and ensure operations proceeded smoothly.
Our ongoing security activity includes Safety regular briengs to the Board Risk Safety, as one of Petrofacs core values, is a Committee, monitoring all Petrofac cornerstone of everything we do.
We aim to geographies to ensure adequate security deliver safety across our operations by measures are in place, weekly country achieving excellence in the integrity of our updates and 24-hour emergency support.
assets, in company processes and systems, Contingency planning for evacuations and and in the skills and attitude of our people.
other emergencies remains a high priority.
For more on our approach to safety, During 2012, our security arrangements seepages 28 and 29. allowed us to manage challenges in severallocations.
Security Our risk-based Group security management Petrofacs security team works closely standard provides us with a consistent withthe business to protect our people approach to assessing risks and accordingly andassets and ensure operations proceed enables us to ascribe the relevant smoothly.
This is particularly important as, precautionary measures to mitigate with our growth strategy increasingly suchrisks.
takingPetrofac into new territories, weincreasingly work in volatile social Our security systems, like all areas of Petrofac andpolitical environments.
activity, are changing with the evolution of our Company.
Reecting the strategic expansion in our offshore business, in 2012, we drafted a new maritime security standard.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 59 Environmental protection Petrofac is committed to limiting the environmental impact of its operations, around the globe.
In November, our Planet Petrofac Our evolving environmental environment month involved thousands of programme staff at 25 locations in energy saving Building on the ISO 14001 accreditation of initiatives.
Increase environmental management systems at efficiency campaign educated and manyPetrofac locations, we are continuing encouraged employees to change their our oil spill response audit programme and behaviour, at home and at work, to reduce expanding environmental management energy use.
Complementing the staff auditsat key sites.
These audits are in programme, the business carried out audits addition to our regular internal inspections on five major sites to determine how carbon and ISO 14001 audits.
The audits built on previous energy-saving programmes: We were pleased to achieve an improved ourSharjah ofce, for example, has reduced rating in the worldwide Carbon Disclosure its energy use and spend by over one-third Project CDP, which encourages companies since 2010, a saving of almost US$390,000 to protect themselves from the impacts of see page 60. climate change and become more energy efficient.
Our score rose to 78, out of a possible 100, from 53 in 2011 and 36 the year before.
The CDP reports that scores above 70 indicate: Senior management understand the business issues related toclimate change and are building climaterelated risks and opportunities intocore business.
Increase efficiency campaign 201,675 tonnes of carbon emissions Lighting generated in 2012 a bright idea Replace your traditional light bulbs with energy saving bulbs as they are more 2008 185 efficient and can last up to three times longer than traditional bulbs.
