Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 53 Leadership development Local employment In 2012, we again ran core LE events in Petrofac is a multicultural business: our London and Dubai and have scheduled Board is made up of seven nationalities and further events for 2013. our workforce of more than 80.
This diversity enables us to reect our international We built on the programme by developing customer base and draw on a rich mix of and running further training modules for past culture and experience.
attendees in Advanced people skills and Finance skills.
We are now considering The diversity of our organisation is boosted other modules to add to this suite.
by our strategic commitment to employing people local to our operations, wherever We are also looking to extend the LE possible.
Eighty per cent of employees at our programme beyond individual leaders to new operations in Mexico, for instance, are include their wider teams.
We are piloting a Mexican, with four out of ten employees at group development initiative with IES our Magallanes and Santuario operation, in Developments Malaysia leadership team, Tabasco State, coming from the home state.
When Petrofac won its first Mexican before potentially rolling it out across the contract in August 2011, it had wider business.
This is one of a number of justone employee in the country, programmes in operation or design.
Global mobility itsMexico general manager, within While endeavouring to recruit locally, four months it had 140. thecomplex and widespread nature of Resourcing ourbusiness sometimes requires us to To build its Magallanes and Santuario To meet our strategic workforce expansion movepeople across borders.
In 2012, oilelds workforce so swiftly, Petrofac plans we recruit continuously and wefurther developed Group guidelines didnot just transfer staff from other systematically.
HR assesses the number and toensure international moves proceed operations.
Reecting its commitment to types of employees required in alignment smoothlyfor employees and their families: recruiting local people, it drew more than with our business plans through the assignees are treated fairly and consistently: 95% of its new employees from Mexico, application of a strategic forecasting tool.
opportunities for closer cost management Venezuela or Colombia, including half Itthen works with management to identify areactively pursued: and Petrofac complies ofthe senior management team.
In 2012, with necessary legislation in the home and ourrate of recruitment was sufficient to meet host countries.
We piloted our revised global Having recruited the new staff, Petrofac business needs, with the total number of mobilitypolicy in a number of locations in then worked hard to align them behind employees and long-term contractors rising advance of a planned 2013 launch.
the way we work, our core values and by around 17%.
oursafety culture and so ensure the elds transition, from our customer Promoting diversity and Staff retention, measured in terms of those PEMEX tous, could be undertaken leaving the Company by choice, was at a safelyandeffectively.
equality similar level to last year overall, with turnover To encourage equality across gender, race less than 6%.
Following the successful transition, and other differences, during 2012, we Petrofac has continued to recruit staff, developed a new diversity and inclusion During the year, we began to redesign our and win contracts, in Mexico.
The new policy will be supported by a core recruitment system technology.
Thiswill number of interventions in 2013, in tandem enable Company-wide consistency, while with the revised Code of Conduct.
The code being easily adapted to local service line itself, and an associated employee e-learning requirements.
This includes a new applicant module, both will have dedicated sections tracking system, which will allow us to ondiversity.
As well as being widely manage directly-sourced candidates more communicated to staff, the new diversity effectively.
The recruitment and applicant andinclusion policy will be shared with our tracking systems will be rolled out in 2013 recruitment suppliers, who will be required and will be linked to an improved user toalign with it when working on our behalf.
interface on the Companys website.
54 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Online, the Group team rolled out a more Our culture and values Employee engagement accessible intranet to our key geographies Petrofacs distinctive culture is key to our The skills shortage in our industry means and relaunched Petrofacs corporate website.
success, so we strive to ensure our people talented staff are always in great demand.
Further improvements to the website during continue to reect our culture and values Itis therefore good business practice, the year included rebuilding the careers aswe grow.
aswellas being true to our values, to treat section, the most visited part of the site, employees with respect and engage them tomake it more engaging.
Unique visitor The development of common, Group-wide inour Company.
numbers to the site rose by more than one HR processes, from performance quarter in 2012, with total visits reaching management to recruitment, is doing much Petrofac encourages employee share more than 1.5 million.
Print communication to create a unied company experience and ownership, believing it builds commitment focused on our quarterly global employee culture, while always reecting the need to and rewards our people for their part in our magazine, Petrofacts.
foster creativity and be true to the geographic success.
In 2012, 32% of our staff held dynamics in which we operate.
To reect, and develop, its growing our core values always plays a key part.
international prole, Petrofac created an Following our 2011 PetroVoices employee external affairs department, headed by survey, action plans addressed a broad anappointee with a strong background In 2012, we again held a high prole awards rangeof issues identied by staff, from inoiland gas industry communications and programme to celebrate staff who embody compensation and work-life balance to managing social impacts.
The EVE Excellence, Values, career development and safety.
Our next which incorporates ourcommunications and Energy Awards were presented at our annual survey will be launched in 2013. corporate responsibilityteams, will be joined leadership conference.
Achievements by amediamanager in 2013. showcased included the winner of the safety award, whose championing of safety helmet Communications microchips improved site monitoring and Effective communication of our values, raised safety standards and the winners of strategy and activity is crucial in aligning the responsive category, whose database Petrofac people with our vision.
innovation gives engineers around the Company access to a decade of technical In 2012, Group and divisional drawings and project equipment.
communications teams strove to engage all stakeholders with transparent and relevant communication via digital, print and face-to-face channels.
