Effective environmental management Environmental Management has always been a priority for the Group.
The Group is committed to upholding the highest environmental standards, as required by Russian legislation, and operating in line with accepted international best practice.
Russian environmental legislation Environmental Impact Assessments In line with this commitment, during H2 2012 The Group considers aiming for full In addition to these regulations, Russian the Pokrovskiy, Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn compliance with stringent Russian legislation requires an environmental impact mines all received accreditation of compliance environmental legislation to be a key assessment report OVOS report to be with the environmental management system component of its approach to drawn up as a part of the initial mining GOST R ISO 140012007 ISO 14001:2004. environmental management.
permitting process of a mining project.
With regards to the environment, the report Protecting biodiversity In accordance with Russian legislation, evaluates the current state of, and estimated The Group strives to be fully compliant with a mining company operating in Russia is impact of, the planned mining activities on a number of Russian laws and environmental required to obtain licences and permits from groundwater, rivers and streams, mineral requirements designed to limit the impact of the Russian authorities in order to conduct resources, land, soil, air and plant and animal industrial activities on local wildlife, habitats mining or exploration activities.
These licences life in the area.
Depending on the outcome of and fauna.
and permits may include certain limits and the OVOS report, a company may be required conditions aimed at safeguarding the to change the design of the proposed mine.
The Group uses monitoring data to assess the environment, protecting local wildlife and impact of its activities on plant life and wildlife, avoiding the inltration of harmful chemicals Environmental monitoring particularly wildlife in local rivers and streams.
into soil, air, or groundwater.
In line with Russian legislation, environmental Road reectors and warning signs are installed monitoring is conducted throughout the life on roads and the safe and responsible In line with Russian legislation, the Group holds of mine, from the exploration stage to disposal of waste, including food waste, the following permits, certicates and licences: decommissioning.
The Group is required to is monitored and controlled.
Fishing, hunting conduct extensive environmental monitoring or poaching, the driving of vehicles outside Licences and related permits to mine to ascertain any impact its activities may have designated areas and the ooding of forest natural resources: on groundwater, rivers and streams, soil, air, land is forbidden.
Land may only be cleared Licences and related permits to conduct plant and animal life.
Monitoring data is within the limits of the obtained licences and exploration activities: collected in accordance with the schedules permits.
The building of stockpiles and mining approved by the local state authorities and dumps is regulated.
In line with the Permits relating to the construction samples are analysed in Group laboratories, requirements of ICMC, bird scaring devices of processing plants, roads and other which are state-accredited.
are installed on the tailings dams at all the mine infrastructure: Groups mines.
Certicates of environmental safety in External audits hazardous waste management, including The Group is audited by the Russian Avoiding forest res licences for the handling of Class I-IV authorities to ensure compliance.
Large parts of the Amur region are wooded hazardous waste: These audits have also been supplemented and thus forest res could quickly spread if by external audits and assurance from not managed adequately, with potentially Permits for regulating the discharges  and approved devastating effects on wildlife and local and emissions into the atmosphere, consultancies, including minerals experts communities.
In response to this, the Group water or soil: Wardell Armstrong International in 2012 conducts regular re safety briengs.
All sites Certicates of accreditation for the and 2011 and cyanide experts Golder are equipped with a re engine and trained re ghters.
Mine managers are responsible for Groups laboratories.
Associates in 2009. regular monitoring to ensure compliance.
Appropriate re response procedures are in Alignment with international standards place and re drills are run regularly.
Oil and The Group is going beyond a legal fuel is appropriately stored to prevent leakages compliance-based approach to environmental and spillages and to diminish the risk of re.
management by aligning its current practices with  environmental standards, such as the International Cyanide Management Code ICMC.
2012 2011 2010 Licence violations 0 0 0 Environmental fines number 0 0 2 Environmental fines Roubles 0 0 7,000 Figures exclude IRC, which has separate HSE management systems.
2012 2011 2010 Category 1 minor 232 195 93 Category 2 considerable 0 0 0 Category 3 serious 0 0 0 Figures exclude IRC, which has separate HSE management systems.
60 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Rehabilitation Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Were cyanide procedures to fail, To date, the Group has not The Group currently monitors and reports the Group has in place medical and decommissioned any mines.
However, GHG emissions to the Russian authorities on environmental emergency response plans.
it is the Groups intention to ensure that after a regular basis as tonnes of emissions emitted.
Processing plants are tted with sensors decommissioning, the landscape will be The GHG monitored and reported include which monitor the presence of cyanide restored as far as possible to its original state.
carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and some compounds.
If high concentrations are All operating mines are subject to an on-going hydrocarbons.
The Group is currently aligning detected, supply-and-exhaust ventilation rehabilitation programme which is compliant its current reporting procedures with UK will automatically be turned on.
The Group with regulatory requirements.
Closure plans legislation on carbon reporting, which is conducts emergency response drills.
are prepared as a part of the initial permitting expected to come into force later this year.
process and these are updated as required.
The Group anticipates that GHG emissions Petropavlovsk is aligning its use of cyanide will be reported in line with this legislation with the International Cyanide Management Water consumption in the 2013 Annual Report.
As part of this commitment, In accordance with Russian legislation, in 2009, Petropavlovsk appointed an all Group operations hold licences setting Climate change independent external consultant, water usage quotas and where water may The Group recognises the importance of Golder Associates, to conduct a gap analysis and may not be obtained from.
Pit water is addressing climate change and is aspiring audit of the Groups cyanide usage and puried before it is discharged.
The Groups to review the risk climate change poses management systems against ICMC.
RIP plants run using recycled water, to its operations.
The report concluded that Petropavlovsks reducing the amount of water extracted cyanide management systems are from local sources.
Environmental performance in 2012 comprehensive and compliant with Russian In 2012, the Group operated in accordance regulations.
However, Golder Associates Waste management with its licence conditions.
did recommend a number of relatively minor In compliance with Russian legislation, changes to bring operations in line with the ICMC requirements.
An HSE audit conducted a waste management programme is agreed During 2012, all the Groups hard-rock mines in 2011 by Wardell Armstrong International with regulatory authorities and implemented received accreditation of compliance with the noted that the improvements recommended at all Group operations.
The programme environmental management system GOST R by Golder Associates were being outlines waste disposal standards and ISO 140012007 ISO 14001:2004. implemented and concluded that cyanide stipulates limitations on waste produced, is well managed by the Group.
Data on waste is The Group has adopted a grading system collected and logged in registers.
This data for environmental incidents, based on their POX technology forms part of the overall monitoring real or potential impact.
Category 1 incidents Arsenic, which is normally present in information, which is supplied to local are classied as temporary lapses in normal refractory ores and concentrates in the authorities annually for their review.
environmental procedures, which, once form of arsenopyrite FeAsS, is a hazardous identied, may be remedied with no waste component, which requires special Preventing atmospheric pollution detrimental impact on the environment.
anti-contamination measures to ensure safe The Group uses purication systems, anti-dust There has been a steady increase in such disposal.
Disposal of arsenic waste products equipment and other protective facilities to incidents since 2010.
This is attributed to is strictly regulated by both Russian and prevent the discharge of harmful substances the significant expansion of the Group over international environmental legislation.
All emission points, such this timeframe.
as laboratories, crushing sites, boiler houses, The POX process converts the majority of and smelters are equipped with gas purifying Cyanide management arsenopyrite into scorodite FeAsO42H2O, equipment, which is monitored on a regular Gold is currently extracted at Petropavlovsks four hard-rock mines using conventional which is insoluble in water, hence it is the basis.
Air quality monitoring, including the cyanide-based processes.
safest form of arsenic for disposal.
In contrast, monitoring of carbon monoxide levels and the BIOX process produces tailings with a dust emissions, is carried out in accordance The handling of cyanide is carried out higher concentration of water-soluble mobile with mining and environmental monitoring in line with strict security requirements.
arsenic, which is more hazardous, even after programmes agreed in advance with federal Cyanide is stored in locked, guarded the additional treatment required before it environmental authorities.
Access is can be disposed of into a tailings dam.
limited to fully-qualied personnel and security procedures are reviewed on a monthly basis.
Only authorised personnel are allowed to transport cyanide and all transportation is logged.
Tailings dams are designed to be water tight and are monitored on a regular basis.
Go to pages 28 and 29 for more on the POX Hub Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 61 Community Engagement and Charitable Foundation The Group is committed to promoting the on the outcome of the OVOS report, the The Foundation both initiates its own projects social and economic development of the Amur design of the proposed mine may change.
and allocates funds on a request basis, once region and improving the quality of life of the claims have been fully investigated by the local community.
This is achieved through Welfare and community liaison Foundations commissioners and due diligence widening the scope of the Groups operations The Head of Welfare and Community Liaison has been conducted.
Peter Hambro Chairman and assisted by the Petropavlovsk Foundation works to maintain an on-going dialogue and Sergey Ermolenko CEO are members of for Social Investment The Foundation.
between Petropavlovsk and local the Foundations Board of Trustees.
communities, the media, local government, Direct contribution to the local economy non-governmental organisations and During 2012, the work of the Foundation was The Group remains one of the largest non-governmental organisations NGOs.
acknowledged by the Ministry of the Economic employers in the Amur region.
The Groups In addition, she facilitates the communication Development of the Russian Federation.
investment in education and training provides between mine management and staff at The Foundation was nominated for a prize for further job opportunities and helps to stimulate Group operations, holding talks with the Best programme facilitating development the local economy.
employees and working closely with the of local communities and improving the social trade union.
She also oversees the publication climate in the region of the Company activities.
The Group is a major tax payer in the of the Groups internal newspaper.
Funds spent in 2012 The Petropavlovsk Foundation for In 2012, the Foundation invested 59.9 million The Group uses local enterprises as suppliers Social Investment Roubles into its six priority areas: child The Foundation was established in 2010, wherever practically and economically possible.
development, education, culture, quality streaming the Groups charity work through of life, sport and programmes aimed at one investment vehicle.
Since its launch, Community consultations encouraging socio-economic development the Foundation has donated approximately Maintaining good relationships with local in the Russian Far East.
173 million Roubles to local causes in and communities and the local authorities is a key around the Amur region.
The Group is The amount invested in 2012 59.9 million committed to ensuring that local communities Roubles was lower than the amount invested The Foundation aims to contribute, are actively involved in its development plans in 2011 90.6 million Roubles due to a encourage and stimulate the sustainable and that concerns are adequately addressed reduction in costs brought on by improved socio-economic and cultural development in public consultations.
efficiencies and a rollover of 2011 projects, of the areas in which the Group operates in which saw a reduction in start-up costs.
It is hoped that this will Russian legislation requires an environmental The Foundations expenditure in 2012 not only improve the quality of life for local impact assessment report OVOS report was greater than in 2010 as the Foundation inhabitants, but also encourage investment to be drawn up as a part of the initial permit was not operating for the full year in 2010. into the region and ensure the Russian Far East process of a mining project.
The report Conversely, the Foundation was allocated is an attractive place to live and work.
The considers the social, economic, demographic, a higher budget in 2011, reecting the need Foundation works closely with regional and health, architectural, environmental and to take into account start-up costs.
federal governmental authorities, local climatic impact of the proposed mine.
As part business, NGOs, local communities and of this process, public opinion is considered.
The Foundations educational programmes A mining company is required to present to are aimed at supporting further and higher the public with detailed information on the The Foundations investment activities are education institutions in the Russian Far East, proposed activities and development of the grouped under six priority areas: education, enhancing opportunities for students personal project and the design of production facilities child development, culture, sport, quality and professional growth and providing financial and the layout of the mine including any roads of life and programmes aimed at encouraging support to students in need.
to be laid and outline all the potential impacts socio-economic development in the of the project on the environment, local Russian Far East through investment in economy and local community.
Funds spent in 2012 Funds spent in 2011 Funds spent in 2010 Priority area million Roubles million Roubles million Roubles Education 1.9 5.7 0.5 Child development 7.1 6.4 2.0 Culture 26.0 25.9 15.0 Sport 3.6 16.2 1.0 Enhancing the quality of life 19.7 27.9 1.6 Development initiatives 2.0 8.5 3.0 Total 59.9 90.6 23.1 Figures have been rounded.
Table excludes some maintenance costs.
62 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements During 2012, the Foundation spent 1.9 million 2012 cultural programmes included renovating the Foundation works closely with municipal Roubles on its educational projects.
This was local cultural establishments, with a particular and local authorities.
Programmes under less than funds spent in 2011 5.7 million emphasis on the Selemzhinskiy area of the this investment area aim to strengthen Roubles but considerably more than funds Amur region, which is home to the Malomir healthcare and other services, provide spent in 2010 0.5 million Roubles, reecting and Albyn mines.
As in 2011, the Foundation housing and improve the quality of existing the decrease in start-up costs and improved continued to provide financial support to the housing.
The Foundation also works on efficiencies.
For example, the renovation of excavation of the Albazino fortress, an area of local environmental projects and provides nurseries was conducted simultaneously local historical signicance, collaborating with financial aid to particular individuals who across an area, which helped to reduce the specialists from across Russia and abroad.
are considered to be especially in need.
During 2012, the Foundation continued to During 2012, the Group spent 19.7 million During 2012, the Foundation continued provide financial support to programmes Roubles on projects aimed at improving to provide student grants.
In addition, funds aimed at supporting, promoting and the quality of life of local communities were spent on teacher training programmes.
preserving the traditions and culture of in the areas affected by the operations a local indigenous population, the Evenks.
This was less than in 2011, Child development Working in collaboration with the Evenk reecting the decrease in start-up The Foundations child development Community Council, during 2012 the costs and improved efficiencies.
programmes are aimed at improving the Foundation ran programmes promoting quality of life of children in the Russian Far the revival of traditional Evenk arts, renovating During 2012, funds were allocated to support public healthcare.
Working closely East, with a particular focus on children from local cultural establishments and providing with the local authorities, the Foundation underprivileged backgrounds or with difficult financial support to libraries.
provided equipment, training and technical medical conditions.
resources and renovated existing medical Sport facilities.
Special assistance was provided During 2012, the Foundation spent 7.1 million The aim of the Foundations investment in sport to the Amur Regional Childrens hospital, Roubles, an increase on the funds spent in is twofold: the Foundation aims to support with the establishment of a new medical 2011 6.4 million Roubles.
initiatives and institutions which promote surgery.
Approximately 50 items of specialised health and tness.
In addition, the Foundation equipment was supplied to a number of rural 2012 programmes included investment in aims to strengthen and develop local hospitals and surgeries in the Selemzhinskiy local nursery schools.
Ten children received professional sport, in order to promote both area.
Funds were also allocated towards the financial support, which enabled them a general healthy lifestyle and the Amur region establishment of a childrens dental surgery to access specialist medical treatment as a place to live, work and do business in.
in Zeya, the first of its kind in the town.
During 2012, the Foundation spent 3.6 million Developing the Russian Far East Culture Roubles on the reconstruction of sports The Foundation runs programmes aimed The aim of the Foundations cultural facilities and stadiums, providing financial at increasing the economic potential of the programmes is to promote cultural activities support and sponsorship to athletes, sports Russian Far East by supporting local design and develop cultural awareness in the Russian clubs and teams, and sponsoring sports and teams, research institutions or institutions Far East.
tness tournaments and programmes for both engaged in activities specic to the Russian amateurs and professional athletes.
In 2012, the Foundation spent 26 million invested in sport in 2012 were less than in 2011 Roubles 2011: 25.9 million Roubles on 16.2 million Roubles, reecting improved During 2012, the Foundation spent supporting cultural programmes and efficiencies and the decrease in start-up costs.
2 million Roubles on programmes in sponsoring cultural events.
This was less than in 2011 Enhancing the quality of Life 8.5 million Roubles, reecting the The Foundation aims to directly improve reduction in start-up costs.
the quality of life for some of the most disadvantaged groups of people in the Amur region.
In order to facilitate this, Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 63 Gover finance The Board believes that good governance is fundamental to the Company and to our relationship with our shareholders.
Peter Hambro Chairman 64 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Construction of the autoclave building, part of the POX Hub The four autoclave vessels have been placed on their foundations and work is now progressing on completing the autoclave building around them.
