Managing our Workforce Petropavlovsk recognises that its employees conveniences.
Employees are then given the Employee communications have been instrumental in its success to date same time off site, once their shift is complete.
The Group recognises that an open and and that its future success is dependent on This shift pattern has the added benets of transparent dialogue between employees attracting and retaining a motivated workforce enabling employees to maintain their family and management is vital to ensure employees that will uphold the Groups values and deliver commitments and ensures that the mines are motivated and kept well informed on its strategy.
Since inception, the Group has are able to operate throughout the year.
strived to be an employer of choice, attracting and retaining employees by offering Average number of employees To provide a balanced forum to air any competitive remuneration, high-quality During 2012, the average number of grievances or discuss any pressing issues, equipment and training, good living conditions employees rose to 14,894 2011: 13,385 an independent trade union was set up in and opportunities for career development.
reecting the intensication of the Groups 2003.
Elected by employees every four years, The Group is proud to employ industry-leading activities.
Of this gure, 2,229 were employed the trade union committee handles a wide experts from across the Russian mining by IRC 2011: 2,226.
range of issues and seeks to improve industry.
As a predominantly Russian employees wellbeing on and off site.
company, almost all the Groups employees 2012 14,894 are Russian nationals, including operational In addition, all staff have the opportunity to 2011 13,385 management and the majority of the raise any concerns anonymously with senior Executive Directors.
2009 7,766 Working hours Since 2006, the Group has circulated a free 2008 6,544 In line with Russian legislation, monthly newsletter, complemented by the all employees across the Group are issued launch of a corporate magazine in 2010. with contracts stipulating their working hours, See page 138 of the Financial Statements The content of these publications includes paid annual leave allowances and other for a breakdown of the 2012 average number corporate and operational updates, interviews employee guarantees.
with management and employees and relevant regional news.
Staff at the Groups mines work according Equal opportunities to a shift pattern.
The Groups mines are The Group is committed to providing equal The Group undertakes a range of internal located in remote regions, some distance opportunities and equal pay for individuals conferences and seminars each year on from large towns, so it would not be practical in all aspects of employment, regardless specic disciplines to promote the sharing for employees to commute to work daily.
of their gender or background.
This approach of information and experiences between Instead, employees work on-site for either is also a legal requirement under UK and colleagues in order for them to learn from a fortnight or a month, staying in purpose-built Russian law.
Women have the opportunity one another.
accommodation blocks equipped with to reach the highest levels of senior recreational facilities and modern management and Board positions.
As at Dealing with bribery and corruption 31 December 2012, women on the Board The Company has a zero tolerance approach and the Executive Committee comprised to bribery and corruption.
The Groups training college, The Pokrovskiy Mining College, does not discriminate against gender when recruiting new students.
The College has run recruitment drives aimed at women, encouraging them to consider careers in traditionally male professions, such as operators of heavy machinery.
