Introduction to the Sustainability Report Martin Smith Deputy Chief Executive We at Petropavlovsk believe that our To assist our shareholders in understanding commitment to operating in a way which our commitment to operating sustainably, is safe, efficient, responsible, transparent in 2012, we cemented our existing approach and sustainable, is a cornerstone of our to sustainability into a broad set of values mission to become one of the leaders in and commitments, which are reproduced the global gold mining industry.
A thriving on the next page.
These values and business is one that is well regarded and commitments were reviewed by the Board supported by the communities in which in 2013 and continue to underpin our it operates, manages a dedicated and approach to doing business, guiding our motivated workforce and exercises rolling Sustainability Action Plan: which operational control.
outlines our key priority areas against our strategic objective to continue to run our We recognise that our success to date has business safely and responsibly.
been complemented by our commitment to act in a manner which is safe, responsible This year, Petropavlovsk has reported record and supportive of the local communities in resources, production and revenues, our the regions in which we operate.
This remains exploration programme has identied exciting a key fundamental of the way in which we new targets and the development of our POX do business.
I am pleased to report that these achievements have been made To reect the fact that operating sustainably without compromising our rigorous approach is ingrained in our business model and is to safety and environmental standards one of our strategic objectives, in 2012 the and our commitment to responsible mining.
Board decided that the Sustainability Report should be integrated into the Annual Report.
It is hoped that this will enable shareholders to get a better understanding of how sustainability is an integral part of the way we operate as a business.
Martin Smith Deputy Chief Executive, Member of the HSE Committee Operating sustainably is ingrained in our business model and is one of our strategic objectives.
