Accounting Policies Continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of the business less the estimated costs of completing production and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their primary distribution location and condition.
This includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating activity.
Company shares held by employee benefit trusts Company shares are purchased on behalf of employee benefit trusts to satisfy the liability of various employee share schemes.
The amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Purchased shares are classified as Company shares held by employee benefit trusts, and presented as a deduction from retained earnings.
Deferred income Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are treated as deferred credits and a proportion of the grants are credited each year to the income statement based on the depreciation rate for the related property, plant and equipment.
Current and deferred income tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is charged in the income statement except where it relates to tax on items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is charged to equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, in the consolidated financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where the carrying value of an asset is to be recovered through both use and subsequent disposal, a single tax base is attributed to that asset resulting in a single temporary difference being recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the year end date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Employee benefits Retirement benefit plans The Group operates two pension schemes as detailed in note 25.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to trustee-administered funds.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Defined contribution pension plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Defined benefit pension plans A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability surplus recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of plan assets less the fair value of the defined benefit obligation, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs at the statement of financial position date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
72 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012
