4 Our Community Case Study Walthamstow site: Corporate Social Responsibility We utilise 1% of our profits in supporting Haven House Childrens Hospice Continued charities, good causes and community groups Our Walthamstow distribution site supported each year.
The support we give comprises a Haven House Childrens Hospice.
Haven mixture of cash, product and merchandise House Childrens Hospice is a special place donations and our employees time.
It cares for children and investment is spread across a broad spectrum young people from birth to age 19 who have of activities, including contributions to national life-limiting conditions and who are unlikely to charities, e. g. The Big Issue Scotland, The reach adulthood.
It helps families by providing 30 year 30 Princes Trust, and to international charities, a range of services, including day, short break service awards e. g. The British Asian Trust.
We also support and end of life care, together with therapeutic many small and medium sized community play in the community.
Families are provided Alan Bridges groups throughout the U. K. with the support they need when they need it James Conway most, at no cost to themselves.
Haven House Ronald Innes In 2011 we introduced a new and ongoing Childrens Hospice is a charity which looks James Rattray community funding initiative called The A. G. after children and their families in North and BARR Site Community Fund.
The fund offers East London and West Essex.
additional support to community and charity groups in the immediate area of our 11 U. K. To find out more about the work of the sites, whilst at the same time providing our Hospice visit: www.
c1,000 employees with the opportunity to offer direct support to the causes that are The Princes Trust most important to them.
In 2011 our This is the fourth year of our partnership with employees facilitated cash donations from The Princes Trust.
A. G. BARR donates over the fund to over 30 different charitable 40,000 per annum to support The Trusts education and community organisations work.
Our employees are engaged in raising across the U. K. funds, helping the charity deliver its Team Programme education courses in Scotland Case Study Forfar Site: Angus Cardiac and supporting its XL Club Programme Group in England.
Our Forfar site donated to the Angus Cardiac Group.
The group provides support to their We also donate Strathmore water to members, some of whom have heart disease, the organisation to support events and along with their families and supporters.
They fundraising activities across the year.
The participate in funding activities to benefit all Strathmore brand also carries the Princes parties as well as their NHS carers, upon Trust logo, together with details of our whom they rely heavily.
These funds pay for support and how consumers can find out exercise classes, promote education and more about the work of the charity, on provide comfort for all by way of supporting over 57 million bottles each year distributed a number of social and caring activities.
throughout the U. K. To find out more about the group visit: The Princes Trust helping to change www.
For more information go to www.
Haven House Childrens Hospice Our Walthamstow branch supported Haven House Childrens Hospice.
34 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Case Study: The Princes Trust The British Asian Trust The Local Partnership Agreement is part Team Programme Scotland 2011 In 2011 we entered our second year of of the Scottish Governments strategy for In Scotland we funded a 12 week Team partnership through our Rubicon brand developing enterprise in education.
As part of the with The British Asian Trust.
The Trust employees are engaged in a range of learning programme, 11 students were asked to aims to bring lasting change to the lives of activities with the schools, including visits develop and deliver a fundraising idea for disadvantaged people in South Asia through to our Cumbernauld site to view our state The Trust in collaboration with employees access to education, health and livelihoods.
of the art manufacturing, warehousing and at our Cumbernauld site.
With the help of Founded in 2009 by HRH The Prince of Wales, distribution facilities.
Cumbernauld College, the Leith Agency, the Trust has helped more than 350,000 Howe Design and our employees, they people overcome poverty in Bangladesh, Through Lenzie Academy we have supported designed and developed a fun and colourful India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and the U. K. a number of charitable projects in 2011, cookbook titled Food Fight.
The 700 copies including fundraising for Malawi.
printed raised over 3,000 as part of our Case Study: Mumbai Mobile Creches own annual Christmas fundraising activity One of the charities that Rubicon supports Other Charitable Community Organisations for the Trust.
through The British Asian Trust is Mumbai In addition to the work highlighted in this Mobile Creches MMC, which helps the report, we supported a large number of other Students worked in the kitchens at 50,000 children of migrant workers growing charitable and community organisations Cumbernauld College campus to prepare up on construction sites in Mumbai.
These across the U. K. recipes from the book, including a starter children not only lack access to formal of lentil soup, a main course of haggis, schooling, they often suffer from malnutrition, Summary neeps and tatties and a dessert of tablet injury and illness.
Overall we believe we are doing the right and shortbread all accompanied by our thing across our CR agenda and we will own IRN-BRU.
Abha-Thorat Shah, Director of The British continue to concentrate our efforts on Asian Trust, commented: Rubicons support improving employee and shareholder Emma Noble, Princes Trust Programme enabled MMC to reach over 3,500 children engagement, whilst focussing our strategy Leader, said: The students have really through 30 centres, train 15 teachers and on the four key areas of environment, people, enjoyed being involved with this exciting facilitate the enrolment of over 300 children consumers, and community during 2012. project.
It has been really hands-on and they in municipal schools in Mumbai.
have had a fantastic amount of input in the design, layout and pictures featured in the Enterprise in Education Partnership cookbook.
The students also met up with the Agreements design company, the Leith Agency, to discuss We continue to work in partnership with ideas and gain a better understanding of how Lenzie Academy and Westfield Primary Andrew Memmott something like this is put together.
We also School in Cumbernauld as part of the Operations Director and Chair provided two work placements for students Enterprise in Education and Local Partnership of the Environmental Committee on the course.
The Princes Trust Team Programme Scotland 2011 Students in the kitchens at Cumbernauld College campus putting the Food Fight recipe book to good use.
Pictured is Ian Johnstone far left, part of the A. G. BARR team who volunteered as part of the project.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
