2 Our People This forum allows us to communicate Corporate Social Responsibility Our goal is to make A. G. BARR a great place business information on a more local and Continued to work both now and in the future.
personal basis, as well as giving our people the opportunity to air their views, suggest Investor in People Silver status achieved at new and better ways of working and propose our Moston, Middlebrook and Forfar sites improvements to their working environments.
Communication Teams established at all our sites Reward and Development Reward and development platform In 2011 we took the opportunity to review 25 year strengthened 25 our job evaluation system and introduced a service awards simpler and refreshed model.
This exercise Investors in People involved extended benchmarking to ensure April Byrne Investors in People IIP helps organisations that, as our business grows, our reward Marie Clements improve performance and realise objectives systems continue to attract, motivate and Martin Daly through the management and development retain the best employees.
The new model Paul Deane of their people.
also allows us to clearly articulate the levels David Gifford of skill and competence demonstrated by William Jackson In 2010, A. G. BARR achieved the prestigious our teams across the Company and Michelle Mennell IIP Bronze recognition.
This external provides us with an excellent platform to Stephen Nixon assessment has allowed us to benchmark our build strengthened development and career Robert Porter performance, as well as identifying areas for pathways to help our people grow their David Scaife further improvement.
We have continued to capability and improve their performance.
Dean Scott work with IIP in 2011 and our Middlebrook, Moston and Forfar sites have achieved Silver Health and Safety Status, having made excellent progress with Improving safety standards is a top priority their development plans.
We will continue to at A. G. BARR.
Safety is led from the top by work with IIP, with a further four sites due to the Health & Safety Executive team, which be re-assessed against the standard in 2012. comprises the Executive Directors, chaired by the Finance Director and supported by the Communication Teams Health & Safety Manager.
This team agrees Over the past year we have consolidated safety policy and ensures all safety teams our Joint Consultation and Communication implement best safety practice at all our sites.
Teams across the whole business.
The teams, comprising representatives from all A. G. BARR undertook a benchmarking job levels, meet on a quarterly basis at all exercise in 2011, consulting eight blue chip our sites and have proved to be invaluable companies to identify best in class safety in terms of improving communication and standards.
Following this, an action plan was generating important feedback.
put in place to implement best in class safety improvements across the A. G. BARR business.
Left: Investors in People Employees at Moston pictured with their Silver Status IIP certificate.
Right: Forfar IIP Silver Employees at our Forfar site are presented with their IIP Silver certificate by Jonathan Kemp, Commercial Director.
32 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
