Sustainability Corporate Social Responsibility Overview Playtechs continued commitment to integrating corporate social responsibility into its businesses supports its ability to generate sustainable long-term value, enhancing delivery on its strategic objectives.
The issues of interest to the Companys stakeholders can be grouped into five areas: #1 #2 #3 #4 #5 Workplace Governance Marketplace Community Environment The well being Maintaining high standards Working with regulators, Our broader communityMitigating the Companys of our employees, of corporate governance partners and licensees to related obligations in environmental impact, and how we attract, to monitor and mitigate further responsible gaming those locations where where relevant and develop and retain risks associated with our employees, business appropriate, to reflect the best talent the business partners and licensees the nature and scale live and work of its business The Company believes that its true value is The programme to put in place consistent Playtech operates in a highly-competitive not solely demonstrated by its balance sheet documentation and Group-wide policies industry and so retaining key staff is a priority.
and financial results, but should include and procedures that started in 2011, The Company provides financial rewards and other, more intangible attributes, such as well as a number of employee-related a positive working environment, developing as its people, brand and reputation.
employees skills for improved performance and increased job satisfaction levels.
By embracing policies and behaviours Alan Jackson, chairman of the Risk that govern responsible conduct, the Committee, has Board-level responsibility Governance Company creates more valuable relationships for the programme.
Playtechs Board is responsible for the Groups with its stakeholders, enhancing trust by financial and operational performance, ensuring demonstrating its focus on, and management Workplace the success and sustainability of the business of, the material non-financial risks in the Playtech understands that the success of by directing and supervising the Companys business.
Playtech believes that a responsible its business is due to the vital contribution policies and strategies.
approach to these challenges, together with made by its employees.
It is therefore essential risk assessment and mitigation, will positively to the Companys continued growth and In an industry which continues to undergo impact its ability to succeed operationally development that it is able to attract and significant structural changes, the Boards and strategically.
retain talented employees who will contribute role has never been more important, not least to the long-term success of the business.
following the Companys move in July 2012 to a Focus on Sustainability Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Playtech continues to improve its The Group is fully committed to equality understanding and monitoring of of opportunity and dignity at work for all.
The identification of significant risks facing material non-financial risks, despite Its primary aim in this area is to recruit the best the business, and processes to monitor and operating in a highly-dynamic and and most appropriate employees, irrespective mitigate them, is covered in more detail on rapidly-changing environment.
of race, religion, ethnic or national origins, pages 48 and 49. gender, sexuality, disability, class or age, working to the highest standards across the Group.
50 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Marketplace The Group has an experienced Chief Environment Playtechs CSR marketplace metrics Compliance Officer who focuses the Companys In comparison to other global companies, focus on stakeholder perceptions of the efforts on regulatory matters, and this is of Playtech has a relatively low environmental Companys relationships with licensees and particular significance as Playtech continues impact, by virtue of the fact that it is an online its responsiveness to their requirements: and to expand its regulated markets offering.
business with a limited number of office on Playtechs relationships with regulators locations.
The day-to-day running of the and other industry bodies.
Community business will inevitably have consequences, Playtech recognises its responsibility to particularly in terms of energy consumption The Company will look to report on these, and support the local and international communities and travel, and the Company has put in place include cause, conduct surveys to ensure that in which it operates, and employs a social processes to monitor its carbon dioxide it properly understands external perceptions involvement SI programme accordingly.
emissions from air travel and reduce any of the business and manages its reputation.
The Company values the positive influence unnecessary travel.
on its employees personal and professional Playtech delivers a high quality service to development that can be found through Where it is necessary to take new office space, its licensees so that they can offer the best volunteer work, and sees it as important consideration is made for the implementation customer experience.
The Company works for the business over the long-term.
The of greater energy-efficient measures.
In Estonia, to monitor customer satisfaction levels across Companys employees are actively engaged the building was designed with a highly the licensee base as the retention of licensees in supporting charities and Playtech has efficient cooling system for the computer room, is central to the sustainability of its business expanded its SI programme to focus on and in all new locations there has been a move model.
Playtech places great value on its initiatives that deliver educational support to reduce energy consumption.
With a ratio relationships with gaming regulators around and assistance to disadvantaged children of employees to printers of over 30, the offices the world and works with them to ensure in those countries where the Group can be seen to be increasingly paperless all aspects of the business meet or exceed has operations.
In addition, bottled water has their standards.
been largely replaced by water fountains, and In 2012 Playtech gave approximately where local schemes exist, waste is separated In a rapidly changing industry environment, 50,000 to charitable organisations working and recycled.
where newly-regulating markets play a central in the fields of education and research role, it is critical that the Companys reputation into, and treatment of, problem gambling as the best quality partner in the industry 2011: 100,000.
Playtech also provided is maintained and promoted.
Playtechs non-financial support to these causes, customers are its licensees and the Company including computer hardware and training.
plays a central role in helping them to manage their gaming operations responsibly.
The Companys approach to Responsible Gaming is discussed in detail on pages 54 and 55.
Employees Profile Age Gender Below 30 49% Male 66% 30-45 49% Female 34% Above 45 2% Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Sustainability Corporate Social Responsibility continued Playtechs people Attracting the best talent, together with motivating and retaining employees, is fundamental to Playtechs business sustainability and industry leadership.
Average Number of Employees 2012 2,828 2,828 2011 1,737 63% 2010 1,112 2011: 1,737 Locations and People Product Development Playtech has also looked to utilise outsourcing Playtech is headquartered in the Isle of Playtechs software business is structured resources, or to deliver a greater ability to Man and has seven main offices, including along product lines, with separate business licensees to self-manage their content.
This principal software development centres units for each product area, such as the IMS, greater degree of control has benefits for the in Estonia Tartu and Tallinn, Bulgaria, the casino, poker, bingo and sports, and across licensee in terms of faster deployment time UK London, Manchester and Ipswich and the online, live dealer, mobile and land-based for new content and helps to maximise the Israel.
PTTS has substantial offices in Bulgaria delivery channels.
This structure aims to productivity of Playtechs development teams.
and the Philippines as well as a corporate ensure that Playtech can manage the demands centre in Cyprus.
of increasing operational scale, as existing Playtechs R&D operations are among licensees develop and new customers migrate the biggest in the online gaming industry In 2012, Playtech employed an average to the Companys gaming platform.
and employ over 850 people, principally of 2,828 people.
At the end of the year, devoted to software development.
The scale total headcount was over 2,600 people.
In practice, this approach co-locates product of Playtechs R&D function helps it to maintain teams so that, for example, those employees a competitive advantage in technology In addition to the permanent headcount, working on Playtechs casino product are innovation, content development and Playtech has a programme to outsource all located in Tartu, Estonia, with content product pipeline.
certain ancillary development and service and software developers, quality assurance activities, which are predominately and product delivery teams working closely The Companys extensive experience and production-related rather than software together on the same office floor.
This capabilities enable it to be neutral as to development.
This speeds up time-toapproach enhances collaboration and the technology platform or system when market for routine upgrades and frees enables the team to quickly identify and developing new solutions for licensees up key development resources.
Playtechs resolve any technical issues that may arise.
so that it is able to offer its market-leading outsourcing partner, Ciklum, is an experienced products and services to the widest possible service provider with a facility based in the Since 2011, Playtech has deployed a software customer base.
This flexibility offers a Ukrainian city of Kiev.
PTTS also outsources delivery management process which has substantial advantage as licensees increasingly some basic emarketing processes and reduced the time-to-market for new games look for a combination of both download and reconciliation activities.
and launch time for new licensees.
The browser-based formats for the same games, Companys intelligent approach to managing and across platforms ranging from online to project workflows is a significant competitive mobile and gaming terminals.
advantage when compared to its peers.
52 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Customer Service Playtechs culture focuses on the continued The service-orientated philosophy improvement of its workforce, driven by underpinning Playtechs content development a strong ethos of innovation, technological activities can also be found in its product development and the delivery of marketand infrastructure operations, with a team leading performance.
Many of Playtechs of over 150 people providing a 24 7 new employees are referred by existing support service to licensees.
staff, reflecting the Companys focus on developing a close-knit collegiate corporate From the beginning of every project, culture.
Ongoing training and career Playtech supports its licensees, drawing on development are important elements over a decade of experience and more than of Playtechs sustainability efforts.
Dedicated teams, staffed by professionals from all disciplines, provide Employee Performance complete project and launch management, While the development of market-leading assisting with strategy, business planning, software and products is at the heart of compliance and regulatory requirements, Playtechs growth, licensees naturally expect through to recruitment and team building.
24 7 operational performance and efficient delivery.
The Companys business units are Playtech provides its customers operational integral to ensuring Playtech meets the teams with an intensive two-week training requirements of its licensees and employees programme ahead of launch.
Thereafter, each are rewarded accordingly.
licensee is assigned an experienced account manager who provides day-to-day support Playtechs appraisal system is based around and a point of contact.
Customers can draw individual business unit and Group-wide on a pool of product and technology specialists objectives, which are directly aligned to advise on any issues, and a consulting team to Group strategy and specific areas of provides value-added input to optimise the implementation and execution.
Employees tools available on the Playtech platform.
have clearly defined objectives and targets that are set in each review period, and their Valuing Our People performance is routinely measured against Playtechs market-leading position is a these objectives.
significant asset in its efforts to attract the best talent in the industry.
Candidates are Employee remuneration includes drawn to Playtech by the combination of competitive salaries and cash bonuses, its highly motivated, entrepreneurial team which are set by reference to the achievement culture and its breadth of knowledge and ability of the aformentioned objectives, and by to harness cutting-edge technology.
This has the demonstration of other competencies also been an important factor in Playtechs and contributions to the Group.
A revised corporate acquisitions, where the potential long-term, share-based incentive scheme to benefit from such a large and experienced to attract and retain the best operational support network has been a key discussion and business managers was implemented point and decision factor for a management in 2012. team assessing the benefits of joining Playtech.
Once again, Playtechs people were well represented in leading gaming magazine G1Qs Hot 50 talented people.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Sustainability Corporate Social Responsibility continued Responsible Gaming As a leader in the online gaming industry, Playtech takes its responsibilities to operators and regulators seriously and is focused on co-operating with both parties on issues of responsible gaming.
Philosophy Responsible Gaming Foundation, a UK charity dedicated to Responsible gaming is an integral part The Companys fully-integrated management supporting research into problem gambling, of Playtechs institutional mindset and a system provides operators with the latest education and training.
significant factor in all of its activities.
Embedded software provider, the Company is not directly systems and controls ensure fair play and Playtech is also an associate member of the in contact with players, but responsible gaming facilitate responsible gaming for players and World Lottery Association WLA, the global nonetheless remains a fundamental issue for ensure a safe playing environment for all.
professional association for state lottery the Company in safeguarding its business and and gaming organisations.
The WLA and reputation, and for the continued responsible Playtechs software and services provide its members are committed to maintaining development of the industry.
operators with the means to deploy advanced the highest ethical standards of gaming.
responsible gaming protocols and sophisticated Within PTTS, Playtech has a greater degree player tracking, across all products and Certification and Regulation of contact with players on behalf of its licensees, platforms, to control and prevent issues such As a responsible supplier to the regulated and is consequently dedicating, with its as compulsive usage and under-age access of gaming industry, Playtechs systems comply operators, a substantial focus on the proper the Companys gaming products.
The Group with all the guidelines published by the variety management of the relevant responsible has contributed financially to the work of the of well-regulated jurisdictions in which its gaming protocols.
Responsible Gambling Trust formerly the Great licensees operate.
The Company partners with regulatory and governmental bodies, and all its products undergo comprehensive testing by independent third parties.
Playtech is an active member of the Remote Gambling Association RGA, which has developed an industry code of practice on social responsibility and age verification, which the Company fully supports.
As part of the certification process, Playtechs games and their software engines including the random number generators are regularly tested and certified by leading industry bodies to ensure consistency and fair play.
54 54 Pla Play ytech tech Limi Limited ted A An nn nual ual R Re epor port t a and nd A Accou ccoun nt ts s 2 20 01 12 2 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts The Group holds a certificate of evaluation This activity focuses on the early identification Playtechs software from the accredited testing facility TST of the small percentage of players that have and services provide which is part of Gaming Laboratories the potential, under certain circumstances, operators with the means International GLI, the worlds largest to develop gambling-related problems independent gaming testing and certification and the much smaller group who demonstrate to deploy advanced laboratory.
Playtech also holds an official an inability to control their gaming habits responsible gaming tools Certificate of Prior Approval from the Alderney or actions.
to control and prevent In regulated markets, such as Italy, France, In addition to the self-help tools above, the issues such as compulsive Spain, Estonia and Finland, Playtechs software customer services team is trained in their usage and under-age has been reviewed and passed for use by interactions with players to identify certain the local regulators.
actions or comments that indicate a current access.
The Group has or emerging problem.
For those displaying contributed financially Operator and Player Toolkit problem gambling characteristics, the team is to the work of the Every licensee is provided with Playtechs trained to manage their exclusion and provide Responsible Gambling transparency toolkit, which is embedded information on how to seek necessary help.
in the Companys software and includes Trust, a UK charity viewable player protection content and Fraud, Money Laundering and Fair Play dedicated to supporting the following tools: An integral part of Playtechs technology research into problem platform is its ability to monitor and identify t Compulsive gambling prevention fraud and money laundering.
Playtech gambling, education t Age verification employs a dedicated security team focused and training.
t Deposit limits on ensuring that it is at the forefront of t Bet limits industry best-practice.
With comprehensive t Session time limits monitoring of transactions and gaming t Self-exclusion tools behaviour, licensees are able to ensure that players cannot gain an advantage through The Company also provides comprehensive unfair means.
This is a particular focus training and ongoing support to licensees in player-to-player games such as poker, to ensure that they are providing the maximum to minimise any risk of player collusion.
Where Playtech provides external and or internal marketing services to a licensee, it puts in place clear protocols and procedures for player engagement.
Playtechs technology platform provides the tools to identify and manage any player thought to be showing indications of problem gaming, and regular dialogue, reporting and joint training exercises with licensees address any concerns that arise.
Certification Charities supported Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors have elected to prepare the financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Accounting Standard 1 revised requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also requires the directors to: t Select and apply appropriate accounting policies: t Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and t Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
All of the current directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Groups auditors for the purposes of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are not aware of any relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
The financial statements are published on the Groups website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors responsibility also extends to the continued integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
56 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
