Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Performance review process The Group places great emphasis on optimising the Employees contribution made by employees at all levels around the world.
Our Group-wide performance review process is a practice thatis fundamental to achieving and maintaining our high performance culture.
As such, every employee globally nowparticipates in a performance review cycle twice per The Group continues to year, aprogramme that has been substantially revised and madeavailable online since 2008.
The system is also used investinthe development of tocapture commitment to the Companys code of conduct andthe development opportunities in which employees itsemployees through the takepart aspart of their ongoing development.
economiccycles, maintaining Training and development The Group continues to invest in the development of its ourhigh performance culture.
employees even throughout tough economic cycles, maintaining its programme of tailored training and succession programmes for first line supervisors, managers and leaders of people which include 360 degree feedback.
Specific employee development programmes are designed on the basis of identified individual and organisational needs to underpin a culture of high performance and all employees areentitled to spend an hour every week on personal development activities.
The Groups online learning centre provides content to aid personal development, including customised internal course material and access to a wide range of external materials delivered in partnership with aleading business school.
A comprehensive induction moduleforms part of every new employees introduction totheCompany.
A formal job grading system exists across the Group to assistremuneration practices as well as career development and organisational planning processes.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 66 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Employees continued As part of career development, we actively encourage engagement of our future leaders.
Further information on employees to apply for vacancies.
This year, we have diversity across the Group can be found in the Sustainability successfully filled 30% of vacant positions from our internal Report available at http: annualreport2012.
com talent pool excludes internal fill rate vacancies in Asia Pacific.
One of our senior female executives isinvolved in the FTSE 100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme which promotes the development of women Diversity and inclusion forBoard appointments.
Mentoring continues to be a The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications powerfultool for the development of our key and emerging foremployment from disabled persons, with regard to their talent pool with the senior team having internal, external particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue andBoard mentors.
the employment of those who become disabled during their employment.
Training, career development and promotion Employee communications are, as far as practicable, identical for all employees according to their skills and abilities.
The Group consistently seeks Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and torecruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation are encouraged to take an active part in the implementation suitably qualified, capable and experienced people, ofour strategy and its execution.
A structured communication irrespective of age, race, gender, religion or sexual orientation.
programme allows factors affecting their employment to be The Company is fully supportive of the benefits of diversity in discussed.
Toreinforce the culture of high performance, in the the workplace.
As a global business, we believe that a diverse creation ofwhich the entire Group participates, all employees workforce is a genuine benefit to us as it gives us the cultural attend kick-off meetings at the beginning of the financial year knowledge and talents required to make informed decisions whichprovides them with the opportunity to understand and deliver excellent service in all of the geographies in theirindividual role in delivering the Companys strategy.
In support of diversity several initiatives Allemployees also attend the Companys Global Green have been launched this year.
Our progress in support of Dayswhere employees worldwide have the opportunity diversity is monitored against targets at Group and regional toputquestions to the Groups senior management on all level.
This year we achieved our global targets for gender aspectsofthe Companys performance, plans and strategy.
diversity at three management grades, with progress being Acomprehensive cascade process ensures that information made towards our other targets.
A womens development on the Companys performance is made available to coincide network sponsored by the CEO supports the development with its quarterly results announcements.
Cyber cafs are in ofemerging female talent.
Finally, a Generation Y network place in many of the Companys locations around the world hasalso been launched to accelerate development and build toallow access to the Groups intranet for those who do not normally work using personal computers.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS The high performance culture of Premier Farnell includes Thesurvey gives an opportunity for employees to address Working in close co-operation with elected representatives ourvalues, brand, our commitment to flawless execution queries, comments and issues directly to our Chief Executive.
from its European operating companies, the Groups anddevelopment of our people, underpinned by leadership This resulted in 1,038 comments to the Chief Executive European Works Council The Premier Farnell European and our Trust Agenda.
These elements of our Strategy thisyear, 300 of which were translated.
The survey results Forum is in its 12th year of operation.
The Forum provides werebrought together in one place for the first time as show encouraging progress in many aspects of employee anarena for the exchange of relevant and appropriate OurElements the how we execute our strategy they are engagement and there are further details of the results of information and constructive dialoguebetween management included in induction programmes, in leader training and also thissurvey on page 77.
In addition, employees have the benefit and employees on European issues.
The European Works used as screen savers to ensure employee understanding.
of the ask Harriet email function to pose questions and Council is legally only relevant forEurope, although the comments confidentially toHarriet Green, our Chief Executive.
seniorleadership team work closely across all regions to communicate openly and honestly with allour employees.
iCan recognition Our Trust Agenda continues to underpin our drive to build asustainable and profitable future with a focus on the planet, The Company has an online system of thank-yous and Great place to work people and principles.
We have investigated opportunities reward points exchangeable for goods, services or donations toincrease week day employee volunteering, initiated a to good causes, as recipients wish.
These points, given As part of our commitment to making our Company a great number ofcarbon reduction projects and won a Limelight through the iCan system, are allocated at the discretion of place to work, we have held wellness weeks and provided Award for sustaining a legacy of environmental stewardship managers and colleagues as a celebration and reward for contemplation rooms for employees to practice their faith, inelectronics manufacturing.
2011 also saw the introduction exceptional performance or effort and serve to increase aswell as honouring cultural holidays.
ofa My Cause objective for all employees.
This objective employee satisfaction and engagement.
This is the second isaimed at enabling employees to pursue a passion of year iCan has been used as a recognition mechanism and Performance related share option scheme theirsduring their working daythat contributes to the overall itwas used by 72% of the organisation in financial year 2012. success of the business.
TheMy Cause objective supports Employees participation in the Groups performance is the Companys vision to be the worlds most profitable and encouraged through the Groups UK savings related share AllEmployee Engagement Survey sustainable provider of products and services to EDEs.
optionscheme, other share related reward schemes and In 2011 we selected and successfully transitioned to our new bytheprovision of cost-effective share dealing services.
Engagement partner, the Corporate Leadership Council CLC Senior leadership councils to give us access to a more stretching high performing During the year a wide cross-section of the workforce had the benchmark since CLC work with over 2,000 leading opportunity to participate in the implementation of the Groups corporations including Google, Microsoft, Amazon, business strategy through participation in the Premier Farnell LockheedMartin, the Nielsen Company, Sap, Citrix, NASA, Leadership Council PFLC.
This forum consists of quarterly MacDonalds, Johnson and Johnson and Apple.
Our fifth all meetings at which the strategy and key issues related to employee engagement survey was again conducted during itsimplementation are discussed.
Further information on the year, providing a mechanism for detailed feedback on thePFLC can be found on page 80. many aspects of what it is like to work for the Company.
