Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 17 Mauritania PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT In Mauritania, 2012 working interest production from the Chinguetti field averaged 600 bopd 2011: 650 bopd with a natural decline in the field production.
The undeveloped discovery, Tevet, in PSC B will continue to be held by the joint venture partners until May 2013, development studies are on-going to make a develop or drop decision.
In September 2012, the joint venture submitted an application for grant of an Exclusive Exploitation Authorisation EAA for the Banda field along with a gas field development plan FDP and Declaration of Commerciality to the Government of Mauritania, subject to various conditions precedent.
Subsequently, the government has approved the FDP and awarded the EAA in January 2013.
Gas sales arrangements and payment guarantees for Banda are currently under discussion with prospective buyers.
The Tiof discovery was relinquished in November 2012, being sub-commercial, with a request to the government that the partnership group is re-engaged in the event of a future satellite development of the field.
EXPLORATION The consolidation of Premiers exploration licences offshore Mauritania was finalised in 2011 with the grant of a new licence, PSC C-10, in which Premier has an equity of 6.23 per cent.
Site surveys were completed over two potential drilling locations, and a final decision on the candidate for the first of two commitment wells will be made in the first half of 2013.
The well is scheduled for drilling in the fourth quarter of 2013.
18 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS REVIEW continued United Kingdom THE PIPELINE OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN OUR UK PORTFOLIO WILL DRIVE CONTINUING GROWTH FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS.
OUR PRINCIPAL FOCUS WILL BE THE SUCCESSFUL EXECUTION OF THESE PROJECTS.
WE WILL ALSO PURSUE EXPLORATION OPPORTUNITIES WHERE THE BALANCE OF RISK AND REWARD MEETS IN-HOUSE OBJECTIVES.
Highlights and achievements Mike Skitmore Significantly higher uptime at the PremierBusiness Unit Manager operated Balmoral facility Premier Oil UK Project sanction of the operated Solan development Catcher development concept formally agreed Exploration success at Carnaby Catcher area In the UK, we have a full suite of operated and non-operated exploration, development and production activities.
The next generation of UK development projects will drive the companys continuing growth in the medium-term and our key focus will be on delivering the Solan and Catcher projects.
Strong production growth PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Production from Premiers UK fields increased to 12,100 boepd compared to 10,300 boepd during 2011 despite no contribution from the Kyle field.
The Banff FPSO, which handles Kyle production, was damaged during exceptionally bad weather at the end of 2011.
Since then it has been off location while repairs are undertaken.
The increased production in the North Sea can be attributed to significantly higher uptime at the Balmoral facility, positive results from the Scott field well intervention programme and our increased stake in the Wytch Farm asset.
Production from Premiers Balmoral area averaged 4,500 bopd during 2012 compared to 3,750 bopd in 2011.
An active year of work culminated in a highly successful Health, Safety and Environment HSE KP4 audit during August, in which a significant improvement in overall integrity was noted.
Safety performance at the Premier-operated Balmoral floating production vessel also improved in 2012 with a marked reduction in incident frequency and severity.
At the end of 2011, Premier increased its equity in the Wytch Farm field to 30.1 per cent.
Upgrades to the process plant and improvements to management systems have facilitated increased production efficiency.
An infill drilling programme commenced in February 2012, ahead of schedule, and has resulted in the completion of three new wells and seven workovers.
On the Huntington field the six well development programme was successfully completed in July 2012 with three of the four producers coming in above expectations.
The FPSO Voyageur Spirit sailed away in September and all five risers have subsequently been installed.
Adverse weather conditions late in the fourth quarter delayed the commissioning and installation programme.
However, the DSV Polaris is nearing completion of the final subsea tie-in in preparation for first oil, which is anticipated by the end of March.
On the Rochelle project the subsea pipeline and umbilical installation programme and upgrades to the host Scott platform were successfully progressed in 2012.
The East Rochelle well, the first of the two development wells, was damaged during a North Sea storm in February 2013.
As a result, drilling operations were suspended safely pending further analysis and the order of the development wells was reversed with the Prospect rig spudding the West Rochelle well in February.
First gas from the Rochelle field is now expected either at the end of the second quarter or in the third quarter of 2013.
Significant progress was achieved on our UK-operated development assets.
Premier was appointed operator of the Solan field, which is located West of Shetland, on 31 January 2012.
The Solan project received full DECC and partner approvals in April 2012 and is now in full execution mode with all of the significant contracts awarded.
The platform is currently being fabricated in Fife, Scotland while the fabrication of the subsea tank is being undertaken in Dubai.
Phase 1 of the development drilling is on track to commence in April 2013: the heavy lift installation work is planned for the summer of 2014.
First oil is targeted for the fourth quarter of 2014 with an initial production rate of 24,000 bopd Premier equity 60 per cent.
In January 2012, Premier completed its acquisition of EnCore Oil plc which resulted in the company taking over operatorship of the Catcher project and increasing its stake in the project to 50 per cent.
The development concept, which was formally approved by the joint venture in December, consists of a leased FPSO with subsea tie-backs.
The project has now entered the design phase and the tender process with the FPSO providers and for the subsea facilities front end engineering and design FEED is under way.
The design phase is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2013 and it is anticipated that the partnership will move to joint venture sanction thereafter.
Timing of first oil from the Catcher field is dependent on the results of the FPSO tender process.
Premier is currently modelling a first oil date during the second half of 2016.
United Kingdom continued EXPLORATION In 2012, Premier drilled seven exploration wells in the UK North Sea, primarily focused on extending the successes of previous years drilling in the Catcher licence across a wider area of the Central North Sea basin.
This resulted in success with the Carnaby well, the first well drilled to date on the western part of the Catcher Block, which encountered 51 feet of net oil in excellent quality sandstones.
The remaining UK exploration wells that targeted this play in 2012 were either dry or encountered non-commercial discoveries.
As a result, the strategy will now focus exclusively on the prospectivity within the Greater Catcher area.
In particular, the Bonneville well spudded in early March with the results expected shortly.
In addition to Bonneville, Premier will drill one other well, Lacewing, in the UK Central North Sea in 2013.
Lacewing is targeting Triassic reservoirs and is Premiers first high pressure high temperature HPHT well.
In 2012, Premier transferred a 37.2 per cent interest in Block 23 22b to ConocoPhillips in exchange for a carry for the Lacewing well.
As a result, Premiers retained equity in the well is 20.2 per cent.
The well, which will be drilled using the Maersk Resilient rig, is expected to spud in April.
th In the 27 UK Licensing Round, the company was awarded a total of 12 licences six operated, building on our acreage position in the UK North Sea.
In particular, Premier was awarded four operated licences adjacent to the Catcher area, which offer both near-field and deeper exploration potential.
In addition, Premier reached an agreement with EnCounter Oil the former management team of EnCore Oil plc jointly to pursue several Mesozoic prospects and leads, primarily in the Inner Moray Firth.
Premier also secured a non-operated licence interest in the west of Shetland Basin.
It is anticipated that the leads and prospects identified on this newly captured acreage will be matured during 2013, with drilling in 2014 and beyond.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 19 Outlook Huntington and Rochelle expected on-stream in 2013 Catcher project sanction anticipated by year-end 2013 Selective exploration programme: upcoming wells include Bonneville Catcher area and Lacewing Premiers first HPHT well 20 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS REVIEW continued Vietnam THERE IS MUCH STILL TO BE GAINED FROM OPTIMISATION OF THE CHIM SO AND NEARBY DUA OIL FIELDS.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO TEST THE PROSPECTIVITY ON BLOCK 07 03 TO THE SOUTH OF CHIM SO AND LOOK FORWARD TO THE CA VOI EXPLORATION WELL IN THE FIRST HALF OF 2013, A POTENTIAL PLAY-OPENER FOR THE UNDER-EXPLORED PHU KHANH BASIN.
Highlights and achievements Phil MacLaurin Production from Chim So ahead of Business Unit Manager expectation at sanction Premier Oil Vietnam Partner and Prime Ministerial approval of Dua project Farm-in to Block 121, which contains the potentially play-opening Ca Voi prospect, completed In Vietnam we are focused on optimising production from the Chim So field and bringing on-stream the nearby Dua field.
We also look forward to the Ca Voi exploration well, a potential play-opener for the under-explored Phu Khanh basin.
Optimising Chim So production PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT The Premier-operated Chim So field was brought on-stream at the end of 2011 and the first full-year of oil and gas production from the field was accomplished safely.
2012 production from the field averaged 15,200 boepd net to Premier, ahead of the original development plans.
The price of oil cargoes sold from the field during the year averaged in excess of US$4.50 per barrel bbl over Brent.
The Chim So development drilling programme, which comprised nine producing wells and six injection wells, was completed safely and under budget in April 2012.
This programme was followed by three additional wells aimed at capturing upside resources identified during development.
Two wells were targeted at a fault terrace to the north west of the field: one was successful and commenced production at approximately 3,000 bopd in August: the second well, targeting a separate fault segment to the north, was dry.
Separately, a third well was drilled to accelerate production from a shallow reservoir with larger reserves than initially evaluated and was brought on-stream in September at a rate of about 2,000 bopd.
The Chim So field is currently producing 30 thousand barrels of oil per day kbopd, some 5 kbopd ahead of expectation at sanction, with potential for further increases to deliverability when power constraints currently impacting the FPSO are resolved.
The plan is to add power generation capacity to allow the water injection pumps to sustain reservoir pressure at higher production levels, and the compressors to export higher volumes of associated gas.
The development of the Premier-operated Dua oil field as a three well subsea tie-back to the Chim So facilities received partner sanction in the second quarter of 2012 and Prime Ministerial approval in August.
Installation of the main pipeline commenced in February 2013.
The field, which is forecast to average a gross production rate of 8-10 kboepd in the first 12 months, is expected on-stream in 2014.
Vietnam continued EXPLORATION In July 2012, Premier agreed to farm-in to the Origin Energy-operated Block 121, in the northern part of the under-explored Phu Khanh Basin, offshore central Vietnam, for a 40 per cent working interest.
The farm-in received government approval in February 2013.
Premier will pay its participating interest share in the drilling of the high risk Ca Voi prospect which is planned for May 2013.
The prospectivity of Block 121 centres on the untested Oligocene play fairway which Premier recognises as being geologically similar to the Cau formation that it has successfully explored in Blocks 12W and 07 03 in the Nam Con Son Basin.
Immediately after the high risk Ca Voi well, the Ocean General will move to drill ?
` - CRD-3X, which will appraise the C R ong Do CRD discovery, on Block 07 03.
The rig will then move to spud the wildcat exploration well on the Silver Sillago prospect also on Block 07 03 in mid-2013.
The well, 07-CD-1X, will evaluate the petroleum potential of a new sub-basin within the overall Nam Con Son Basin.
The Ocean General will then move to Indonesia where it will spud the Kuda Laut well on the Premier-operated Tuna Block.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 Outlook Optimising production from Chim So Dua expected on-stream in 2014 CRD appraisal well to be drilled in 2013 Play-opening Ca Voi well to be drilled in 2013
