Corporate social responsibility report We are committed to conducting our business with integrity and with care in so far as the social and environmental impact of our activities is concerned.
Introduction The CSR Committee was established to ensure that the principles At PZ Cussons we believe passionately in Doing Good Business.
of CSR remain at the core of the Groups business activities.
It is something we have been doing for over 125 years and it is a Reflecting the importance of CSR within the Group, each of the key part of our culture and who we are.
We are committed to Directors is a member of the CSR Committee.
Accordingly, the conducting our business with integrity and with care in so far as members of the CSR Committee are Simon Heale Chairman, the social and environmental impact of our activities is concerned.
Richard Harvey, Alex Kanellis, Chris Davis, Brandon Leigh, We aim to make a positive impact on society through the products John Pantelireis, Derek Lewis, John Arnold, James Steel and, which we sell, through the way in which our products are with effect from their appointment to the Board in January 2012, designed, manufactured and packaged and through the Ngozi Edozien and Helen Owers.
The Chairman of the CSR contributions we make to the communities in which we operate.
Committee reports to the Board on the Committees proceedings after each meeting on all matters within the scope of its duties This report sets out the Groups values and principles in relation to and responsibilities.
key aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR and how these have been put into practice during the year.
CSR describes how a The terms of reference of the CSR Committee and further details business: regarding its members are available on the Companys website recognises the ways in which its actions affect those www.
around it: and regulates those actions so that, consistent with sustainable The CSR Committee and the Board have reviewed and endorsed business and development, they have a positive impact.
We consider the principles of CSR to be integral to how the Doing Good Business Group conducts its operations and key to the results which the Our CSR values and principles are set out in a statement on Group has delivered in the past and to its continued success and Corporate Social Responsibility, called Doing Good Business.
In particular, we understand the potential The statement sets out The Big 6: the six principal areas in which benefits which may be derived where CSR activities are aligned our operations have the greatest potential to impact either to the concerns and demands of our stakeholders including our favourably or adversely upon our stakeholders.
shareholders, customers, consumers, suppliers, employees and the wider community and we listen to and take account of those Recognising that doing the right thing in business can sometimes concerns in shaping our business strategies and practices.
We also seem to involve difficult decisions, the statement is intended to recognise that companies are subject to increasing regulation, provide everyone throughout the Group and, at all levels within particularly in respect of environmental issues, and we believe that the business, with guidance on how to conduct their business the pursuit of a proactive and positive CSR policy reduces the risk activities and on what good business looks like at PZ Cussons.
It is also intended to motivate and support all our employees to identify and vigorously pursue opportunities across the Group to The PZ Cussons Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Committee optimise our activities so far as their social and environmental The Board is responsible for overseeing CSR within the Company, impact is concerned.
In doing so, it is the belief of the Board and supported by a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee the CSR Committee that we will make our business stronger, more CSR Committee.
sustainable and, as a consequence, more profitable.
PZ Cussons Plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 We believe that there should not be any conict orinconsistency between being a successful, profitable organisation and, at the same time, running our operations so that they have a positive impact on society.
On the contrary, we believe that being socially responsible is value enhancing for our shareholders and all of our otherstakeholders.
In other words, we simply believe in Doing Good Business!
The environment We are committed to protecting the environment for the benefit of our employees and the public at large.
Page 22 for further information Health and safety We provide safe working environments for all our employees, contractors and visitors.
Page 26 for further information The Statement is in place across all of the Groups businesses and Consumer safety The health and safety its policies and principles apply to every Director, manager and of our consumers is our paramount employee in all our businesses across our global operations.
We will never A copy of the full Doing Good Business Statement on Corporate compromise it for any reason.
Social Responsibility is available on the Companys website www.
Page 26 for further information The Committees activities during the year During the year, the principal matters for the Committee Business conduct and ethics We have included: demonstrate ethical behaviour in all our business activities and in all our Profit with a purpose dealings with third parties.
Earlier this year the Committee adopted Group targets in respect of four key areas where our business impacts upon the environment: packaging, carbon emissions, water and Page 28 for further information waste.
Further details of those targets and our performance are set out on the following pages Our employees We treat each other with respect and all employees have Consumer safety The safety and wellbeing of our consumers has always been of the right to expect that their dignity will paramount importance to us.
During the year, the Committee be fully respected in the workplace.
adopted a new Group Consumer Safety Policy, supported by a Group Materials of Concern Policy and the establishment of a Page 28 for further information senior level Consumer Safety Steering Team, to ensure consistent safety standards and practices across all of our operations regardless of differences in local regulations and that Local community and charity We any emerging issues are effectively managed recognise our responsibilities to society Communication and, in particular, to the local communities The Committee has continued to sponsor communication in which we operate.
We are committed programmes across all operating units, explaining the to enriching the lives of our local importance of The Big 6 to all aspects of our operations and communities.
asking our employees to share their CSR stories.
Some of those stories are set out in this report Page 30 for further information PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 Co Cor rp po or ra at te e s so oc ci ia al l r re es sp po on ns si ib bi il li it ty y r re ep po or rt t co con nt ti in nu ue ed d The environment We recognise that our business has an impact upon the A summary of projects carried out during the year as part of environment, both through our manufacturing and logistics the journey to delivering on our environmental commitments is operations and through our manufactured products and the way in set out below.
which they are used by our consumers.
We also recognise that we have a responsibility to all of our stakeholders to run our business in ways which minimise the adverse impacts and make a Carbon positive contribution to meeting global environmental challenges.
We aim to identify and vigorously pursue opportunities across our Group to reduce our reliance on increasingly scarce materials and Our planet is getting warmer with many damaging consequences.
to minimise our impact on the environment while delivering It is a global problem to which we all need to respond and as a margin improvement and continuing to build a sustainable business we are committed to doing our bit.
business, thereby creating a win:win both for the environment and our business.
We call our approach Profit with a Purpose.
We are focused on measuring and reducing the emissions associated with the fuels used to produce energy from our Environmental targets set factories, either via direct consumption of fossil fuels such as In previous reports we have stated our commitment to the diesel oils or gas or via indirect electricity consumed in the continuous improvement of our environmental performance by: factories.
Key elements of our approach are conservation of reporting and reducing the Groups carbon footprint: energy, finding alternative more fuel efficient processes and minimising waste: and using alternative low carbon sources of energy.
efficient use of energy, water and other natural resources in our office, factory and warehouse environments.
Our absolute direct CO emissions i. e. Scope 1 and Scope 2, see 2 diagram on page 23 for the last four years have been 147,729 This has continued during the past year and, to bring greater metric tonnes 2008 09, 133,181 metric tonnes 2009 10, 141,083 focus to this process and to motivate our local businesses and metric tonnes 2010 11 and 123,621 metric tonnes 2011 12.
Since employees, we have set targets in four key environmental areas: 2008 09 we have reduced our absolute carbon emissions by 16.3%.
We have achieved a 12.4% reduction in carbon versus last year against an increase of 4.5% in production tonnage.
This was principally delivered by our Nigerian business which has been able to implement more efficient processes and has moved to more Carbon Packaging carbon efficient fuels.
We recognise that, given the significant progress which we have made in recent years, continuous improvement on our 2011 12 base - - % line will become increasingly challenging but we are committed to 12% 10 reducing our carbon emissions further and are already planning initiatives across our businesses to meet our new target.
12% reduction in 10% reduction in our carbon footprint our packaging weight Absolute carbon emissions for Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 2015 by 2015 percentage reduction of total CO versus total CO 2 2 baseline of 2008 09 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total CO Scope 1 and Scope 2 2 -9.8% -4.5% -16.3% Waste Water - % - % 15 10 15% reduction in 10% reduction in our waste disposed of water consumption by 2015 by 2015 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 PZ Cussons Plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our carbon footprint scope Scope 1 Direct Scope 2 Indirect Usage Usage Electricity purchased Fuel combustion in for use in our factories our own factories.
Gas and within our ofces including LPG, diesel, oil, world wide.
Scope 3 and other indirect emissions are outside of our Carbon footprint at present time Areas 1 Employee business and commuting travel 1 2 3 4 2 Emissions associated with distribution 3 Emissions associated with third party manufacturer 4 Production of purchased materials To date we have already delivered some significant savings in In Greece, energy saving activity resulted in a reduction of 770 carbon across our business: metric tonnes of carbon which represents a 9.5% reduction in the overall footprint of that business.
This has been achieved through a variety of projects ranging from separating the cooled loading bays into two to prevent the loss of cool air when loading trucks, upgrading refrigeration equipment and changing lights in the warehouse to low energy bulbs at our Schimatari site In Nigeria our total operations have reduced carbon emissions by 9.7% Scope 1 and Scope 2 from a 2010 11 baseline against an increase in production volume of 9.7% driven mainly by improved efficiencies and moving to lower carbon fuels.
For example, at our Ilupeju manufacturing site we completed our conversion of the diesel generators to operate on a combination of diesel and gas Carbon Disclosure Project CDP The Company has continued its commitment to participate in the CDP.
The CDP is an independent, not-for-profit organisation working to drive down greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable water use by businesses and cities.
The CDP operates the only global climate metric In May 2012 our Kenyan factory change reporting system, gathering data on company strategies and tonnes successful installed and performance with regard to carbon emissions and water use.
As a 1,273 commissioned a five metric tonnes business we have been participating in the CDP for the last four of carbon saved this year per hour Biomass fuelled boiler years with a continued commitment to reduce our carbon footprint.
to provide steam and hot water for Currently we report on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
We have an the factory, saving 1,273 metric ambition to ultimately work to Scope 3 which includes transportation tonnes of carbon per year, which and contract manufacturing activity and hope to be able to measure equates to 65% of the Kenyan our carbon impact within Scope 3 in the coming years.
The Biomass boiler burns organic waste which would otherwise have gone to landfill.
By using this organic waste, we are able to put a waste crop to good use and avoid the burning of fossil fuels.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 Corporate social responsibility report continued Packaging Waste Packaging not only consumes global resources but also generates Waste can have a significant impact on the environment, whether waste once our consumers have used the product.
Whilst we it is solid waste sent to landfill, burnt, or effluent.
We recognise that recognise that eliminating packaging is not a realistic target, it is wastage occurs through our manufacturing processes whether our ambition to reduce the amount of packaging which we use in in the form of packaging from incoming goods, non-conforming our products and we also encourage our consumers to reuse products which require disposal or water used for cleaning our plant and recycle.
By striving to reduce the level of waste we generate we can have a positive impact on the environment In order to meet our targets for the coming years, we will optimise by reducing the levels of natural resources which we consume and existing packaging formats through light weighting, optimising the solid waste which goes to landfill.
This also delivers significant structural and material design and eliminating unnecessary financial savings for the business.
packaging materials, while also ensuring that a right by design philosophy is used for all future packaging initiatives.
Total waste for disposal is our key management measure to ensure that we reduce the level of waste which we generate.
The total Packaging reduction projects that we have delivered include: waste figure which we consider comprises of solid waste, including waste which is recycled, plus the strength of effluent as measured by Chemical Oxygen Demand COD.
As our aim is to ultimately eliminate waste generated, we have included recycled waste Our operating unit in Greece has successfully light weighted to help drive a culture of elimination of waste rather than one their range of tubs used for Feta cheese and Benecol white of recycling.
We recognise a zero waste culture is an ambitious cheese sold under the Horio and Benecol brand respectively.
one: however, we will continue to encourage and support finding They have also light weighted their two litre PET bottles used secondary uses or recycling of waste in a responsible manner to for our Horio, Minerva and Mana brands of Extra Virgin Olive avoid sending waste to landfill and would expect to see a shift in the Oils, Olive Pomace oils, Corn oil, Sunflower oil and Niki Fry percentages of waste recycled or reused versus that which is sent seed oil.
In total, these projects have successfully saved to landfill.
19.8 metric tonnes of plastic We have just started our journey on delivering against our waste metric tonnes target and so far our operating unit in Poland has successfully implemented a project to reduce the amount of waste water 19.8 3 discharged into the public drainage system by 40,800m by of plastic reduction through separating water which is used for cooling from water which is reduced packaging used in the manufacture of our products.
The business has also installed a treatment plant for effluent generated during the manufacturing of our personal wash products.
This effluent plant has enabled us to reduce the waste sent to a specialist treatment contractor by 30%.
Water Water scarcity is an increasing threat to the worlds population In the UK, work has concluded on reducing the weight of our and it has been estimated that by the year 2025 two thirds of the Morning Fresh 450ml, Imperial Leather Handwash 300ml and worlds population could be facing serious water shortages.
We Carex Handwash 333ml bottles and we will be starting also recognise that we operate in regions which are defined as production at the end of July 2012.
The light weighting has water scarce, water stressed or water vulnerable as defined by enabled us to reduce the amount of plastic we buy by 139 the United Nations and that consequently we play a role in metric tonnes.
We have identified further savings to ensuring that water resources are used in an efficient and implement in the coming years responsible way.
A large part of the water footprint of our products is associated with our consumers use of our washing and bathing products and, if we are to do all we can to reduce water usage, we will not only need to focus on the water footprint of our manufacturing processes but also on that of our consumers.
However, we are at the start of our journey and so will initially only focus on the volume of water which we directly abstract during the manufacturing process, including water which is extracted for cooling, even if it is returned to water courses after use.
PZ Cussons Plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 PZ Wilmar In December 2010, we announced the expansion of our Food and Nutrition operations in Nigeria through the establishment of a food ingredients joint venture with Singapore based Wilmar International Limited, one of Asias leading agribusiness groups.
Palm oil is an integral part of Nigerian culture and cuisine.
However, the Nigerian palm industry, once a world leader, has declined in recent decades and the country is currently in a net deficit position of production versus demand.
Domestic product is often produced in unhygienic conditions and widely sold in discarded second-hand water bottles.
One of the largest single agro-investments in Nigeria, our PZ Wilmar business is committed to helping to rejuvenate Nigerias palm oil industry from plantation to plate by: building a state of the art palm oil refinery and packaging operation scheduled for commissioning later this year : investing in the development of plantations to world class standards: and producing palm oil based products to world class quality, health and nutritional standards.
There are a number of benefits for Nigeria and its people: Safe, hygienic, good quality and affordable cooking ingredients in tamper proof packaging Job creation in rural and agricultural areas it is anticipated that the business will result in the creation of many thousands of indirect jobs including jobs with local farmers and outgrowers Investment in local schools and medical facilities Greater economic self sufficiency with a reduction in Nigerias As this is a new focus area for us we have just started to identify supply shortage by 300,000 metric tonnes and the opportunities to make savings in our water consumption.
development of agricultural best practice Palm oil is indigenous to Nigeria and therefore it does not compete against local food crops or vegetation.
The Sustainable sourcing establishment of local plantations also fits our Group commitment to use raw materials from sustainable and Palm oil environmentally friendly sources.
Palm oil is the most widely traded vegetable oil in the world and is used in many food and household products.
Over 85% of the worlds palm oil comes from Indonesia and Malaysia, where land is sometimes cleared of forest for palm plantations, resulting in greenhouse gas emissions, and a loss of wildlife habitat.
In common with our competitors, certain parts of our businesses utilise palm oil and we share the concerns of our consumers and other stakeholders in relation to palm oil sourcing, end use and the potential for damage to the environment.
In recognition of these concerns, PZ Cussons committed to membership of the Round table for Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO in 2010.
The RSPO, which was formed in 2004, is a not-for-profit association which unites members from across all sectors of the sustainable forest management practises are used.
As stated palm oil industry including oil palm producers, traders, consumer above, we are already focusing on reducing the amount of goods manufacturers, retailers, banks and investors and NGOs packaging and anticipate that this will also include the weight of and pressure groups with the objective of promoting the growth wood pulp which we consume.
and use of sustainable palm oil products through credible global standards and engagement of stakeholders.
PZ Cussons is Forest Footprint Disclosure project committed to promoting and communicating RSPO values across PZ Cussons participates annually in the Forest Footprint our supply chain and has committed to move to 100% Certified Disclosure FFD project.
This is a special project of the Global Sustainable Palm Oil via the use of RSPO approved supply chain Canopy Foundation, initiated in 2008.
The FFD engages with mechanisms by 31 May 2015. private sector companies in respect of disclosure of their current understanding of their forest footprint based on exposure to five Wood pulp key commodities soy, palm oil, timber, cattle products and PZ Cussons uses wood pulp for labels to put onto our bottles and biofuels.
We report on our use of palm oil and on the timber packages, in boxes for our products and in corrugated boxes and sectors of the FDD.
trays used for transporting our products from our factories to our customers.
Though we do not directly buy wood pulp or own or Our participation in the FDD has improved corporate awareness of manage forests, we recognise that we have a responsibility to the issues around the maintenance of tropical forests resources in ensure that the products which we procure are from sustainable developing countries and has led us to start to assess our supply sources and minimise our requirements for wood pulp.
We have chain in order to establish targets for use of certified sustainable just started our journey to improve our understanding of wood palm oil, for sourcing sustainable wood pulp fibre and to drive a pulp fibre, drive transparency in sourcing, and ensure that reduction in consumption.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 Corporate social responsibility report continued Health and safety Lost time incidents and first aid cases PZ Cussons is committed to having safe and healthy operations around the world and we continually strive to improve health and safety standards across all of our operating units.
We seek to provide FY 2010 11 FY 2011 12 safe working environments for all our employees, contractors and 2.5 visitors and to ensure compliance with all relevant health and safety laws and regulations at all our places of operation.
2.0 It is, therefore, with great sadness that we report that during the 1.5 year an industrial accident resulted in the death of an employee.
The accident was immediately reported to the relevant authorities 1.0 and an internal investigation was also launched into the causes of the accident.
Improvement actions and learnings have been 0.5 communicated across the whole of the Group to prevent any recurrence.
The Company has conveyed its deepest condolences to the family of the deceased.
LTI frequency rate First aid case frequency rate We remain determined to drive continuous improvement across all of our businesses.
We use regular internal and external audits to help drive continuous improvement, and all operating units participate in the PZ Cussons World Class Manufacturing programme delivering compliance checks and identification of improvement opportunities.
Consumer safety Two of our operating units, PZ Cussons UK and PZ Cussons Indonesia, are certified in an internationally recognised Occupational Health and Safety management system, OHSAS 18001 and we have plans The safety of our products is of paramount concern to our to roll this out across other operating units over the coming years.
At each stage of the product development, PZ Cussons Nigeria has already started a programme to achieve this materials sourcing and manufacturing processes we assess: certification.
Further, Nigeria is also implementing risk assessment whether products pose any immediate health risk during use procedures with near miss or hazard identification procedures such as interactions with the hair and skin : HAZOP & HAZID.
In all operating units employees are positively the potential longer-term impact on consumer health through encouraged to identify and report hazards or near misses and to use of materials with poor or unknown safety records: personally conduct work place risk assessments as part of personal that products are fit for purpose at the time of use and have objectives.
undergone appropriate stability testing and manufacturing trials before reaching the market: and The business tracks and reports two key health and safety that we have considered reasonable foreseeable conditions of performance indicators in all operating units: Lost Time Incidents use and used appropriate pack warnings and safety features LTI per 200,000 hours worked and First Aid Cases FAC per 200,000 such as child proof closures when needed.
LTIs include all health and safety occurrences which result in one day or more absence from work excluding the day of We fully comply with all relevant legislation in the markets in which incident : FAC include all health and safety occurrences including we operate and, where regulations allow, we adopt a common LTIs which result in the employee being given first aid.
FAC include standard across the Group.
As an example of this approach: cases where employees are treated for incidents which occur outside the European Union Cosmetics Directive is our standard for of the workplace, as any treatment given may enable us to reduce the personal care products in all markets: number of employee days lost.
The FACs indicator was introduced to in our electricals and white goods business in Africa, we only enable us to continue to improve our health and safety performance source products from suppliers who are accredited with the as we had successfully reduced LTIs in some operating units to an Conformite Europeenne CE Mark which certifies that their extremely low level for example, one of our UK operations has now products meet European Union health, safety, and operated for over 1,200 days nearly four years without a LTI.
environmental requirements: and in our food business in Greece, Codex Alimentarius, EU As the graph following shows, we have successfully reduced regulation 852 2004 and HACCP principles on the hygiene of LTI frequency by 18.0% as a Group to a frequency rate of 0.41 per foodstuffs are all applied.
Our factory also has BRC, ISO-9001 200,000 hours worked and FACs have reduced by 14.1% to and ISO-22000 certification.
Our LTI frequency rate is better than industry standards: however, we will continue to drive We adopt a precautionary approach to material usage.
In Europe improvement of these rates even further in the future.
we follow ReaCh regulations Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of CHemicals for controlling chemicals and use the Substances of Very High Concern SVHC list to guide our materials policy within the Group.
Where we believe there are reasonable grounds to restrict or prohibit the use of a material, we will do so ahead of legislation.
PZ Cussons Plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Frequency per 200,000 hours worked Our technical teams actively work with industry associations Consumer safety steering team and regulatory bodies to ensure we are aware of legislative We have established a senior level steering team to guide and requirements and work proactively to help shape the industry direct our approach to consumer safety and policy deployment.
response to managing future issues.
Where necessary, we use This team will ensure a common Group approach is adopted and specialist expertise, such as Toxicologists, as part of the product that actions are implemented swiftly in all parts of the business.
The team will meet quarterly and be advised by experienced functional heads from around the Group.
We apply the same standards to consumer safety whether our products are developed and manufactured in our own factories or Managing Materials of Concern externally sourced.
We have adopted a Group Materials of Concern list which formalises our approach to material selection and acts as the vehicle for communication around the Group.
Where there Cosmetic product safety are reasonable grounds for concern on consumer safety or All products designed for the European and Asian market are environmental impact, we will adopt a cautionary approach and developed to meet the requirements of the EU Cosmetics materials may be restricted or prohibited ahead of any legislation Directive and products designed for Africa will do so by July being put in place.
We recognise that many of these issues are 2013.
The EU Cosmetics Directive represents the highest complex and the following factors will be considered before any safety standard and requires a detailed Cosmetic Product action is taken: Safety Report to be done for every product before being The latest scientific or clinical evidence and the opinion of placed on the market.
recognised chemical safety bodies The global regulatory status of the material The functionality of the ingredient and the availability, cost and safety profile of alternative materials What would be appropriate actions proportionate to the scale of the issue The Materials of Concern will be regularly reviewed by the Consumer Safety Steering Team and decisions to impose restrictions will be ratified by it.
Personal Care Centre, Agecroft Laboratories, UK PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Corporate social responsibility report continued Business conduct and ethics Our employees We aim to demonstrate ethical behaviour in all our business Our employees are essential to the success of our business and to activities and in all our dealings with third parties.
We value our achieving our business goals.
We value and celebrate the diversity relationships with our customers, suppliers and other business of every member of our team of over 7,000 employees, working in partners and we demonstrate respect and integrity in our dealings ten countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, and North America.
We also recognise that we are only as good as the third PZ Cussons is committed to a culture where all employees are parties with whom we partner and we expect our suppliers and treated with respect and have the right to expect that their dignity contractors to demonstrate similar high ethical standards and an will be fully respected in the workplace.
We are committed to alignment with our values and principles.
We take due account of creating an environment in which all employees have the this when establishing or continuing business relationships.
opportunity to reach their full potential and where everyone has a voice regardless of role, seniority or geography.
Bribery Act Building on work already initiated as part of our commitment on Business Ethics, the Group has taken action to ensure continuing compliance with the UK Bribery Act since it came into effect earlier in the year.
The Board, advised by our external legal advisors, has initiated a number of actions during the year, including: a risk assessment across the Group, particularly within territories or areas which are perceived as high risk: starting the process of incorporating our Business Conduct and Ethics standards and other Big 6 values into contract tender and audit processes and decision making: refreshing our global Speak Up whistleblower policy which was established in 2008 to ensure that employees may report any concerns over business practice, confidentially and without fear of recrimination, through a telephone hotline and online facility provided by a third party expert.
Speak Up is particularly focused on any allegation or concern of malpractice including concerns over breaches of health and safety, criminal activity or fraud and breaches of local laws or environmental regulations Employee engagement and incorporates procedures which ensure that any such issues We conducted our first full employee engagement survey in 2010. can be brought promptly to the attention of the Board and This was based on the opinions of more than 75% of our employees addressed at the earliest opportunity: and calibrated against global FMCG norms.
The employee the production of Codes of Conduct for key staff: and engagement survey enabled each operating unit to develop its the integration of anti-bribery provisions into key commercial own unique action plan to address key areas for improvement.
A follow up survey was carried out in November 2011 and enabled We are committed to rolling out a further communication us to check on progress against action plans and to challenge programme for all staff in the year to come and to putting in ourselves to make progress against the targets which we had set.
place formal compliance training for key staff.
Overall seven out of ten of the survey categories have seen a significant improvement since last year.
Of particular note is the Codes of conduct continued progress in: During the year we have continued the process of informing and Communication and Integrity and Respect, achieved a 7% and educating our suppliers in respect of our Big 6 values and related a 6% improvement, respectively in their satisfaction ratings codes of conduct.
Going forward, we are committed to continuing compared to last year: and that process and to ensuring that compliance and alignment with Communication and Managing Change where we were rated our values are an integral part of the supplier selection, significantly above our benchmark global consumer goods engagement and auditing processes.
Animal testing PZ Cussons donated 1 to UNICEF for every completed employee Our position on animal testing remains as it has for many years.
Having done two surveys now, we have donated a We do not conduct safety testing on animals in respect of any of total of 10,000. our products, nor do we commission others to do so on our behalf.
We recognise that in some regulatory environments there is a requirement to do so we do not operate in those countries or product sectors.
We support the development of alternative test methods and the stated intention of the EU to remove completely the need for any testing on animals in the cosmetics industry.
PZ Cussons Plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Performance management Developing PZ Cussons talent Managing performance at PZ Cussons is more than just a set of We are committed to the training and development of our activities and forms.
It is an everyday way of working to improve employees and have delivered more than 200 training courses performance by taking action to coach and motivate our people.
across the globe in our operating units.
The training courses are a We measure performance based on business objectives aligned combination of management competency and technical skills to team, function, operating unit and global business strategies in training and have included: conjunction with behaviours assessed against key competencies.
187 leaders and future leaders from every operating unit Together these provide a rating which is linked to reward and to participated in our award winning global leadership programme.
our global talent and succession planning activity.
This enables us 2011 Peer Awards in Excellence in Leading and Development.
to develop and motivate high performing and high potential The course was developed in-house and run in conjunction with individuals providing them with challenging and exciting careers.
Corporate Executive Coaching CECO and was designed to help Our performance development and review programmes have now employees recognise their skills, strengths and weaknesses been rolled out globally and have been in place for two years.
and so develop as leaders within the business.
The course is now being applied in the operating units as a future leaders programme: and our Graduate Development Programme in Nigeria has been As an ongoing commitment to personal development and running in excess of ten years, directly recruiting circa 30 developing the Research and Development R&D capability in Nigerian graduates from across the country every year.
the African businesses, members of the R&D team in Nigeria and Kenya have successfully attained a Diploma in Cosmetic Diversity and inclusion Science from the UK Society of Cosmetic Scientists through a PZ Cussons is an extremely diverse organisation in terms of distance learning programme.
The course is recognised by the its ethnic and cultural make-up and this is something that we Royal Society of Chemistry and is endorsed by the Cosmetic, continue to promote.
We employ many different nationalities Toiletry and Perfumery Association CTPA.
The Diploma including Indian, Chinese, Polish, Indonesian, Thai, Greek, course gives an excellent grounding in cosmetic science, Australian, Nigerian, Ghanaian, Kenyan and British.
We also including modules on formulation development, quality value diversity in respect of gender and age: and product testing.
% % 30 42 Women employees Women senior managers % % 7.4 19.6 Employees with over Employees over 50 15 years service We do not employ any person below the local legal working age and we will not, in any circumstances, employ anyone below the age of 16.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29 Corporate social responsibility report continued Local community and charity We operate in a number of different countries with diverse ethnic cultures and socio-economic dynamics.
As a business, we recognise our responsibilities to society and in particular, to those local communities in which we operate.
Employees across all of our operating units have continued to show real commitment to supporting their local communities and charities: PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation In Nigeria, support for the Foundation has continued.
The Foundation was established in 2007 with the objective to positively impact local communities through schemes related to education, health, potable water and infrastructure.
34 projects in 23 locations around Nigeria have been supported since the Foundation was established, including the following projects this year: PZ Cussons Foundation EDUcare Inspiration Youth Centre, Ibadan A Youth Inspiration Centre was built by the PZ Cussons Foundation and donated to the Educare Trust an Education and Health NGO.
Opening of EDUcare Inspiration Youth Centre The Centre has been established to help Nigerian youths who might otherwise have become involved in criminal activity due to unemployment or boredom.
Sustainable Water Sanitation and Hygiene SWASH with Concern Universal The Foundation partnered with the charity Concern Universal to help improve water sanitation and hygiene for five different communities in Nigeria.
The main element of the project was the construction of hand boreholes and individual household latrines to improve sanitation for those living in the communities.
Expanding a medical facility in Bells University, Otta The Foundation assisted the medical facility at Bells University, Otta through the construction of a new building which comprises Hand borehole constructed in Nigeria of four wards with adjoining bathrooms, a treatment room, store and a lounge.
This has improved conditions for both the medical team and patients attending the clinic.
Training of Primary School Teachers in Jigawa State College of Education The Foundation was approached to assist the Jigawa State College of Education JSCOE in its key role of training teachers needed in the primary school system in Gumel.
The Foundation has begun a three year partnership with Voluntary Services Overseas VSO to assist with providing the required expatriate teachers to help with this training.
Medical facility in Bells University, Otta PZ Cussons Plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Nigeria In the UK, both the operating unit and head office employees were busy supporting local charities with a variety of activities: Salford Academy PZ Cussons has been working with Salford Academy for several years to offer pupils different opportunities to learn life and work skills.
This year we worked with students on how to make a profitable shampoo which the students could sell in school to raise money.
This project covered Maths, English, Science, ICT, Citizenship and also taught them about careers and communication skills.
Students learnt responsibility, communication skills and the value of teamwork.
Seashell Trust The Seashell Trust is a residential special school based in Manchester supporting children and young people with sensory impairments and profound learning and communication difficulties.
The Trust and PZ Cussons have now been working together for two years on research to investigate and evaluate how olfaction might affect and support the development of communication of students with multi-sensory impairment.
The project has been looking at how bespoke fragrances can improve a childs understanding and communication including the ability of these children to make choices.
For example, simple choices such as food or drink based on smell have now been successfully introduced into the curriculum.
Further research has also taken place, and ia aimed at enhancing multi-sensory experiences for students such as releasing the scent of burning wood at Bonfire Night celebrations.
The work has attracted international interest from America and Denmark and we are currently evaluating how the project might be Our employees in Greece have supported the municipalities of extended to assist dementia sufferers.
Schimatari, Snt Dimitrios Ioannina and Andravida by providing poor and homeless people with a charity food bank.
Thailand and Indonesia, where two of our businesses are located, were affected by natural disasters during the year.
Our factory in Thailand was only protected from flooding by the extraordinary efforts of our employees who, working around the clock to help strengthen the site flood defences, were able to keep the flood waters at bay when most neighbouring facilities were under water.
The Board would like to say a special thank you to all of those employees for their amazing efforts.
Up to 50 of our employees were directly affected by the flooding and so our facility became their home.
Offices were converted to provide basic living facilities including food, clean water and laundry facilities and a People Centre was set up to provide support for all our employees including health education and health screening at a time of increased risk of infection.
Indonesia also suffered severe flooding in parts of the country.
Employees in our operating units were generous in fundraising to help colleagues affected by the flooding, which enabled, with the support of the business, the distribution of flood survival packs to all employees, financial support and access to loans.
Local schools impacted by the flood were also supported with donations and survival bags.
Our operating unit in Poland established the Carex Clean Hands Academy in 2011 with the objective to reach 11,000 schools to educate elementary and middle school children on hand hygiene.
The programme is in its second year and continues to offer educational materials for schools, to run demonstrations from medical experts and competitions for children and teachers with 300 schools joining the programme this year.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31 Poland UK Thailand and Indonesia Greece
