D E, Chairman S Our h employees hae access to an that an indiidual can take if they wish Throughout the Group we consider the Employee Wellbeing Programme that to progress.
We hae also signed a threesafety and wellbeing of our people to be a proides informaon and support on year agreement with killso, a proider priority.
We ensure we proide safe places financial, legal and family maers and of global e-learning business courses and to work and proide releant training for counselling.
In the h, employees also hae online books on Engineering and IT.
This is access to a benets package Benets We hae introduced a new leadership underpinned by clear leadership and, where and a new wellbeing portal Be Healthy.
programme to increase our leadership necessary, improement programmes.
These proide an ecellent package capability.
The Adanced Programme of healthcare benets, an employee In the h, our RIDDOR Reporng for eaders targets our senior leaders to assistance programme, and a purchase of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous ensure we hae consistent and strong discount scheme.
YNA has epanded its Occurrences Regulaons rate for this year role model behaiours around our e Health in Moon program by introducing was 2.12 per 1,000 employees, which is leadership behaiours, the e Es Energy, Vitality, a comprehensie, interace and well below the all industries benchmark Ecite, Eecute, Engage and Empower.
We hae set The Foundaon Programme for eadership challenging targets in the h to gain OH A proides a range of targeted modules in 18001 by 2013 and to reduce reportable leadership and performance management W incidents to zero by 2014.
To meet these, for those in first line-manager roles.
we hae introduced a number of iniaes We hae also introduced coaching and including pilong a new training module monitoring to increase our coaching culture.
called YineY Visible Ace eadership In sales, we hae rolled out High Value YVA, which focus on safety culture and ales and negoaon skills training for all behaiour.
The YVA package enables the employees inoled in releant roles and business to create a bespoke programme hae deeloped a training path for Project to meet its indiidual needs.
Programmes, Managers which is eternally accredited such as My Contribuon and Acons.
by the Associaon of Project Management.
peak ouder Than Words are designed Our talent programme aims to idenfy S E, Director of afety, to engage our employees in maintaining our future leaders.
YNA connues to Assurance and ustainability a safe place to work.
We introduced a work with the Darden Business chool Health, afety and Enironment H &E at the hniersity of Virginia to deelop eadership Benchmark, which is a simple future leaders.
For YNA technical E assessment of an indiiduals behaiour employees, the focus is on proiding We take great pride in the calibre of our and acons in relaon to safety and specialist technical training, ensuring people and are commied to a range of enironmental issues.
The benchmark knowledge is rapidly deployed.
employee deelopment iniaes, for all aims to proide a consistent approach to career stages, from inducon to leadership.
E seng indiidual H &E objeces for our A range of channels, from intranet management team and senior leaders.
No In the h, we are promong the concept and emails to posters, team meengs prosecuons or prohibion or improement of employability: the idea that working and townhall meengs with senior noces were issued by regulators.
We were with us, people will be more employable management, are used to engage with delighted to receie again a Gold award and beer posioned in their future career employees.
In the h, the Employee from the Royal ociety for the Preenon moes.
To support this, we hae introduced Engagement Group EEG, a new employee of Accidents RO PA, which indicates the career deelopment frameworks for engagement forum was established.
The strength of our safety performance.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
