B C & was 3,500 tonnes, including 72 tonnes C In Australia, we proide a range of of hazardous waste.
More than 70% of Across the Group, employees support their opportunies for employees to contribute our waste was dierted from landll.
communies by olunteering their me to a range of charies while simultaneously and professional skills.
compeng in physically demanding pursuits.
Recycling programmes operate across much As an eample, the okoda Challenge creates of QNA.
Recycling and separaon of waste In the h, we hae introduced a new opportunies for teams of four to complete is the norm in QineQ Australia with the Employee Volunteering cheme to build a 24-hour trek in outh-east Queensland to focus on waste reducon now at the top of on a range of ad-hoc programmes and replicate the trials of Australian forces that the agenda, including reducon in prinng make it easier to monitor and measure baled along the okoda Track in Papua and copying and more ecient use of success.
Employees connued to focus on New Guinea during WWII.
The teams raised producon materials.
work with schools, through programmes Ah 4,600 for the charity, which helps such as the TEM cience, Technology, S disadantaged teenagers.
Engineering, Maths Academy and the We connue to insl a responsible and QineQ Powerboat Challenge, with the sustainable approach to the way we work aim of inspiring the net generaon of with our customers and suppliers.
As an sciensts and engineers.
Employees are ace member of the h MOD ustainable also using their professional skills, such as Procurement Working Group, we are our inolement in the Young Enterprise commied to compleng the annual selfprogramme and with local charies.
We assessment on water, waste and carbon connue to promote this programme to the laer through the Carbon Disclosure benefit communies in which we operate Project.
We hae proided training for our as well as to deelop our people.
Engineers h buyers on topics such as bribery in the in our cience for ociety programme supply chain.
The h trategic ourcing hae proided technical adice to Nonteam has introduced a new buying model Goernment Organisaons working in aos embedding sustainability.
on the disposal of uneploded ordnance We connue to deelop new technology hyO, for the past si years.
During a recent ideas to contribute to global enironmental isit to Mahay district in hammouane problems, such as the need for renewable proince, the team proided adice energy.
Our Energy from Waste team has on sustainable technologies and training.
created a demonstrator of their pyrolysis QNA also recognises the importance of unit at our Farnborough Head Oce and young people pursuing TEM careers and trials are ongoing.
so supports iniaes, such as robot A major part of our h business is the challenges.
They also support a range deliery of test and ealuaon and of fundraising acies for military and training support serices to the h MOD.
The work is conducted on MOD sites, many In total, across the Group, charitable of which are designated conseraon areas.
donaons from the business amounted As a result, we carry out sustainability to 108,400.
In the h, employees hae appraisals to idenfy and migate any chosen new charies to support Cancer impact to the ora, fauna and any other Research h, RN I and Help for Heroes sensie receptors.
and these will connue to receie matched funding for any acies.
h employees also raised a further 53,978 through fundraising and payroll giing.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
