CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED EEG has been introduced to proide an We are commied to the fair treatment net three years and, this year, introduced all-inclusie structure to improe employee of people with disabilies in relaon to solar panels at our Farnborough site.
More than applicaons, training, promoon and career connue to report annually through the 40 representaes, elected by employees, deelopment.
If an eisng employee Carbon Disclosure Project.
from across the business will work together becomes disabled, the Groups policy is The Australian business is now collecng to facilitate greater engagement.
The EEG to proide connuing employment and data on energy consumpon and trael, will play an ace role in monitoring and training, whereer praccable.
which are reported here for the first me feeding back on employee iews.
6.5 GWh of electricity use and 280 tonnes E The Australian business has introduced a from air trael.
In the h, we hae introduced a new team of CO 2 half-yearly Employee Engagement urey of enironmental adisors, which is working to monitor the eect of acons intended closely with our eisng network of health, to improe employee engagement.
At QNA, T C safety and enironmental adisors, to employees aend townhall meengs and help drie connuous improement in our T S parcipate in employee sureys.
We connue focus groups hae been introduced to to maintain I O14001:2004 cercaon reiew communicaon messages and for our estate and those sites we manage channels to improe the disseminaon on behalf of the MOD.
managing our business on, or close to, areas of naonal and internaonal importance The My Contribuon programme connues for conseraon, such as ites of pecial to delier results with oer 9,000 ideas cienc Interests I, and on t ilda, submied in the h, deliering oer 20m a World Heritage ite.
Nearly half the h workforce has submied an idea.
This concept is being C. adapted for roll-out in QNA.
Our h Carbon Management Group connues to focus on iniaes to reduce C :, Director of E energy use and trael.
The table below hared erices As a Company that operates internaonally, shows our year-on-year progress.
We we employ and work with people from a were pleased to obtain recercaon of wide range of backgrounds and cultures.
W the Carbon Trust tandard for our work We are commied to a workplace free of We hae set ourseles the target in the in measuring and managing energy and discriminaon and this is reected in the h to improe our waste management, were ranked 195th out of 2,103 in the way we recruit, hire, train and promote, focusing on the complete waste hierarchy h Goernments Carbon Reducon and proide condions of employment.
We are mapping Commitment Energy Eciency cheme.
The Board recognises the benets of Board and re-eamining our waste-streams and Employees connue to be engaged in diersity and will work towards goernment re-baselining our data.
We hae appointed low-carbon iniaes through the Energy recommendaons and industry best an Asset Management ead, to nd Champion network and campaigns, as pracce, while always ensuring that all ways of opmising our assets, through well as contribung ideas through the Board Directors are appointed on merit.
to disposal, but with a significant focus on My Contribuon programme.
We hae re-use across the business and reducing also commied to purchase our h procurement.
