h Zs TRUSTED TO DELIVER YineYs thought leadership in the approach to the design and deliery of training and simulaon sector is founded open architecture training systems, while on a decades-long heritage of world-class also bidding into a h 2.2bn addressable research with the h s MOD, combined with training and simulaon market.
a record of deliering high-delity and costIn the commercial sector, we are deploying eece military training.
highly deeloped simulaon systems, Most recently, we hae etended our combined with a unique approach to eperse through pioneering the use of construcng focused and innoae eeryday gaming technologies to create training support.
We are, for eample, more aordable and eible synthec deeloping safety-crical training for training enironments.
seeral major Australian coal mining organisaons giing us an entry into the By consolidang our core h defence energy and resources market and hae acies with a number of new and deliered crisis training for a major h eisng contracts, such as the Distributed transport hub.
ynthec Air and Training system at RAF Waddington, into a single team, we hae Our training team specialises in combining brought together a strength of capability People who know how with the latest second to none.
training innoaon, technology and processes to delier training systems that Our teams in the military arena are others cannot.
As a plaorm independent, collaborang globally, and a joint h and technology integrator, customers can North American team won a place on trust us to work with them in an inmate the h Training ystems Contract III, that partnership, in which our sole focus is to oer three years, gies access to a group deelop transformaonal training for their of mulple award indefinite deliery specic needs.
This is an opportunity to demonstrate our unique Commercial o-the-shelf to capability 03 02 01 01 B roadening our internaonal capability 02 YineY, working in close partnership with the 03 We oer a full hosng and protece reach, we manage and operate the Flight European pace Agency E A and industrial monitoring serice for those sensie Physiological Centre FPC in inkping, weden partners, achieed the worlds first successful informaon and communicaon systems on behalf of The wedish Defence Materiel recepon of the encrypted Galileo Public where security and aailability are crical.
A self-contained centre Regulated erice PR signal from the first long record of hosng and operang serices that proides world-class training, research, test Galileo satellites, launched in October 2011. is built on our network of resilient sites in and ealuaon facilies, comprises a human geographically disparate locaons.
We are W e supplied the crypto security soluon for the centrifuge with a free-ight-capable ace completely independent of industry suppliers, PR receier, as well as epert security adice gondola used for high-G training, a hypobaric and deploy the most appropriate technologies and Galileo accreditaon technical support to chamber for low-pressure tesng and hypoia for the requirement.
the Eh and E A. training, a hyperbaric chamber for highpressure tesng, and a rescue and test pool for parachute drill and surial equipment training.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 & ' oware Engineer, Training and imulaon erices YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
