h Zs COMMITTED TO THE MISSION t W E : Eecue Vice President, Aerospace Operaons and ystems YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 & When NA A required a partner to help it The complement of eceponally transform Floridas ennedy pace Center qualied personnel that YineY brings for the net generaon of space trael and to the contract, coers eery discipline, eploraon, it chose YineY.
from technical management to financial management.
This core technical team Our Engineering erices Contract E C sere as the principal eperts in technology for the Center encompasses the full range R&D and technology transfer.
They are of life-cycle design, deelopment, tesng complemented by a team hired to support and integraon to support all NA As future the work drien by the task orders.
As the programmes, as well as the commercial contract progresses, it will connue to space sector which, it is ancipated, will epand in scope and stang.
assume responsibility for resupplying the Internaonal pace taon.
The E Cs scale, compleity and emphasis on transformaonal technologies, make Elements of the contract include it an outstanding eample of a showcase a 21st-century ground system, space for YineY as an engineering serices launch system, crawler transporter, and proider that is able to delier costmobile launch tower to accommodate eecely against a backdrop of eoling dierent conguraons of boosters and requirements.
We are now focused on crew ehicles.
translang this capability to other markets We were chosen by NA A against in the h, principally the hnited tates s compeon for our engineering Air Force, commercial space proiders discipline, rigour and eece programme and energy proiders.
We already had an ecellent record of deliering on commitments at other NA A space and research centres.
01 02 03 01 h erices hnmanned Aircra ystems- 02 YineY has worked closely with the h Army to 03 Cyeillance brings adanced cyber businessIniae Program hAI proides hA deelop a maintenance and logiscs enterprise intelligence soluons to customers: it protects Commanders with near-real me, highly system, enhanced by an eceponal soware networks, systems and users by safeguarding accurate readiness reporng.
It is currently program and comple database, for total against phishing, social media threats, in operaon with h Army hadow, Hunter unit maintenance and logiscs management.
reputaon damage and informaon loss.
and ERMP ky Warrior units.
hAI is capable This capability, known as hnit eel ogiscs Cyeillance oers proace soluons that can of supporng all aspects of maintenance and ystem-Aiaon Enhanced, or hA E, is help customers detect and stop threats before readiness, including managing and tracking the first customer serer enterprise system to damage is done.
other crical assets to hA operaons, such as use Relaonal Database ystem technology for all wheeled stock and support equipment.
hA E is widely deployed in the hnited tates Army to support the logiscs and readiness needs of 4,000 aircra.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
