In partnership with communities Economic For Randgold, communities count.
Without development in thriving and supportive local communities we numbers simply would not be able to achieve our business goals.
US$33.6 million in community investment in 2012, That is why we have a policy of active and transparent engagement with all communities up 63% on 2011 that neighbour our sites and a desire to build relationships based on trust and partnership.
Building strong community relations is both a matter of corporate responsibility and 94% of grievances business sense.
Local communities provide us with a talented workforce, their support resolved through our is fundamental to our social licence to operate and they make a major contribution to the grievance mechanism security of our mines.
It is an essential part of delivering high quality mining projects in Africa.
29 669 medical consultations held for In this section we report on our approach to community relations followed by the related community members, topics of grievances, human rights, community health, artisanal mining and resettlement.
up 11% on 2011 2 054 community Community relations residents, employees Our policies and their families At the heart of our community relations policy is a commitment to sharing the benets of accessed voluntary our operations with, and being fully accountable to, the local communities directly affected counselling and by our mines dened as those within a 10 kilometre radius of our mine site.
testing services for HIV AIDS, up from Communication is central to our policy and we discuss and consult our activities over the 1 250 in 2011 full life cycle of each mine.
At the exploration phase, communities are involved through a PPP and by assisting us with local recruitment.
Once a mine becomes operational US$51 million 100% we form a community development committee CDC consisting of local leaders and attributable value representatives from women and youth groups to maintain a two-way ow of information.
spent on resettlement in 2012 The CDCs are also responsible for the distribution of the community investment budget, which provides significant direct investment for local projects.
The budget is steered towards long term, sustainable development but is led by the communities themselves.
2012 CDC budgets US$000 Our performance 320 The budgets allocated to CDCs have more than tripled since 2010 and rose by approximately 87% in 2012 to more than US$830 000 see table below.
Our total spend 280 on community development, including advantageous infrastructural development and 240 philanthropy, came to a total of US$33.6 million.
This compares with US$20.6 million last year.
