Extract from human rights policy Q The company applies the following principles with integrity together the Principles : Q Subject to the considerations of health and safety and within the constraints posed by the nature of the business, promote equal opportunity for our employees at all levels of the company with respect to colour, race, gender, age, ethnicity and religious beliefs: Q Respect our employees voluntary freedom of association: Q Compensate our employees above the national minimum wage level, at the very minimum, to enable them to meet at the very least their basic needs: Q Provide opportunities to our employees to advance their skills and capacity: Q No engagement in child or forced labour: Q Provide a safe and healthy workplace: Q Protect the environment and promote sustainable development: Q Promote fair competition, including respect for intellectual and other property rights: Q Not offer, pay or accept bribes: Q Work with government and the communities affected by our operations to improve the quality of life in those communities ie educational, cultural, environmental and social well-being : Q We acknowledge and respect the social, economic, environmental and cultural interests of Indigenous Peoples and their specic rights within these interests as articulated and dened by national and international laws: Q When engaging private security forces or in requesting assistance from governmental or other forces, ensure that human rights principles are upheld through addressing contractual requirements, establishing guidelines on the use of force, and promoting the protection of human rights: Q When engaging suppliers and business partners, promote the application of these Principles by those with whom we do business and avoid being complicit in or encouraging any activities that may result in human rights abuses: Q While respecting the national sovereignty of host governments, promote human rights by contributing to public debate, supporting international agreements and commitments, and identifying opportunities to constructively engage on human rights issues relevant to the countries in which we operate: Q Develop a grievance mechanism whereby human rights complaints can be reported and addressed without any prejudices to the aggrieved person s : and Q Develop and implement company policies, procedures, training and internal reporting structures to ensure commitment to these Principles throughout our company.
Community health Our policies Ensuring the long term sustainability of community health services We work in isolated parts of Africa where public health issues is of huge importance to Randgolds approach.
Therefore we also and a lack of access to basic healthcare can be widespread.
work with partners in governments, NGOs and or international Our policy is to provide free basic medical services to local agencies to build local capacity, such as government-run health community residents dened as those residing within a 10 clinics, which can provide medical services when the mine closes.
kilometre radius of our mine site, and to immediate family members of our employees.
This provision makes an important Malaria and HIV AIDS are the two diseases that pose the most contribution to worker morale and to maintaining the support of serious threats to both our local communities and our companys local communities.
We therefore have two stand-alone programmes to ght these diseases that are applied to local communities at all At all our mine sites, we establish and manage a clinic in the our mine sites.
The target for our HIV AIDs programme is to have surrounding community.
We also give employee dependents no new infections among our employees and communities, and access to the on-site clinics at each mine site.
The specic our programme to achieve this includes the distribution of free medical services provided at the community health and on-site condoms, local awareness campaigns and provision of free and clinics are based on the needs identied by the initial social condential voluntary counselling and testing.
impact assessments that Randgold performs at each site, but generally include medical consultations, first aid, family Details of our malaria programme can be found in the occupational planning, HIV counselling and voluntary testing and a wide immunisation programme.
health section of this report.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 93 | helped provide initial support for equipment and construction, but Medical consultations in 2012 ongoing funding will come from government.
14% We continued to work with medical charity CURE and the United Nations to facilitate the delivery of containers of medical equipment into Cte dIvoire, and in Mali we worked with local NGO CSP to train community peer educators as part of our HIV AIDS campaign.
19% We also joined forces with other mining companies to sustain the medical programme ghting neglected tropical diseases in Mali.
Preventing HIV AIDS 67% We spent US$187 846 on our HIV AIDS programme and distributed approximately 250 000 condoms to local community residents in 2012.
89 811 A total of 2 054 voluntary counselling and testings VCTs were medical consultations carried out in 2012, an increase of over 60% on 2011.
The increase is encouraging but the number of HIV voluntary tests still Employees remains relatively low because of the social stigma attached to the Dependents disease and the fear of testing positive.
In 2013, however, we aim to encourage more people to undertake testing.
Local community As part of our efforts to raise awareness of HIV AIDS prevention techniques, we have used closed and open talking forums in Our performance local villages, mobile video units and radio broadcasting.
We also A total of 29 669 medical consultations were provided to local worked with partners to train peer educators, who can reach out community residents and family members of employees at all our to important constituents in the community such as sex workers clinics in 2012, an 11% increase on 2011.
These consultations were and young men.
in addition to more than 60 000 consultations for employees, many of whom are also local community members see graph above.
Our programme to ght malaria has been an important part of Important work to build local capacity for healthcare is underway our community health performance this year.
We discuss this at both Kibali and Loulo where government-run health clinics are further as part of our discussion in the occupational health being built in surrounding villages.
For both clinics, Randgold has section of this report.
