Environmental management Our policies Our performance Accidents and incidents Our approach to environmental management is guided by One of our key performance indicators is the number of national regulation in each of our host countries and by the environmental incidents at each site.
As shown in the table IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social on page 106 we record three types of environmental incidents Sustainability.
and for the third year running we were able to report zero Class 1 major incidents.
Initial environmental risks at each operation are identied in a baseline environmental impact assessment and this list of There were 10 Class 2 medium incidents recorded at those issues and controls is augmented over time as we identify new mines operational in this period.
Class 2 incidents that risks that require management, or as existing risks change occurred and were acted on included fuel spillages, burst or require different management interventions.
Identication pipes and unnecessary bush clearing.
and management of risk is also an integral component of the ISO 14001 management system, which is one of the reasons Minor Class 3 incidents reduced in number at the operational we have chosen to implement the standard.
sites but with the inclusion of Kibali, remained constant for the group.
It should be noted that we regard Class 3 In addition to risk management, each site has an EMS to control incidents as an early warning reporting mechanism which, day to day aspects of environmental management.
All our currently when attended to, can prevent more serious incidents from operational mines, Loulo, Gounkoto, Tongon and Morila are now happening.
Therefore an increase in this number can be a certied to the internationally recognised ISO 14001 environmental positive trend.
We have a strict policy to manage our handling of cyanide and use the internationally recognised Cyanide Randgold had no major fines for non-compliance during the Code as a management standard in this area.
Randgold is working hard to reduce power costs while achieving its five year target of a 47% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2015.
