Creating long term value for all stakeholders Randgolds ability to operate successfully is acutely dependent on our ability to deliver long term value to all our stakeholders, in particular our host countries and communities.
This encompasses a wide range of contributions: the revenues we generate for Contents governments, the employment and training opportunities we provide, the local companies we nurture in emerging Africa and the power stations, water systems and 74 Creating long term value for all other infrastructure we help develop.
Over the last ten years we have contributed stakeholders more than US$1.2 billion in taxes, royalties and dividends to the governments of Mali, Achieved in 2012 Cte dIvoire and the Democratic Republic of Congo and created over 15 000 jobs.
Targeted for 2013 Perhaps most signicantly over 92% of those jobs have gone to citizens of the host Sustainability performance summary nations themselves.
for 2012 About our gold mines: cradle to Our operations have helped bring roads, health clinics and schools to remote parts of grave sustainability Africa and we want to ensure a positive legacy from the mineral wealth that we mine.
Our gover finance of sustainability However, we also recognise that the day to day impacts of our mining need careful risks management.
We must operate to the highest standards of safety, respect local sensitivities, remediate the effects to the landscape, strive to be energy-efficient and use Stakeholder engagement precious resources such as water wisely and fairly.
I am pleased to say that in 2012 we 84 In partnership with host countries have succeeded in reducing our lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR by over 50% and, Economic footprint despite some very real challenges, continue to move towards our long term targets to Infrastructure for growth recycle 85% of our water and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 47%.
Supply and expand This year we have also taken a meaningful step forward in our strategic corporate Foundations for the future management of sustainability, putting in place the people and systems that will enable Next step us to effectively manage these issues over the longer term.
We have appointed a group 89 In partnership with communities manager for sustainability, health and safety and are rolling out new policies to protect Community relations human rights and biodiversity across our operations.
Grievance mechanism Our developing management approach and results are evidence of our strong Human rights sustainability performance.
They can be documented and veried.
However, the Community health achievement of which I am most proud, though it is harder to measure, is fundamental Artisanal and small scale mining to our success.
It is that, in a challenging political and economic climate, we have maintained the trust of the communities that host our mines.
That is, at its core, Resettlement attributable to our long term commitment to local economic empowerment by providing Next step jobs, skills training and business opportunities to local communities in some of the most 98 In partnership with our workforce underdeveloped parts of Africa.
It is this approach that has helped Randgold build a Safety business model that delivers in emerging Africa: one that is able to ride out localised conicts and rise to the challenges that the region presents.
Occupational health Securing and developing skills This sustainability report is part of that process.
Accountability to our stakeholders Industrial relations requires that we document both our successes and those areas where our performance Gender diversity has not been of the standard we expect of ourselves.
So we also report on issues where there are lessons to be learnt.
Our approach, with its emphasis on creating and Next step sharing value with the people and communities around our mines, is both the right thing 106 The environment to do and central to our business strategy.
We are confident that it will maximise the Environmental management contribution that we make to the development of the countries where we operate and, in Ene rgy and greenhouse gas turn, ensure our companys long term success.
emissions Water management Land management and biodiversity Air quality Mark Bristow Next step Chief executive 74 Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources |
