Human rights puts a legal duty on them to ensure there is no child or forced labour within the supply chain.
The first point of contact is the grievance process and in the DRC, which remains a conict zone, we have now begun to record human rights as a separate category within the mechanism.
We also work in partnership with the state, NGOs and international bodies to ensure human rights issues are understood and managed in our host communities.
It is Randgolds policy not to arm any security forces on our mines.
Instead, we have legally binding contracts with the relevant local authorities that take into account the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and aim to ensure safety and security for any military or policing matters.
We also monitor any security incidents on our mine sites.
Our performance Last year, one of the key items of feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders was the need for our company to adopt a more formal and transparent management system for human rights issues, especially as the company grows.
We took this feedback on board and in 2012 introduced a new group-wide human rights policy, which taken together with our code of ethics, has further entrenched our adherence to international principles of good governance.
The policy also protects the rights of indigenous people.
An extract from this policy can be found on the facing page.
Our new human rights policy supports the principles contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the International Labour Organisations ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work often referred to as the ILO Core Convention and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
It has helped ensure that we have a clear record regarding human rights abuses during this reporting period.
In 2012, we successfully introduced human rights issues into the induction training for all new staff, relevant to about 3 700 people.
All Our policies our security staff on all our sites completed training on the Randgold pro-actively supports the protection of human rights Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, mostly in conducting its business and a focus of our human resources conducted by United Nations agencies.
strategy in 2012 has been the development and implementation of a group-wide human rights policy.
In the remote areas where There has been only one significant incident resulting in injury we work, we strive to foster awareness of human rights issues to security personnel in 2012.
This was an accidental gunshot among our employees and to actively safeguard the protection injury, caused by an armed state policeman, at Kibali and the of human rights among our contractors and sub-contractors.
matter has been addressed with action taken to prevent a similar incident being repeated.
Starting last year, human rights issues have been included in induction training for all new staff.
Moreover, we include a Following the formalisation of our corporate human rights policy, human rights clause in all our agreements with suppliers that we are now developing effective targets and programmes to binds them to comply with Randgolds human rights policy and ensure the policy is implemented at all mine sites.
