Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is an integral part of our risk and local, NGOs and the media.
They are all important management process.
Our stakeholders include the investment constituencies for Randgold.
The table below summarises community, employees, locally-affected communities, suppliers the way we engaged with them last year, the main issues they and contractors, unions, government national, regional raised with us, and how we have responded to their feedback.
Ways we engaged Key sustainability issues raised in 2011 Stakeholder Q Formal meetings Improved reporting of environmental and social risks, in particular health, safety and community relations Q Investor roadshows and open forums Improved company approach to human rights Q Site visits Improvements to labour conditions and safety standards.
Shareholders Q Sustainability questionnaire More details of Randgolds approach to training and education Improved company policy on corruption and corruption monitoring Q Mass meetings with CEO Concerns similar to unions see below.
Q Site visits Employees Q Input via unions Q Training programmes Q Via community development committees Employment of youth Q Via grievance mechanisms Locally Q Consultations, Public Participation More details of Randgolds approach to training and education Process PPPs and local events affected Q Local media Improved reporting on energy and water management communities Q Training programmes Q Sustainability questionnaire Q Specialist partnerships Improved reporting of environmental management including Q Formal meetings, correspondence and biodiversity events Encourage good corporate governance and transparency Q Sustainability questionnaire NGOs Concerns over access to grievance mechanisms Employment of local people Q Formal meetings and correspondence No sustainability specic concerns have been raised by the host Q Governments Interactions at conference and speaking governments.
engagements Q Monthly and mass meetings Increased reporting on economic performance, occupational Q Mine board meetings health and safety, labour, environmental management, Q Formal meetings, correspondence and community relations and product responsibility events Unions Concerns about levels of revenue remaining in host countries, Q Sustainability questionnaire numbers of local workers employed and of contracting of foreign companies Inquiries regarding levels of community investment Concerns about treatment of artisanal mining community Q Account management relationships Details of business opportunities Q Tender documents Suppliers and Q Sustainability questionnaire Enquired about Randgolds approach to training and education contractors Enquired about Randgolds occupational health and safety record Q Publications and online information Details of discussions with governments on issues of resource Q Press releases nationalism Media Q Interviews Q Site visits Details of occupational health and safety record 82 Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources | CEO Mark Bristow greets traditional leaders at a community event.
How we responded in 2012 This sustainability supplement and our report to the GRI contain detailed accounts of how we analyse and deal with all sustainability risks.
Data on health, safety and community relations are a key part of both reports.
New corporate policy on human rights was introduced in 2012 and is being implemented across the group.
Human rights clauses have been included in all contracts with suppliers.
Safety performance improved in 2012, including a reduction in the LTIFR.
We consider our labour conditions to be of a high standard throughout our operations and supply chain.
This supplement provides details of our approach to training and education.
A board-led training needs analysis is also underway.
We have a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and have worked with our host nations to help them join the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
Employment, including contractors, rose by 42% in 2012.
In total, 92% of all employees and contractors are nationals of host countries.
This report provides details of our approach to training and education and a board-led training needs analysis is also underway.
We have a transparent approach to energy and water management.
We completed our third CDP report in 2012 and will complete the water CDP in 2013, in addition to information in this supplement.
Last year we partnered with the National Water Laboratory in Bamako to improve communications on water quality with the community at Morila.
Introduced a corporate biodiversity policy and in the process of implementing BAPs at all sites.
Included clauses in contracts with all local suppliers to ensure they meet high standards of sustainability and governance.
Worked with USAID to encourage good corporate governance and with our host nations to help them join the EITI.
We have an accessible grievance mechanism at all sites.
To improve access further we have increased the number of access points, some of which are open daily.
92% of employees are nationals from host countries.
This sustainability report and our annual report contain detailed accounts of all sustainability information.
As detailed in this report, Randgold distributed over US$794 million or 59% of economic value in 2012 including salaries, payments to host states and payments to suppliers.
We maintained high levels of local procurement and employment.
Levels of direct community investment and budgets allocated to community development committees are detailed in this report.
Our policy and performance regarding artisanal mining is detailed in this report.
Randgold has an open and accessible tendering system and a procurement policy that prioritises, and facilitates training for, locally-based companies where possible.
This report provides details of our approach to training and education.
Health and safety statistics are detailed in this report.
Randgold has regular meetings with host country governments at all levels to discuss our desire for stable, predictable and transparent tax systems.
Our CEO also speaks at events such as the Mining Indaba in Cape Town, South Africa and the Infrastructure Partnerships for African Development IPAD in Kinshasa, DRC.
