DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 56 57 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Directors Directors Remuneration report report continued No other Directors have been granted share options in shares of the Company.
The mid-market price of Redrow plc shares at 30 June 2012 was The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members their report As explained in the Financial review on pages 24 to 27, the Group 120.9p and the range during the year was 103.5p to 135.3p.
and the audited financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 June maintains adequate committed banking facilities which comprise an 2012. unsecured 200m revolving credit facility due to mature in December Gains made by Directors on share options 2014.
As stated in note 14 to the financial statements, at 30 June 2012, Principal Activities and Business Review John Tutte exercised SAYE share options during the year and retained the shares.
The notional gain is outlined in the table below and is calculated as the Group had 170m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities The principal activity of the Group is residential development which at the exercise date.
Redrow plc is a public listed company, Mid price listed on the London Stock Exchange and domiciled in the UK.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups financial forecasts for the Share No.
of on date of Notional gain period to 31 December 2013 and associated financial covenants and option shares Date of exercise on exercise Revenue and profit on ordinary activities before taxation from have considered various downside sensitivities reflecting the potential Executive Director scheme exercised exercise pence 000 continuing operations are stated at 478.9m and 43.0m respectively.
impact of a further reasonably foreseeable deterioration in economic John Tutte SAYE 2008 9,025 10 01 12 116.4 1 conditions.
This review confirmed headroom within both financial In the current environment, the Board considers that shareholders are covenants and facilities, subject to the business undertaking identified best served by retaining cash within the business and therefore does not mitigating actions which lie within the Groups control.
The principal propose making a final dividend payment.
sensitivity relates to the impact of market conditions on profitability Directors contingent interests in share options and in turn on the Groups net asset position relative to the covenanted The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can No Director has a contingent interest in share options as at 30 June 2012 or 30 June 2011. level.
be found in the Chairmans statement and the Operating review and Financial review on pages 8 to 29.
This includes a review of the key risks Directors interests in shares This section does not constitute an auditable part of the Remuneration report After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider they have a facing the business and a review of the key performance indicators of reasonable expectation for stating that the Group and the Company the business and future developments.
Details of the financial risk The Directors interests in the original shares of the Company were: have adequate resources to continue trading for the foreseeable future.
management objectives and policies and associated risk exposure is Beneficial: 18 September 30 June 30 June given in note 14: Financial Risk Management.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 2012 2012 2011 No.
Potential Offer Executive Directors On 31 August 2012, Bridgemere Securities Limited, Toscafund Asset 1 Steve Morgan 149,486,045 149,486,045 92,436,874 Management LLP and Penta Capital LLP announced that they had made John Tutte 158,334 158,334 128,657 Significant Interests an initial approach to the independent Directors and were considering Barbara Richmond 89,819 89,819 70,512 the possibility of making an offer for Redrow.
It was noted in the announcement that the approach was at a preliminary stage and that As at 18 September 2012, the Company has been advised of the Non-Executive Directors there could be no certainty that an offer will ultimately be made for following notifiable interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Alan Jackson 22,177 22,177 19,285 Redrow.
Redrow also released an announcement on 31 August 2012 Debbie Hewitt 21,605 21,605 18,787 confirming the initial approach and noting that the Company would Paul Hampden Smith 52,900 52,900 46,000 No.
of % of issued establish a committee of independent Directors to consider the Name shares held share capital approach.
These announcements were sent to shareholders on 1 Includes shares held by Bridgemere 3 September 2012 and are available on the Companys website.
Bridgemere 149,486,045 40.42% The committee of Independent Directors has now been established incl.
Steve Morgan and further announcements will be made in due course.
Toscafund 51,016,111 13.80% By order of the Board FIL Limited 15,450,460 4.18% Going Concern BlackRock Inc 15,277,577 4.13% The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern and Debbie Hewitt Norges Bank 15,077,934 4.08% financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Legal & General October 2009.
18 September 2012 Investment Management 12,146,138 3.28% The current economic conditions and uncertainty in the housing market create uncertainties for the business, and a description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and the arrangements to manage these risks are set out on pages 28 to 29.
The Groups business activities, The persons set out in the table above have notified the Company together with the factors likely to affect its future performance, are set pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their out in the Business review section on pages 8 to 37.
The Groups interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
management of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, interest rate risk and credit risk, is disclosed in note 14 to the financial At 18 September 2012, no change in these holdings had been notified statements together with details of the Groups banking facilities and nor, according to the registrar of members, did any other shareholder at capital management policies and processes.
that date have a notifiable holding of issued share capital.
DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 58 59 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Directors The Directors recognise the importance of good communications with Capital Structure The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of signing employees.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to make their The Company has an authorised share capital of 480,000,000 ordinary are listed on page 54 of the Directors Remuneration report and are also employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting their shares of 10p each of which 369,799,938 have been issued.
The listed together with their biographical details on pages 38 and 39. respective companies and the Group.
This is assisted through the Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry ordinary rights to medium of regular management meetings, staff publications and the dividends subject to the Companys Articles of Association.
Each share Formal appraisals of Executive Directors were undertaken during the Redrow intranet.
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
All the Non-Executive Directors underwent an annual Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related appraisal conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share schemes.
The Board confirms that Steve Morgan, John Tutte and Barbara capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Richmond, who stand for re-appointment as Executive Directors, and Creditor Payment Policy Alan Jackson, Debbie Hewitt and Paul Hampden Smith who stand for reAuthority was given to the Directors at last years AGM to allot unissued The Group values its relationships with suppliers and subcontractors.
It is appointment as a Non-Executive Directors, continue to be effective and shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,286,915 equivalent to the policy to agree credit terms prior to commencement of trading.
demonstrate the appropriate commitment to their roles.
approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital and up to a Subject to any items of genuine dispute, it is policy to pay creditors The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Termination of further aggregate nominal amount of 10,285,915 in connection with within the terms agreed.
At June 2012, the Group had 48 days their employment may be effected by 12 months notice given by the an offer by way of a rights issue.
As this authority expires at the 2011: 39 days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to Company except for Steve Morgan where the notice period is six forthcoming AGM the Directors will be seeking new authorities as set suppliers and the Company had nil days purchases outstanding in months.
out in the Notice of Meeting and as referred to below.
respect of payments to suppliers 2011: nil.
The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service agreements Voting and Transfer of Shares Research and Development outlining their duties and responsibilities.
The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any specific The Group has a centralised Product Development Team charged with restrictions on the size of a shareholders holding or on the transfer of identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and products.
Details of Directors service agreements are given in the Directors shares.
Environmental and sustainability issues play a prominent role in its Remuneration report on page 53. activities.
The charge to the income statement in respect of research and The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders development in the year was 0.3m 2011: 0.3m.
Directors Interests that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting Related party transactions are disclosed in note 22 to the financial rights.
A summary of remuneration provided to key management Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a whole and personnel is provided in note 7c.
The Companys Articles of Association do not contain and the Company has adopted an environmental strategy which is a core part of the is not aware of any restrictions on voting rights including any limitations Groups objectives.
Further details are provided in the Corporate The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are given on voting rights of holders of a given percentage or number of votes, responsibility review on pages 30 to 37 and also on our website at in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 55 to 56.
There has been deadlines for exercising voting rights and arrangements by which, with redrowplc.
no change in the Directors interests between 30 June 2012 and the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are 18 September 2012. held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
Significant Agreements The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of Charitable and Political Donations The voting rights attaching to the shares held by the Companys control of the Company.
There are no contractual or other arrangements The Group made no political donations but paid 625,000 in charitable Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by Abacus Trust Company Isle of essential to the business which require disclosure under the Companies donations during the year being 623,000 in respect of National Man, the trustee of the Trust.
Act 2006. charities and 2,000 in support of local charities.
The Group and its employees are actively involved in fundraising activities for specific Notice of Annual General Meeting Independent Auditors charities.
The Group made a 622,500 donation during the year to the Pages 96 to 99 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and details A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Morgan Foundation, a UK registered charity of which Steve Morgan is a the resolutions proposed together with explanatory notes.
external Auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on trustee.
This is included within the charitable donations in respect of 12 November 2012.
To the extent that the Directors report makes reference to information Provision of information to auditors: contained in other sections of the Annual Report, such information will Employees In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors report is be regarded as forming part of the Directors report.
Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of training and approved, confirm that: development: training@redrow, a purpose built in-house training facility at Tamworth, completed over 2,302 training days during the year ended a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 30 June 2012 including those which support the Group induction By order of the Board information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and process.
Graham Cope Company Secretary b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director The Group supports the employment of disabled persons wherever Redrow plc in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information possible through recruitment and by the retention and retraining of Registered no.
2877315 and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that those who become disabled during their employment.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Financial information Financial information 60 61 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Independent Auditors report to the members of Redrow plc The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors of Redrow plc as at the date of this statement are: We have audited the financial statements of Redrow plc for the year n the parent company financial statements have been properly Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in ended 30 June 2012 which comprise the Consolidated income prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Steve Morgan, Chairman statement, the Consolidated Group and Company statement of Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Alan Jackson, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director comprehensive income, the Group and parent company Balance sheets, Companies Act 2006: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for John Tutte, Group Managing Director the Group and parent company Statement of changes in equity and the n the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Barbara Richmond, Group Finance Director Group and parent company Statement of cash flows, the Accounting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with Debbie Hewitt, Non-Executive Director Policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Paul Hampden Smith, Non-Executive Director has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true In our opinion: and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. n the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these By order of the Board been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements, the Directors are required to: Graham Cope n the information given in the Directors report for the financial year As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set Company Secretary for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with out on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 18 September 2012 the financial statements: and financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Redrow plc n make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the n the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set Redrow House financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International prudent: out on pages 40 to 46 with respect to internal control and risk St. Davids Park Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to management systems and about share capital structures is Flintshire n state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
consistent with the financial statements.
CH5 3RX have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Matters on which we are required to report by exception and explained in the financial statements: and the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part We have nothing to report in respect of the following: n 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in our opinion: purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into business.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent consent in writing.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of n the parent company financial statements and the part of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the accounting records and returns: or the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the n certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent not made: or safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and n we have not received all the information and explanations we taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting require for our audit: or other irregularities.
estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the n a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the parent company.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material legislation in other jurisdictions.
n the Directors statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our concern: report.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed below n the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Opinion on financial statements Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate In our opinion: Governance Code specified for our review: and n the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in n certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on n accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Directors remuneration.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2012 and Group and Company: and of the Groups profit and Groups and parent companys cash flows Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for the year then ended: n the Directors report contained on pages 57 to 59 includes a fair for and on behalf of  LLP n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in review of the development and performance of the business and the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: position of the Group and Company, together with a description of Manchester the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
18 September 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Financial information Financial information 62 63 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Consolidated income statement Balance sheets 12 months ended 30 June As at 30 June The Group The Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Note m m m m Note m m Assets Revenue 478.9 452.7 Intangible assets 8 1.8 1.7 -- Cost of sales 396.1 388.4 Property, plant and equipment 9 12.1 12.9 -- Gross profit 82.8 64.3 Investments 10 9.3 2.6 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax assets 11 51.8 63.8 3.9 2.1 Administrative expenses 34.8 33.1 Retirement benefit surplus 7- 5.0 - 5.0 Operating profit before financing costs 2 48.0 31.2 Trade and other receivables 12 26.0 31.4 -- Total non-current assets 101.0 117.4 4.0 7.2 Financial income 3 2.4 2.7 Financial expenses 3 7.4 8.6 Non-current assets held for sale 9 1.4 1.4 - - Net financing costs 5.0 5.9 Inventories 13 708.2 562.7 -- Trade and other receivables 12 27.2 38.2 419.1 391.8 Share of loss of joint ventures after interest and taxation 10 - - Current income tax receivables 4- - 8.3 6.5 Profit before tax 43.0 25.3 Cash and cash equivalents 14 37.4 32.0 - 7.3 Total current assets 774.2 634.3 427.4 405.6 Income tax expense 4 12.8 11.8 Total assets 875.2 751.7 431.4 412.8 Profit for the period 30.2 13.5 Earnings per share - basic 6 9.7p 4.4p Equity - diluted 6 9.7p 4.4p Share capital 17 37.0 30.9 37.0 30.9 Share premium account 18 58.7 58.7 58.6 58.6 Hedge reserve 18 -- - - Other reserves 18 7.9 7.9 7.0 7.0 Retained earnings 18 457.9 361.1 276.1 216.2 Total equity 561.5 458.6 378.7 312.7 Liabilities Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Bank loans 14 30.0 85.0 30.0 85.0 Trade and other payables 15 40.6 12.4 -- Deferred tax liabilities 11 0.7 1.8 -- Retirement benefit obligations 7 2.6 - 2.6 - Long-term provisions 16 8.2 8.0 -- 12 months ended 30 June The Group The Company Total non-current liabilities 82.1 107.2 32.6 85.0 2012 2011 2012 2011 Note m m m m Bank overdrafts and loans 14 21.4 22.4 3.5 - Profit loss for the period 30.2 13.5 6.0 5.4 Trade and other payables 15 210.2 163.5 16.6 15.1 Total current liabilities 231.6 185.9 20.1 15.1 Other comprehensive income expense Total liabilities 313.7 293.1 52.7 100.1 Effective portion of changes in fair value of interest rate cash flow hedges - 1.1 - 1.1 Total equity and liabilities 875.2 751.7 431.4 412.8 Deferred tax on change in fair value of interest rate cash flow hedges - 0.3 - 0.3 The financial statements on pages 62 to 95 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 September 2012.
Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension scheme 7e 7.9 9.7 7.9 9.7 Directors Deferred tax on actuarial losses gains taken directly to equity 1.9 2.5 1.9 2.5 S P Morgan B M Richmond Other comprehensive expense income for the period net of tax 6.0 8.0 6.0 8.0 Total comprehensive income expense for the period 18 24.2 21.5 12.0 2.6 Redrow plc Registered No.
2877315 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Financial information Financial information 64 65 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Statement of changes in equity The statement of cash flows 12 months ended 30 June The Group The Company 12 months ended 30 June The Group The Company 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Note m m m m Note m m m m Cash flow from operating activities Total comprehensive income expense relating to the period net 24.2 21.5 12.0 2.6 Shares issued 18 78.0 - 78.0 - Operating profit loss before financing costs 48.0 31.2 0.2 0.4 Depreciation and amortisation 1.3 1.3 - - Share-based payment 18 0.3 0.3 - - Movement in LTSIP SAYE 18 0.4 0.9 - - Adjustment for non-cash items 3.1 2.8 0.6 0.6 Operating profit loss before changes in working capital and provisions 46.2 29.7 0.8 0.2 Net increase in equity 102.9 22.7 66.0 2.6 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 6.3 10.2 27.3 11.9 Opening equity 458.6 435.9 312.7 310.1 Closing equity 561.5 458.6 378.7 312.7 Increase in inventories 145.5 71.1 - - Increase in trade and other payables 75.2 25.1 1.4 0.2 As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of Redrow plc is not presented as a part of these financial Increase decrease in provisions 0.2 0.4 - - Cash outflow generated from operations 17.6 26.9 26.7 11.5 statements.
Interest paid 3.6 4.9 7.1 6.1 The consolidated profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation for the financial year, excluding intra-Group dividends, is made up as follows: Tax received - 0.5 - - Net cash from operating activities 21.2 31.3 33.8 17.6 2012 2011 m m Cash flows from investing activities Holding company 6.0 5.4 Sale of business 12.3 5.0 - - Subsidiary companies 36.2 18.9 Sale of subsidiary to other Group company - - - - 30.2 13.5 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 - - Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment - 0.6 - - Interest received - 1.0 - - Payments to joint ventures - continuing operations 6.7 0.4 - - Net cash inflow from investing activities 4.9 5.5 - - Cash flows from financing activities Issue of bank borrowings 30.0 85.0 30.0 85.0 Repayment of bank borrowings 85.0 50.0 85.0 50.0 Issue costs of bank borrowings - 2.5 - 2.5 Purchase of own shares 0.3 - - - Proceeds from issue of share capital 78.0 - 78.0 - Net cash inflow from financing activities 22.7 32.5 23.0 32.5 Increase decrease in net cash and cash equivalents 6.4 6.7 10.8 14.9 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 9.6 2.9 7.3 7.6 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 19 16.0 9.6 3.5 7.3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Financial information Financial information 66 67 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Accounting policies Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have been Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial statements of Income and Deferred Tax The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and effective at 30 June 2012, and in accordance with IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act All inter-company transactions and balances between Group companies are Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any appropriate These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 2006 as it applies to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS eliminated on consolidation.
adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Taxable profit differs circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Regulation and in accordance with the historical cost convention as from profit before tax as shown in the income statement as it excludes The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the difference b Interests in Joint Ventures modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
income or expenditure items which are never chargeable or allowable for between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other tax or which are chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
recognised in the income statement.
parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability method, on Non-current Assets Held for Sale entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of assets and Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying controlled entities.
revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Whilst these estimates liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or bases used in the calculation of taxable profit.
They are stated at managements best estimate The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates refer to of realisable value less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
method of accounting - the Groups share of profit after tax is shown note 1.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that separately on the face of the income statement and its share of net assets is taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Investment in Subsidiary Companies included within non-current assets in the balance sheet as an investment.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is held at temporary differences.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates enacted at the cost less any impairment.
When the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in the balance sheet date.
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the periods presented and are outlined below: Leases joint venture, except where unrealised losses provide evidence of Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, statement of Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are impairment of the asset transferred.
Where joint venture arrangements are Basis of Consolidation consolidated statement of comprehensive income, or retained earnings as retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable undertaken directly, the Groups share of jointly controlled assets and The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements appropriate.
under operating leases are charged to work in progress or income on a liabilities are recognised in the relevant subsidiary company and classified of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases classified as according to their nature.
results and share of net assets of jointly controlled entities i. e. the financial Intangible Assets Computer Software finance leases are those where substantially all of the risks and rewards of statements of Redrow plc and entities controlled by Redrow plc and its Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs ownership pass to the lessee.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is Revenue and Profit Recognition subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where Redrow plc has the power to govern incurred to bring to use the specific software and are amortised over their included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in respect of the the financial and operating policies of an entity.
Redrow plcs accounting estimated useful lives of three years.
These are reviewed for impairment sale of residential housing and land and of commercial land and reference date is 30 June.
Consistent with the normal monthly reporting whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Inventories developments net of value added tax and discounts.
This is recognised on process, the actual date to which the balance sheet has been drawn up is to values may not be recoverable.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value less cash legal completion.
For ease of reference all references to the on account.
year or 12 months and financial position are for the year ended 30 June and Property, Plant and Equipment Profit is recognised on legal completion.
Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct materials and administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at cost less the subcontract work, other direct costs and those overheads based on normal Segmental Reporting The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under Section subsequent depreciation of buildings.
operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present Redrow plc's Company their present location and condition, excluding borrowing costs.
As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group has only one Income Statement.
The profit loss for the financial year is dealt with in All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less business and geographic segment.
This is consistent with the information the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Historic cost includes any costs directly attributable to The Group differentiates its inventories into two categories: provided for internal reporting purposes to the Chief Operating decision bringing the assets to the location and condition necessary for them to be maker the Board.
The Group has no key customers.
a Subsidiaries capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
a Type 1: land where generally the construction of homes had The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are commenced at the year end and which was generally short to medium Exceptional Items included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets, is charged so as to term in its development horizon.
This category also includes Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Board, are material acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Identifiable assets write off the cost of assets to their residual values over their estimated undeveloped land on which housebuild had not commenced at 30 June by size or nature, non-recurring and of such significance that they require acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: 2012 but which the Group believes it is more likely to develop than to separate disclosure.
combination are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of Buildings 50 years Net Financing Costs b Type 2: land where housebuild had not commenced and land could be the identifiable net assets represents goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to an Plant & machinery 5 10 years Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by reference to identified as a distinct parcel.
This land is more generally medium to annual impairment review, with any reduction in value being taken straight Fixtures & fittings 3 5 years the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Interest costs are long term in time horizon and the Group believes it is more likely to be to the income statement.
recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis in the period in sold undeveloped.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Financial information Financial information 68 69 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Accounting policies continued Net realisable value for land where construction of homes had commenced Under IAS 19, revised December 2004, the Group has taken the option to The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an interest rate risk Dividend Distribution at the year end Type 1 was assessed by estimating selling prices and cost allow actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and management framework adopted by the Board which sets parameters to Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a including sales and marketing expenses, taking into account current changes in actuarial assumptions to be charged or credited to equity as they ensure an appropriate level of hedging is maintained to manage interest rate liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the market conditions.
arise in full via the statement of comprehensive income.
risk in respect of borrowings.
dividends are declared and paid.
The net realisable value of land where housebuild had not commenced Scheme service costs are charged to cost of sales and administrative The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial instruments or their Impact Of New Standards And Interpretation Type 2 and is more likely to be sold undeveloped was assessed by expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs are included in net use for speculative purposes.
a New Standards re-appraising the land using current selling prices and costs for the proposed financing costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent Revised IAS 24, Related party disclosures issued in November 2009 and development and assuming an appropriate financial return to reflect the that the benefits are already vested, or otherwise amortised on a straight The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial superseding IAS 24, Related party disclosures, issued in 2003.
The revised current housing market conditions and the prevailing financing line basis over the vesting period, if they are conditional on the employees instruments which are designated and which qualify as cash flow hedges are IAS24 is required to be applied from 1 January 2011. environment.
This net realisable value represents valuing the land at the remaining in service for a further period.
recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
The gains or losses relating amount the Group estimates it could be sold for at the balance sheet date to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement b New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
In respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme and the GPP, immediately they arise.
time for the financial year beginning 1 July 2011 but not currently contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are relevant to the group This net realisable value provision will be closely monitored for adequacy due.
The Group has no further payment obligations in respect of the above c Loans and receivables and appropriateness as regards under and over provision to reflect Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Amendments to IFRC once the contributions have been paid.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or circumstances at future balance sheet dates.
This will include consideration 14, issued in November 2009.
The amendments correct an unintended determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are of the continued appropriateness of the allocation of sites between Type 1 consequence of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, b Bonus plans included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months and Type 2.
Any material change to the underlying provision will be reflected minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
through cost of sales as an exceptional item.
amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some contractually obliged.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables and other receivables and voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
This was not cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Forward Land intended when IFRIC 14 was issued, and the amendments correct the c Share-based payments Expenditure relating to forward land excluding owned sites without residential problem.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less any impairment.
planning consent but including options, fees etc is provided for when incurred.
The amendments should be applied retrospectively to the In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all The amount is then increased to settlement value over the settlement After exercise of an option and acquisition of land following the securing of earliest comparative period presented.
grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002, which had not vested period via financing income.
planning permission, the provisions relating to that land are released.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair Expenditure incurred on owned sites without residential planning consent is IFRIC 19, 'Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments'.
This value on the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the d Cash and Cash equivalents included in inventories and is subject to a regular impairment review.
interpretation clarifies the accounting when an entity renegotiates the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished through the vest.
Employee Benefits overdrafts that are repayable on demand, forming an integral part of the debtor issuing its own equity instruments to the creditor.
Not relevant for a Pension obligation Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash the Group.
d Termination benefits The Group operates two pension schemes for its staff.
The Redrow Staff equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Pension Scheme the Scheme closed to the accrual of new benefits with c New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective Group before normal retirement date by redundancy.
These benefits are effect from 1 March 2012, with new benefits now being provided via the e Borrowings and Trade payables for the financial year beginning 1 July 2011 and not early adopted recognised by the Group in the period in which it becomes demonstrably Redrow Group Personal Pension Plan the GPP.
The Scheme is externally Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded at the proceeds IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits.
This amendment makes committed to terminating the employment of current employees according invested and comprises two sections: a defined benefit section and a received, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently at amortised to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal.
significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit defined contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs and the pension expense and termination benefits, and to the disclosures for all defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of Financial Instruments employee benefits.
The changes will affect most entities that apply IAS 19. retirement.
It is funded through payments to trustee administered funds, the borrowings.
They could significantly change a number of performance indicators and a Land creditors determined by actuarial valuations carried out on at least a triennial basis.
A Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted might also significantly increase the volume of disclosures.
This is effective defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays Onerous Contracts for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group will present value using the effective interest method, in accordance with IAS agreed contributions into a separate fund for each employee and any Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable costs in meeting 39.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal value is amortised adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to subsequent pension payable to a specific employee is determined by the the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected endorsement by the EU.
over the deferment period via financing costs.
amount accumulated in their individual fund.
The GPP is also a type of to be received under it.
Provision is made to reflect managements best defined contribution plan.
current estimate of the least net cost of either fulfilling or exiting the IFRS 9 Financial instruments on classification and measurement of financial The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the date of contract.
The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined the land purchase.
This is the first part of a new standard on classification and benefit section of the scheme is the present value of the defined benefit measurement of financial assets that will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two Share Capital obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of plan assets.
The b Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
defined benefit obligation is determined using the projected unit credit instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is at amortised Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value and the method on an annual basis by an independent scheme actuary.
fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the FINANCIAL INFORMATION Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Financial information Financial information 70 71 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Accounting policies continued Notes to the financial statements cash flows represent principal and interest.
Otherwise it is at fair value Note 1.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future through profit or loss.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management consider the key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical 2013.
The Group have not assessed the full impact of this standard, and will accounting judgements relate to: adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Carrying value of inventories The Group carries inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value less cash on account.
This standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in Due to the nature of development timescales, it is routinely necessary to estimate costs to complete and future revenues and to allocate non-unit whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial specific development costs between units legally completing in the current financial year and in future periods.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in determining control where this is difficult to assess.
This new standard might A full review of the net realisable value of inventories was undertaken by the Group as at 30 June 2012. impact the entities that a group consolidates as its subsidiaries.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group have not assessed In respect of land where the construction of homes had commenced or undeveloped land that the Group believes it is more likely to develop than sell undeveloped Type 1 land, the Group estimated selling prices and costs of its homes under construction.
These estimates were based on a the full impact of this standard, and will adopt this for the first time for the combination of experience to date, local market research and management experience.
year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
In respect of land where housebuild had not commenced, land could be identified as a distinct parcel and the Group believes it is more likely to be IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
This standard provides for a more realistic sold undeveloped Type 2 land, the Group judged it appropriate to assess the net realisable value of the undeveloped land.
It prepared estimates reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of using a land appraisal methodology reflecting land as a residual value and used an appropriate financial return to take into account the current the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
There are two types of joint housing market conditions and the prevailing financing environment.
The estimates reflected managements estimate at the balance sheet date of arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise home selling prices and costs and current estimate of the market required rate of return.
where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for its interest in assets, liabilities, The categorisation of undeveloped land between land the Group believes it is more likely to develop Type 1 land and land the Group believes it is revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where the joint operator has more likely to sell undeveloped Type 2 land is based on the Groups current judgement of its medium term land requirements and prevailing rights to the net assets of the arrangement and hence equity accounts for market conditions.
The Directors regularly consider which element of the Groups land bank they intend to develop and that which they do not.
Land which is not intended for development is generally considered as available to swap or sell.
Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed.
The Group have Pensions not assessed the full impact of this standard, and will adopt this for the first The Group has utilised assumptions including a rate of return on assets, mortality assumptions and a discount rate having been advised by its time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the retirement benefit obligations of the Group would change.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities.
This standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
Not expected to be relevant to the Group, but is effective 1 January 2013.
This standard will impact the disclosure of fair value measurements and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Group will adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
