Ov Ove er rv viie ew w Busine Busines ss s rev revi iew ew F Fi inancial financial r re ev vi ie ew w Gove Gover rn na an nc ce e F Fi inancial financial s st tat atement ements s and and other other infor inform mation ation ReeR fide E ed ls El evier sev ier An nual Annual Rep R or e tp so and rts and Financial Financial Stat St ement atement s 201 s1 2012 39 39 Corporate Business review responsibility Dest que occusae vel ex explant vendae id etur, quo maximent, consed mo temea commodita similia tiatur simolor The Corporate Responsibility Report is an integral part of our Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
This section highlights key achievements relative to our 2012 corporate responsibility objectives.
You can read the full2012 Corporate Responsibility Report atreporting.
com cr12 IN THIS SECTION 00 Elsevier 00 LexisNexis Risk Solutions 00 LexisNexis Legal & Professional 00 Reed Exhibitions 00 Reed Business Information 00 Corporate responsibility BUSINESS REVIEW 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility 1.
Our unique contributions Corporate responsibility ensures We focus on areas where we can make a positive impact on society good management of risks and through our knowledge, resources and skills.
This includes universal sustainable access to information, advance of science opportunities, helps us attract and health, protection of society, and promotion of the rule of law and justice.
andretain the best people, and Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and strengthens our corporate medical information, plays an important role in advancing human welfare and economic progress through its science and health reputation.
It means performing information, which spurs the diffusion of innovation and enables critical decision making.
To ensure access to this information, tothe highest commercial and Elsevier supports key programmes in places where resources areoften scarce.
Among them is Research4Life, a partnership ethical standards and channelling with United Nations agencies and other publishers.
This partnership provides core and cutting-edge scientific information our knowledge and strengths, as to researchers in more than 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner, we contribute 50% of the content available in global leaders in our industries, Research4Life, encompassing all Science Direct content, including approximately 2,000 Elsevier journals and 7,000 books.
In the year, tomake a difference to society.
there were more than 6m Research4Life article downloads fromScienceDirect, including from the Access to Research for Constant engagement with stakeholders, including shareholders, Development and Innovation ARDI programme, which we joined employees, communities in which we operate and governments in 2012.
In addition to support for ongoing projects, the Elsevier helps us determine material corporate responsibility issues.
The Foundation committed $650,000 to support libraries, new Reed Elsevier Boards, senior management and the Corporate scholars, and nursing, including a grant to the Medical Libraries Responsibility Forum oversee corresponding objectives and Association Librarians Without Borders e-library training monitor performance against them.
initiative in Latin America and Asia, and the Appalachian Women Scientists programme at Appalachian State University in the US.
We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business LexisNexis Risk Solutions tools and resources help protect society.
and on good management of the material areas that affect all LexisNexis Risk Solutions Bridger Insight XG watch list screening companies, encompassing: solution is used by over 3,000 financial institutions globally to help ensure compliance with sanctions regulations.
Our unique contributions the Bridger Insight XG solution with Reed Business Informations 2.
Governance BankersAccuity Global Watch List, a global data set of sanctioned or high risk entities, helps customers ensure proactive 3.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions employees created the 4.
Customers Automated Delivery of Alerts on Missing Children ADAM programme which assists in the safe recovery of missing children.
Community ADAM alerts circulate missing child posters more than 2.1m in 6.
Supply management 2012 to police, news media, schools, businesses, medical centres and other recipients within a specic geographic search area.
Environment Since launching in 2000, 135 children have been located, including nine in2012.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 41 Research4Life gives researchers and practitioners in the developing world free RESEARCH4LIFE: or low cost access to critical scienti c information.
IMPROVING HEALTH Tiny Tim & Friends, a Zambian organisation specialising in paediatric HIV AIDS clinical care, is improving the lives of THROUGH ACCESS HIV-infected children through the use of Elseviers leading-edge research.
As a founding partner, Elsevier provides TO SCIENTIFIC access to its complete collection of journals, articles and books.
RESEARCH Research4Life is a primary example of Reed Elseviers goal to provide universal, sustainable access to information.
THE DEVELOPING WORLD BENEFITS ENORMOUSLY FROM THE ONLINE COLLECTIONS MADE AVAILABLE BY OUR PUBLISHER PARTNERS.
NEW CONTENT HAS MORE THAN DOUBLED RESEARCH4LIFES INFORMATION RESOURCES PREVIOUSLY INACCESSIBLE TO RESEARCHERS AND PRACTITIONERS IN LOW AND MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRIES.
Kimberly Parker HINARI Programme Manager, Research4Life 6,000 institutions RESEARCHERS AT MORE THAN 6,000 INSTITUTIONS IN OVER 100 DEVELOPING WORLD COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES BENEFIT FROM RESEARCH4LIFE Children receive treatment at a Tiny Tim & Friends paediatric HIV AIDS clinic in Zambia BUSINESS REVIEW 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Reed Business Information RBI uses the power of its brands to water contaminants, including viruses, to bring safe drinking aid communities.
ICIS, providing news and market intelligence water to rural villages in Nepal.
Over a period of two years, forthe chemicals, energy and fertiliser sectors, held its ninth 150 lters will be installed.
Second prize of $25,000 went to Sanergy to extend a pilot project in Kenya that ensures accessible Innovation Awards in 2012 to reward innovation in the chemicals and affordable hygienic sanitation through a network of industry.
Frances Rhodia won Best Innovation for Sustainability small-scale, high quality sanitation centres.
Sanergy toilets are for creating an urban mine a process to recover scarce franchised to local entrepreneurs and stimulate the economy metallic elements from consumer waste.
Over the past two years, byturning waste into products, such as organic fertiliser sold Hairdressers Journal has partnered with John Frieda to build tofarms.
In 2012, we expanded our alternative energy portfolio awareness of HAIRraising, a charity which has raised more than toinclude new products such as Elseviers Comprehensive 1m in support of Londons Great Ormond Street Childrens Renewable Energy and Reed Exhibitions Asia Future Energy Hospital, through its publications, sites and shows.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes justice through its products and services.
Its Rule of Law Resource Center is a free 2012 OBJECTIVES Progress online community covering topics like human rights, protecting Increase pro bono partnerships New and expanded minority communities and anti-human trafcking.
In the year, partnerships, for staff in the UK developed the free Human Trafcking Awareness example, Research4Life Index, which uses the Nexis news service to highlight emerging access expanded to all trends within and across national borders to help campaigners in ScienceDirect content: their efforts to combat trafcking.
Among the ways LexisNexis support for global social expanded pro bono partnerships in 2012, was through a new entrepreneurs through collaboration with the Lex Mundi Pro Bono Foundation to promote Lex Mundi Pro Bono law rm engagement with social entrepreneurs working around Foundation the world to improve the lives of the poor and disenfranchised.
Broaden reach of Reed Elsevier 90% increase in Reed Exhibitions trade shows provide platforms for supporting Environmental Challenge registrations: 40% increase our corporate responsibility focus areas.
At the 2012 World Travel in proposals over 2011 Market, its global event for the travel industry, Reed Exhibitions Expand alternative energy New products include hosted World Responsible Tourism Day with events available to product portfolio Comprehensive Renewable the shows more than 40,000 attendees on topics ranging from Energy Elsevier and Asia poverty reduction to wildlife protection and reducing greenhouse Future Energy Forum gas emissions.
Over the last nine years, Reed Exhibitions has and Exhibition Reed given free space at the London Book Fair to Book Aid International, Exhibitions which annually provides more than 500,000 books including Facilitate deeper country Research extended to those donated from across Reed Elsevier to readers in the analysis of UNICEF climate child-oriented disaster risk developing world, enabling the charity to engage with a wide range change and children report assessments in Indonesia of potential book and financial donors.
In 2012, the International and the Philippines: inVision Expo & Conference expanded offerings for optometry kind assistance including students through a new mentor programme, in addition to editorial support and providing free entry, a job fair, and travel grants to students from design the 22 schools of the American Optometric Student Association.
2013 OBJECTIVES Drawing on expertise across Reed Elsevier, in 2012 we awarded prizes in the second Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge to Create cross-business alternative energy roundtable to projects that improve sustainable access to water and sanitation foster knowledge sharing and product development where it is presently at risk.
We offered access to relevant Deliver workshops with UNICEF on child-centred climate products from our businesses to nearly 600 registrants from change adaptation in high risk locations more than 50 countries and saw a 40% increase in proposals over New partnerships through Reed Elsevier Environmental 2011.
The winner of the $50,000 first prize was the Centre for Challenge to share water and sanitation expertise Affordable Water and Sanitation Technology for a project that modies biosand lters with iron particles in order to remove Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 43 Progress 2012 OBJECTIVES 2.
Governance Completion of Reed Elsevier 100% completion achieved The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Code Code of Ethics and Business isdisseminated to every employee, setting the standard for our Conduct training by 100% of corporate and individual conduct.
Encompassing topics such as employees within 90 days of fair competition, anti-bribery, and human rights, it encourages their employment start date open and principled behaviour.
In 2012, we ensured that 100% of Continue bribery law 100% of employees employees completed training on the Code within 90 days of compliance activities, with completed online starting their employment.
We provided refresher courses on particular reference to the UK training, rolled out to new competition laws and data privacy and security to staff that had Bribery Act and US Foreign employees on an ongoing completed courses previously, with 100% completion by year Corrupt Practices Act basis: in-person training end.
All US managers have completed a course on preventing for employees in higher workplace harassment.
risk roles and geographies: We continued to enhance bribery law compliance efforts, intermediary due diligence including compliance with the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign and related monitoring as Corrupt Practices Act, by ensuring 100% of employees had part of routine process completed online anti-bribery training at least once by the close Records Management Policy Policy issued to all of2012, and rolling it out to new employees on an ongoing basis.
roll out to the UK and other employees in EnglishWe supplement online training with in-person sessions on topics countries speaking countries: as required, including training on competition law and preventing guidance to business units bribery for employees in higher risk positions and locations.
Each on implementation efforts of our businesses have designated Preventing Bribery Working Groups, which are engaged in implementing and overseeing 2013 OBJECTIVES compliance activities.
Our policies, training and other materials Achieve 100% completion of all computer-based are developed to help ensure compliance with laws globally.
compliance courses Wealso undertake intermediary due diligence and monitoring Advance Record Management Policy implementation and aspart of routine process.
roll out translations We maintain a Record Management Policy, Record Retention Enhanced training programme for internal investigators Schedule and related resources to help employees properly ofCode of Ethics and Business Conduct breaches manage company records, setting out what, why, how, and for howlong, different types of records must be retained and disposed of.
In the year, we issued the policy to all employees inEnglish-speaking countries.
Reed Elsevier is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact UNGC businesses must align their governance and operations with ten principles related to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
We demonstrated leadership in 2012 by serving on the UNGC Advisory Group for the UK and the UNGC Supply Chain Advisory Group.
We were also part of the CEO Water Mandate Steering Group and represented the initiative on the board of the Alliance for Water Stewardship.
We participated in theUNGCs Corporate Sustainability Forum in Rio fide Janeiro, where a new Water Action Hub was launched, for which we are providing a free news feed with water basin information.
The UNGC judged our 2012 Communication on Progress, required of signatories each year, to have attained Advanced level.
In the year, we provided video content on the UNGC for lawyers and held webinars on the UNGC for our suppliers.
BUSINESS REVIEW 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In the US, where we have our largest concentration of employees, 3.
People we expanded the REACH programme, which promotes workplace Our 30,400 people are our strength.
Our workforce is 53% female wellbeing through health screenings, online assessments, stress and 47% male, with an average length of service of 9 years.
awareness training, and weight loss and smoking cessation programmes, with financial incentives for participation.
We The Reed Elsevier Nominations Committee considers the captured wellbeing metrics including the number of people who knowledge, experience and background of individual Board attended a personal wellness screening which increased to 34% directors.
By year end 2012, women made up 27% of the members ofUS employees.
There was a 40% quit rate among employees of the Reed Elsevier NV Combined Board and 20% of the members who undertook a stop smoking course.
The resulting data is of the Reed Elsevier PLC Board.
Following the Annual General helping us understand the health status of our people to better Meetings to be held in 2013 we expect these percentages to have target wellness programmes.
increased to 30% and 22%, respectively, reaching the goals we announced in 2011.
Our annual re:t2win global wellbeing competition, which encourages employees to establish tness teams to compete for The Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement cash prizes for the charities of their choice, continued to grow in articulates our commitment to a diverse workforce and 2012.
116 teams 84 in 2011 took part across Reed Elsevier and environment that respects individuals and their contributions, ran, walked, cycled and swam a total of 106,271 miles 171,027 regardless of their gender, race or other characteristics.
Strategy is focused on translating the Statement into practical action.
Among its commitments is maintaining a D&I Advisory 2012 OBJECTIVES Progress Group comprised of a senior business and HR leader from each Undertake global Employee Completed with 77% business unit, supported by a broader D&I Working Group.
Opinion Survey participation rate Together with D&I specialists, Pluribus, we carried out a D&I Initiate diversity and inclusion Pilots completed for all training pilot in 2012 involving 78 staff from all business units.
training pilot business units Course content included making the business case for D&I on Capture and report on Metrics include number of ethical, economic, regulatory, and reputational grounds.
We wellbeing performance and its staff completing wellness encourage afnity groups, like womens forums, which provide benets screenings 34% of US support and mentoring and encourage community involvement.
employees participated In 2012, we held a stakeholder session with our CR Forum chaired 15% in 2011 : benets by a member of senior management and involving individuals include understanding representing all key business functions and businesses on health status of workforce diversity and inclusion for media companies and Reed Elsevier.
to better target wellness Participants included the head of diversity and corporate social programmes responsibility for one of our customers: the CEO of the Association of Women in Science: the head of talent for one of our business 2013 OBJECTIVES units: a diversity expert: and the convener of the Media CSR Follow up on global Employee Opinion Survey results Forum.
As a member of ID Inclusion and Diversity 100, a network for sharing D&I knowledge among FTSE100 peers, we hosted a Expand diversity and inclusion training across business panel on boardroom diversity with executive search rm leaders units Egon Zehnder, JCA Group and the Zygos Partnership.
Institute health coach programme to provide personalised support to staff In 2012, we conducted a global Employee Opinion Survey EOS to understand how our people feel about Reed Elsevier.
We donated $1 for every completed survey to our global fundraising effort forPlan UK focused on education for girls, and had a 77% participation rate.
Overall, employees rate Reed Elsevier as a company that employs strong, ethical principles in its business practices with improved scores since the last survey in 2009 in overall satisfaction, innovation and customer focus.
We are prioritising areas identied in the EOS that remained at with localaction plans led by managers.
Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace asoutlined in the Reed Elsevier Health and Safety Policy.
We concentrate on areas of greatest risk, for example, warehouses, events and exhibitions.
However, as a primarily ofce-based company, our key impact areas are posture-related muscular strains, slips trips and falls.
To reduce our severity rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, we conduct risk assessments, and work with a third party in the US to assign a nurse case manager toeach complex or severe claim.
We have achieved a 70% reduction in the severity rate since 2008.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 45 The Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge advances sustainable ENVIRONMENTAL access to safe water and sanitation where it is presently at risk.
CHALLENGE: Projects must be innovative, scalable, involve local communities and address issues such as health, education, and ADVANCING ACCESS non-discrimination.
2012 winners were the Centre for Affordable Water and Sanitation Technology, for a biosand TO SAFE WATER lter to improve drinking water in Nepal, and Sanergy, a network of small, high quality sanitation centres in Kenya, AND SANITATION run by local entrepreneurs.
THE REED ELSEVIER ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGE DEMONSTRATES THAT THE DISSEMINATION OF RESEARCH AND IDEAS IS A POWERFUL FORCE FOR IMPROVING HEALTH AND QUALITY OF LIFE.
WINNING PROJECTS EMBODY CREATIVE SOLUTIONS TO ACCESSING WATER AND SANITATION IN AREAS OF GREAT NEED.
Youngsuk YS Chi Director, Corporate Affairs $150,000 awarded over the past two years Villagers in Nepal will gain access to better water through iron-amended biosand lters BUSINESS REVIEW 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 4.
Community In 2012, we surveyed more than 300,000 customers through RE Cares, our global community programme, promotes education NetPromoter Score measuring customer loyalty and business for disadvantaged young people aligned with our unique dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen understanding contributions as a business, and allows staff up to two days off per of their needs and further drives forward a customer-centric year for their own community work.
We donated 2.5min cash culture across Reed Elsevier.
Results, reviewed by the CEO and including through matching gifts and the equivalent of2.8m in senior managers and communicated to staff, illuminate where we products, services and staff time in 2012.
30% of employees were are doing well and where we must do better.
To aid colleagues who engaged in volunteering through RE Cares andwe reached 20,200 work with customers, in 2012 we began a CR Sales Academy to disadvantaged young people through volunteering, in-kind, and help them articulate our commitment to corporate responsibility cash donations.
and the benets it provides to our business such as reducing risk An international network of more than 180 RE Cares Champions and strengthening our corporate reputation.
Sessions included engage colleagues throughout the year in activities such as the our approach to corporate responsibility, the environment, RECares Challenge, which rewards business-sponsored accessibility, and governance.
Content is made available to all community engagement.
staff through the Corporate Responsibility section of the corporate intranet.
Each September, we hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our community activities, with volunteering spotlighted on Global RE In the year, we consulted more widely on the Reed Elsevier Editorial Cares Day during the month.
In 2012, activities involved more than Policy, including with our European Works Council, further 3,300 staff in local community projects.
Among them, LexisNexis strengthening provisions such as editorial independence as a result.
Risk Solutions held the Windward Challenge, a 5km race in support The Editorial Policy stipulates our responsibility to make clear of KaBoom!
which provides recreational spaces for children, distinctions between fact and opinion and user-generated or other involving more than 500 staff and members of the community.
content and encourages dialogue on our content, including through social media.
We made it available to all staff through the corporate During the month we held our annual global book drive yielding intranet and publicly available through the Reed Elsevier website.
more than 12,000 books for local and developing world readers, and announced the winners of the second Recognising Those We are committed to improving access to our products and WhoCare Awards to highlight the contributions to RE Cares of services for all users, regardless of physical ability.
In 2012, eight individuals and four RE Cares teams.
Individual winners wedrafted a Reed Elsevier Accessibility Policy that expresses from across the business took part in visits to projects we are ourdesire to lead the industry in providing accessibility solutions supporting through Plan International in Peru and India led by to customers and contribute to international standards with Youngsuk YS Chi, Reed Elseviers Director of Corporate Affairs, products that are perceivable, operable, understandable, and and Hugo Zhang, Reed Elsevier Chinas Director of Government robust.
In the year, members of the Accessibility Working Group Affairs.
The winning teams were from Elsevier Amsterdam, logged 76 projects in accessibility undertaken during the course LexisNexis Dayton, LexisNexis New York, and Reed Exhibitions ofthe year.
Elseviers Global Books Digital Archive fullled 4,000 Norwalk who won cash prizes for their chosen charities.
disability requests, 50% of them through AccessText.
org, a service it helped establish.
2012 OBJECTIVES Progress 25% of employees volunteering 30% achieved Progress 2012 OBJECTIVES through RE Cares Roll out updated Editorial Extended consultation on Reach 10,000 disadvantaged 20,200 reached Policy Editorial Policy: disseminated young people through via global intranet and volunteering, in-kind, and corporate website cashdonations Develop CR Sales Academy CR Sales Academy initiated with sessions on 2013 OBJECTIVES corporate responsibility Skills-based Two Days volunteer drive all staff have two performance, the days each year for community work of their own choosing environment, accessibility, and governance 25% of locations involved in RE Cares Month Develop Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier Accessibility Accessibility Policy Policy drafted: principles include leading industry in providing accessibility solutions to customers 2013 OBJECTIVES Embed updated Editorial Policy Incorporate corporate responsibility component into regular customer-facing staff training Consult on Reed Elsevier Accessibility Policy and begin implementation Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 47 6.
Environment We require our suppliers to meet the high standards we set for In 2012, we launched our updated environmental targets following ourselves.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to extensive consultation with stakeholders.
Our targets reect all laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour ourperformance and key issues and can be found along with full and the environment.
Through our Socially Responsible Supplier environmental performance details in the 2012 Corporate SRS database, in 2012 we tracked 477 critical, preferred and Responsibility Report at reporting.
strategic suppliers, and those we deem high risk according to We attained 33% of our electricity from renewable sources in the criteria from the Corporate Executive Boards Global Country year and were ranked as the 2012 sector leader in the Carbon Analysis Support Tool, human trafcking data from the US State Disclosure Project, representing 655 investors with $78,000bn Department and rankings in the Environmental Performance under management.
Index produced by Yale University and Columbia University.
Thetracking list changes year on year based on the number of Our Environmental Champions network, employee-led Green suppliers we do business with who meet the required criteria.
Teams, and engagement through networks such as Publishers Westarted 2012 with 47% of suppliers on the SRS tracking list as Database for Responsible Ethical Paper Sourcing, inform signatories to the Supplier Code and reached 75% by year end.
management plans to address our environmental impact.
Wehave embedded signing the Supplier Code into our e-sourcing Amongthem is the Reed Elsevier Environmental Standards tool as one of the criteria for doing business with us and have an programme, which sets benchmark performance levels and additional 1,925 signed codes.
inspires green competition among ofces.
In 2012, 69 sites 58% of key locations achieved five or more standards attaining Specialist supply chain auditors, Intertek, undertook 52 external green status.
Reed Elseviers CFO wrote to all staff recognising audits for 2012 of high risk suppliers.
Any incidence of Supplier Code their achievement on World Environment Day and also identied non-compliance identied in the audit process triggers a corrective Green Heroes across the company, nominated by their peers for action plan with supplier remediation required on all issues.
To engage suppliers on key issues, we broadened our Socially We have a positive environmental impact through our Responsible Supplier Academy covering the audit process, environmental publications and services which spread good environmental management, diversity and inclusion, community practice, encourage debate, and aid researchers and decision engagement, preventing bribery, and the UN Global Compact, makers.
The most recent results from independent Market among other topics.
Analysis System show our share of citations in environmental Progress 2012 OBJECTIVES science represented 33% of the total market, and 71% in energy and fuels.
In 2012, CEO Erik Engstrom signed a CEO Water 75% of key suppliers as 75% 361 of 477 key Mandate Communiqu calling on government leaders attending Supplier Code of Conduct suppliers : 1,925 other the Rio 20 Earth Summit to prioritise sustainable water.
signatories Code signatories 2012 OBJECTIVES Progress 50 external audits of high risk 56 completed includes suppliers 4 carried over from 2011 25% of electricity from 33% achieved Broaden Socially Responsible More subjects covered renewable energy or offsets Supplier Academy such as diversity and 50% of key locations to achieve 58% achieved 69 locations inclusion and accessibility: five or more RE Environmental vs. 40 in 2011 47% increase in Standards registrations over 2011 Launch updated environmental Launched externally targets through annual reporting 2013 OBJECTIVES documents: internally 78% of key suppliers as Supplier Code of Conduct through Environmental signatories Champions and Green 55 external audits of high risk suppliers Teams Develop US Supplier Diversity Plan 2013 OBJECTIVES 35% of electricity from renewable energy or offsets 60% of key locations to achieve five or more updated REEnvironmental Standards Map range of Reed Elsevier environmental products andservices BUSINESS REVIEW 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Intensity Absolute 2012 achievement achievement 2012 Intensity gure Target to date to date Absolute per million 2015 vs 2010 2012 vs 2010 2012 vs 2010 gure turnover Scope 1 20% intensity -19% -18% 10,752 tCO e 1.76 tCO e 2 2 Climate change Scope 2 10% intensity -15% -14% 127,105 tCO e 20.78 tCO e 2 2 Scope 3 business travel 15% intensity 0% 1% 34,950 tCO e 5.71 tCO e 2 2 Of ce energy use intensity 20% intensity -22% -21% 115,724 MWh 18.92 MWh Percentage of energy from Energy renewable or offset 50% absolute 33% 73,257 MWh Average data centre Power Usage Effectiveness PUE 1.70 absolute 1.70 125,103 MWh Percentage of key locations Water in water stressed areas 3 achieving usage of 10m of water perperson per year 100% absolute 69% 24 locations Waste Waste diverted from land ll 75% absolute 67% 7,056 tonnes We achieved the following recognition in 2012: Business in the Community Carbon Disclosure Project Caring for Climate Deloitte Sustainability CR Index Leadership Index top 25 performer Reporting Scorecard Platinum status FTSE 350 sector leader FTSE 350 sector leader current good leading practice Dow Jones Sustainability ECPI Ethical Funds Ethibel Pioneer and FTSE4Good Index Indexes recognition Ethibel Excellence included included included SAM Sustainability Awards Triodos Bank Sustainable UK National Business VBDO supply chain bronze medalist Equity Bond Fund Awards benchmark first in the publishing Sustainability top 10 sector Awards nalist Vigeo top 20 strong performer: top 120 in Europe, top 120 globally THE FULL 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT IS AVAILABLE AT REPORTING.
