Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Corporate social responsibility Business ethics Our people The Renishaw Group Business Code sets Diversity out the principles of business conduct Renishaw is an equal opportunities andstandards that all companies in the employer operating a strict policy of Renishaw Group are expected to follow.
non-discriminatory behaviour, offering an Itis communicated to all staff and is environment that promotes innovation and available to external organisations on progress within which individual talents request, or via the Renishaw website.
We have a diverse mix of age ranges, gender and ethnicity at the end On 1st July 2011 the UK Bribery Act 2010 of June 2012 22.0% of UK staff are aged came into force and as relayed last year over 50 2011 20.4%, with 13.5% below 25 we published our zero-tolerance attitude 2011 13.3% and 23.7% of employees are to bribery and corruption.
up last year analysed therisks of bribery We wish to be within the Group and following its Proper consideration is given to recommendations made during the year, applications for employment from disabled recognised the Board approved theadoption and people who are employed where suitable implementation of the Renishaw Group for appropriate vacancies.
Opportunities collectively and Anti-Bribery Policy thePolicy which are given to employees who become isavailable at wwwrenishaw.
disabled to continue in their employment individually as or to be trained for other positions.
The Policy has been issued to all staff leaders and including new staff as part of their Health and safety induction process and a dedicated Health and safety matters are given contributors intranet page has been set up with related special attention by the directors and key documentation.
Staff who may lastyear a management policy was inoureld and encounter bribery and corruption during established that improves the organisation, the course of their duties have been control and monitoring of matters relating ourcommunity.
identied and are undertaking an online to health and safety, as well as establishing training module, along with other training.
a framework for the completion, management and review of risk The in-house legal department has assessments.
The aim is to safeguard Ben Taylor CEng, FIMechE worked with senior management both employees, customers and visitors.
During Assistant Chief Executive inthe UK and other countries in which the year there were no workforce fatalities.
theGroup operates to identify the higher risk areas and is working in collaboration with management through a compliance programme to mitigate risk.
Theprogramme includes providing thePolicy to agents and other representatives of the Group and due diligence procedures when appointing new agents and representatives.
TheGroup will continue to monitor compliance through its internal controls processes andregular reports to the Auditcommittee and the Board.
51 40 Record number of apprentices in training Record summer graduate intake 38 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Staff retention of the Board in an open discussion forum.
Training and development Long service is rewarded at every five A copy of the presentation and responses The maintenance of a highly skilled years of service and can include small to questions raised at these meetings workforce is essential to the future of gifts, extra holiday allowance and a cash aremade available to all worldwide staff thebusiness and the directors place great sum, with 242 staff achieving a milestone via the Groups intranet.
Following the emphasis on the continuation of the this financial year, including 18 people who announcement of interim and annual Companys approved training policy.
achieved awards of 25 years or more.
financial results, all staff in Gloucestershire During the year examples of expenditure Agroup performance bonus programme and Edinburgh via videoconference on staff training include 178,000 on rewards all qualifying staff with an annual arealso invited to attend a series of apprenticeships and 203,000 on centrally bonus based upon group results and presentations given by the Assistant administered cross-departmental training.
A strength of the Company throughout requires that a full year of service is A worldwide staff newsletter Probity itshistory has been the encouragement completed from 1st July to 30th June.
ispublished every two months, with ofyoung talent, with an apprenticeship Variable working time has been adopted contributions encouraged from across scheme started in 1979 and sponsored as standard practice for most UK staff, theGroup.
Printed copies are produced student scheme in 1984.
During this allowing staff members to create a better for manufacturing areas and also summer some 80undergraduates worklife balance, whilst at the same time distributed to Renishaw pensioners.
201185 entered Renishaw for paid maintaining full support to Renishaws Throughout the year other company placements 60summer placements, worldwide customer base.
Other benets updates and items felt to be of interest 15one-year industrial placements and that staff receive include the use of gyms toemployees are also regularly 5pre-university placements, amongst at the New Mills, Stonehouse, Ireland communicated via email.
which the most promising students will andWoodchester sites and subsidised begiven financial incentives to maintain a The Company encourages business restaurants at the most populous UK relationship with the Company into the participation through direct employee locations.
There is a high quality crche future.
There are 51craft and technical feedback, either to immediate supervisors atthe Pune facility in India.
In the UK there apprentices currently in training 2011 33 or board members.
Employee work are discounts for sports and social and 20 new starters confirmed for forums exist and representatives liaise with activities, administered by a volunteer September 2012 2011 20, plus 4 software management onemployee matters.
Afurther 40 recent graduates Annual individual appraisals are also held also started with Renishaw this summer UK staff turnover, excluding xed term across the Group which give employees 2011 30 ofwhich 32 are participating contract staff, has reduced compared aformal opportunity to feedback their inthe new comprehensive graduate tolast year at 5.5% 2011 6%, which thoughts about the Group, including induction programme that commenced compares very favourably with the 2011 asurvey that enables us to measure in2011.
average in the UK manufacturing sector employee satisfaction on a range of9.3% source: Chartered Institute of ofissues.
A suggestion scheme exists with awards Communication and participation for the best ideas received, plus an In the Gloucestershire locations, close inventors award scheme for individuals totheir respective birthdays, staff who are named as inventors on patent members are invited to attend a applications that are subsequently communications meeting at which board granted.
These meetings provide staff with information about developments within the Group and give them the opportunity to ask any question Above: Software engineers at Chareld site Above: Inspection of circuit board assembly at Woodchester site 39 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Our next generation Tom, aged 23, is currently training as a Several directors of our business divisions production engineer at our Stonehouse are former sponsored students see page machine shop and his route into 41 and Gareth Hankins, Director, Group apprenticeships was far from conventional, Manufacturing Services Division joined us having initially started a mechanical as an apprentice aged just 16 and was engineering degree which he quickly supported by Renishaw to undertake decided was too theoretical and lacking andcomplete his engineering degree in inpractical aspects.
To help encourage other young people We were especially proud that this year, toconsider an engineering career, this Tom Silvey, one of our third-year technical year we also supported the organisers apprentices, won two awards at ofthe UKs largest manufacturing trade Gloucestershires inaugural Apprenticeships show, MACH 2012, with their special Awards.
As well as being voted the education initiative.
Over the five days of Outstanding Apprentice in the Engineering the show 16 of our apprentices, including & Manufacturing category, Tom also Tom, led groups of 14 to 16 year-old received the Diamond Jubilee students on tours of student-friendly Gloucestershire Apprentice of the Year exhibitor stands including Renishaw award which recognises the years most tolearn about the vital role that the latest outstanding apprentice across disciplines engineering technology plays in our as varied as health, manufacturing, finance everyday lives and the excellent career and construction.
Renishaw was well represented at the awards as two of our other young apprentices, Aaron Booth 3rd year and Ollie Counsell 1st year, also achieved nominations for the Engineering & Manufacturing award.
Above: Renishaws staff newsletter is published Above: Award-winning apprentice Tom Silvey frequently during the year 40 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 A measure of success from sponsored students to senior directors Now aged 41, both Dave that we have made in our Wallace and Tim Prestidge staff development schemes joined Renishaw as over many years.
sponsored students over Now members of the Executive 20years ago.
Together with Board see page 14 their varied Gareth Hankins, a graduate experiences in academia and and former apprentice industry are now being used whois now Director, Group positively tohelp the next Manufacturing Services generation ofengineers.
Division and Will Lee, Forexample, Timisa trustee of aformer sponsored student Young Engineers, a charitable who now heads our Laser & organisation whose objective Measurement Calibration isto inspire young people products division, they toconsider careers in illustrate the value to the engineering.
business of the investments See more at www.
com $ 41 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued UK employees mix Staff turnover % 1 1 3 Renishaw staff 2 turnover rate 2 By By UK average staff gender age turnover rate 15.3 15.2 15.0 12.4 9.3 2012 2011 2012 2011 1 Over 50 % 22.0 20.4 7.0 7.0 7.0 6.0 Source: 5.5 1 Male % 76.3 76.3 2 25 50 % 64.5 66.3 Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development 2 Female % 23.7 23.7 3 Below 25 % 13.5 13.3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The partial refurbishment of our Miskin site Emissions Fig.
1 The environment included a 100,000 investment in very Unless otherwise stated, the analysis Renishaw takes its responsibilities for high standard Pilkington energiKare inFigure 1 includes the Groups global theenvironment seriously and continues triple glazed low-emissivity glass windows operations for the 12-month period to make further investments to improve with Krypton gas lling, to achieve a 1stJune 2011 to 31st May 2012, with itsperformance in relation to energy U-value of just 0.9.
A new building in York theexception of MDL and Renishaw consumption, water usage, emissions and for our subsidiary MDL is also being built Advanced Materials.
The Company to the highest standards of the Building continues to optimise and control its The measurement of the overall impact Research Establishments Environmental energy consumption, as previously ofcarbon emissions within the Group is Assessment Method BREEAM, a rating reported, with an additional emphasis very complex given the geography and system which is recognised nationally upon cost control during the last scope of operations and in some cases andinternationally as the most robust 12-monthperiod.
estimates have been made for some andrigorous method for assessing the markets where data is not readily available.
Energy environmental performance of buildings.
The gures quoted can also be highly In the UK, installation of half-hourly As Renishaw consumed more than variable due to sharply uctuating ofcial metering for electricity consumption 6megawatts of electricity in 2008 we conversion rates.
In Scope 1 the purchase hasbeen completed, giving us the ability arebound by UK legislation to comply of the large Miskin factory accounts for to identify opportunities for reduced withthe CRC Energy efficiency Scheme much of the rise in gas consumption, consumption.
Investments have also formerly known as the Carbon Reduction whilst group vehicle fuel costs rose continued to be made in our monitoring Commitment and have registered by32% due to market factors.
Increases equipment to identify specic peaks accordingly.
To continue progress made involumes of generator diesel usage inelectricity usage, quantify reductions inrecent years by monitoring usage and to isprimarily due to the expansion of our andmake continuous improvements reduce CO emissions, we arecommitted Pune manufacturing facility.
The other across various sites.
Additionally, recent and continue to work towards achieving significant change was in Scope 3 where investments are allowing us to monitor the Carbon Trust Standard CTS which although we did purchase less metal this gasand water usage at our main UK sites, will also benefit us interms of our ranking year, the reduction appears much more allowing these energy streams to be within the CRC Energy efficiency Scheme significant due to the ofcial CO similarly reduced.
and any rebates due under the terms of conversion rates.
During the period we refurbished an older the scheme.
A best estimate is that 30,553 tonnes building at our New Mills headquarters ofCO were emitted through our site, taking the opportunity to upgrade activities 2011 30,607 tonnes.
Given interior lighting and control systems, thatthere were increased activity levels including passive infra-red detectors within theGroup and a continued focus andlower wattage lighting systems.
onimproving efficiencies in energy management, the gures are very susceptible to the ofcial conversion factors.
42 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Fig.
1 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Fig.
2 Landll totals tonnes CO2 tonnes Scope 1 significant scope 3 Old Town Woodchester New Mills Stonehouse Gas consumption 1,456 Business travel 2,210 Owned transport 2,469 Product distribution 4,058 Generator diesel 85 Metal purchase 4,622 Post Communications 398 Heating oil 75 Total scope 1 4,085 Total significant scope 3 11,288 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 15,180 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 Total scope 2 15,180 2009 total 2010 total 2011 total 2012 total 225.8 tonnes 154.8 tonnes 151.9 tonnes 181.8 tonnes UK data only Data for significant sites Although not included within these Reduction of waste at source is seen as a Although only one of the Groups products standard Government measures, key contributor to overall waste reduction.
currently falls within the scope of the wecontinue to recognise that there is Continuing efforts are being made to requirements of the European Directive asignicant impact caused by staff driving distribute both technical and sales 2002 95 EC on the Restriction of the to our Gloucestershire sites.
There is very documentation in electronic format and useof Hazardous Substances RoHS, limited public transportation serving these the encoder business division no longer allnew position encoder products and sites and therefore we actively encourage distributes user guides to its customers, themajority of legacy encoder products car sharing through lift-share notices with up-to-date guides available through are now RoHS compliant and we are incommunal areas, by hosting a specic aspecial support website.
Regular continuing to develop and implement area on the Company intranet and through marketing communications with processes for other metrology products the circulation of regular emails that remind customers in our main markets is now toensure that they will meet the extended staff of the benets of car sharing.
solely by email, and our employee scope of the directive which will be newsletter Probity is primarily distributed implemented in 2017, whilst achieving Waste Management Fig.
2 electronically, with a small quantity printed several earlier dates for healthcare Renishaw has continued to analyse waste for manufacturing sites.
streams and strives to increase recycling Renishaw staff no longer receive hard and reduce amounts sent to landll, We are continuing to work hard to copy pay slips but can access these notably paper, cardboard, plastic cups, meetthe requirements of the European electronically.
Analysis Directive on the Registration, Evaluation, ofthe waste streams at the main UK sites Commercial documentation, such as Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals shows a 20% increase in landll, reversing invoices and acknowledgements, is also REACH and to date no substances of the positive trend seen over the previous available through a paperless facility, with very high concern SVHC have been four years.
Although there continued to be customers encouraged to accept this form identied in our products at a level reductions at Old Town and Stonehouse, of transaction.
To co-ordinate the New Mills site was the subject of ouractivities with regard to compliance significant refurbishment and building with both RoHS and REACH directives, waste during the period as wesought we have a dedicated project manager tomaximise space in light ofstaff and whomanages risk assessments and business growth, whilst at Woodchester information gathering from suppliers.
we also cleared two older buildings leading to significant amounts of generalwaste.
com $ 43 44.3 46.1 17.4 8.2 62.0 38.9 42.0 64.3 80.3 52.2 52.0 72.7 39.2 17.6 40.5 36.6 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued 400 Number of visitors to April community opendays at Stonehouse Above: Sir David McMurtry speaks to UK Business Above: Ben Taylor addresses the British Governments Minister, Mark Prisk MP during Stroud Festival of Asian Ambassadors Manufacturing and Engineering alongside senior UK Government Ministers The community and business leaders, whilst in May 2012, Renishaw is one of Gloucestershires Ben Taylor was invited to speak to the largest companies and we recognise British Governments Asian Ambassadors thepositive role that we can play through and High Commissioners.
Throughout the our ongoing relationships with the local year we also hosted business networking community, businesses, schools and groups at our facilities.
With the recognised national shortage in the UK of skilled During the year we sponsored and actively engineers and scientists, we continue contributed to numerous local community tocommunicate a positive story about festivals, including the Nibley Music therole of science, engineering and Festival where The Renishaw Stage manufacturing in enhancing the lives of provides a platform for young acts in the thegeneral populace and the attractions early stage of their careers.
We sponsored of a career within these sectors.
the Renishaw Science & Engineering Zone at the Gloucestershire Motor Throughout the year we therefore host Showwhere we provided various tourgroups of all ages, which in the past interactive activities for younger visitors.
12 months has included local primary We continued to forge closer links with andsecondary schools, university Gloucester Rugby Club, which plays in the undergraduates, charitable organisations English Premiership league, sponsoring and investment clubs.
the clubs young centre Henry Trinder In April 2012, we made a significant andthe Young Player of the Year award.
contribution to the success of the first We helped to support the costs of many Stroud Festival of Manufacturing and local town and village celebrations of Engineering, which aimed to highlight the HerMajesty The Queens Diamond importance of engineering within the area Jubilee, including the funding of a special and the many career opportunities within commemorative mug that was presented the sector.
As part of the event our staff to all schoolchildren in the local town of contributed to a Women in Engineering Wotton-under-Edge.
day, and we also held open days at our Stonehouse machine shop for local Charity schools and the general community, Over 20 years ago the Company created attracting 400 visitors.
We are also a the Renishaw Charities Committee RCC member of the Gloucestershire Local to distribute funds to support charitable and Enterprise Partnerships Sector Group voluntary organisations, and to support the forAdvanced Engineering.
individual charitable efforts ofstaff through We actively support the business a match-funding scheme.
The RCC is community both regionally and nationally, made up of staff representatives from imparting our knowledge through theCompanys main Gloucestershire roundtable discussions and business sitesand has a particular focus to assist conferences, and sponsor award organisations that help enrich the lives of programmes.
In the past year, for example, children and adults, from toddler groups we spoke about export trade at the EEF and sports clubs, through to organisations National Manufacturing Conference that support the disabled and the bereaved.
44 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Above: Together in Matson community group who Above: The first group of Young Brunels see over won the Wish Campaign A separate fund is also administered by ood water incidents.
During the year the theRCC, which donates monies to aid the RCC donated 2,000 to help purchase a victims of global disasters, which during the new boat for the organisations Sharpness 250 past year included donations to support station which was set up in 1986 after the Christian Aids work following the oods tragic drowning of a mother, father and Number of charities and voluntary  during the year emergency in the Indian state of Orissa.
small child who were caught out by the fast incoming tide.
During the year the RCC made donations to around 250 individual organisations A major initiative that the RCC funded totalling over 105,000.
Beneciaries were during the year was The Citizen diverse in nature including schools, infant newspapers Wish Campaign, which playgroups, carers support groups, gave local community groups, schools hospital appeals, air ambulance groups, and youth organisations the opportunity Multiple Sclerosis therapy centres, the towin a share of 15,000 to fund their Samaritans, youth football clubs, church projects.
Some 75 organisations applied appeals, food banks, senior citizen groups, tobe part of the competition, and after scout groups, youth clubs and hospice evaluation by the RCC and staff from the care organisations.
newspapers owners, 30 of these were shortlisted for the final stage of the The Door is a youth project created in the campaign, where supporters of each town of Stroud in 1991 for the benefit of organisation collected daily tokens allyoung people aged 11 to 25, including votes from The Citizen.
There were those excluded from school or their over42,000 votes cast and Together in homes.
It gives youngsters a safe venue Matson, a community group from the city away from the streets where they can take of Gloucester, received the most votes to part in fun, challenging activities and trips win 1,800.
However, all shortlisted groups to help channel their energies in a positive were awarded at least 100, and the RCC manner.
Staff also carry out training and ultimately decided to donate 100 to the mentoring to ultimately help people turn other 45 organisations not shortlisted, as their lives around.
After seeing the good all met the committees criteria for funding.
work first-hand the RCC donated 5,000 The total funding to all 75 community to help the organisation move to a new groups amounted to 19,500 and helped location where it can provide more the RCC uncover worthy groups that services and become self-funding.
would not necessarily be aware of The Severn Area Rescue Association Renishaws charitable support for SARA in Gloucestershire, is an inshore thecommunity.
rescue boat and land search organisation covering the Severn Estuary and surrounding area.
The River Severn is a notoriously dangerous waterway, with the second highest tidal range in the world.
SARA provides Search and Rescue services 24 7, 365 days of the year and has crew specialised in the rescue of endangered persons from fast moving and 45 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued We sponsored numerous activities that Education aim to inspire young engineers, such as The Company has a fundamental aim to the Brunel Institutes Young Brunels nurture the next generation of engineers initiative, where every year, 12 children and scientists and during the past areselected to join a five-year scheme to 12months has taken steps to accelerate mentor themtowards a career in science engagement with the educational sector.
Further events include During the year our new education the BigBang Fair in Swansea, the liaisonexecutive took her role within Careering Around initiative organised by theCompany and she is helping us to the Cheltenham Science Festival, and the co-ordinate and initiate new activities Engineering Education Scheme Wales.
andstronger relationships with selected Aspart of the latter event, two of our secondary schools, universities and STEM young graduates mentored projects at Science Technology Engineering and Monmouth School and Chepstow School, Mathematics enrichment organisations.
with the former project winning the award The aims are to encourage STEM teaching for Best Application and has also been and out-of-school clubs, to raise the prole entered as a nalist at the National Big of Renishaw as a potential employer and Bang Fair being held in London in 2013. to ensure that we attract the most talented individuals.
Greenpower is a national organisation thatruns competitions for primary and The Company also continued its policy secondary schools to design, build and ofopening its doors to visits from primary then race battery powered cars.
In May schools, secondary schools and wewere pleased to host Greenpowers universities from the UK and overseas.
Goblin class regional event for primary This year one-week work experience school pupils in Bristol and Bath, who placements were also given to over raced their vehicles around a car park at 50students under the age of 18. our New Mills headquarters.
Last October We again supported National Science we also sponsored the Western Regional andEngineering Week in March, when Heat of the Secondary Schools four of our engineers were released to competition held at Castle Combe mentor pupils at Bluecoat Primary School racecircuit.
Our staff were Within Renishaw we also run our own each allocated a class and helped them Applications Academy which offers a toconstruct a working model which varied training curriculum from Face-torelated to a mode oftransport.
Face Communications and Report Thechildren, aged 5 to 11, learned new Writing, to the Fundamentals of skills including creating electrical circuits Manufacturing and CNC programming.
Wealso helped to During the year 94 staff from across the fund the purchase ofmaterials and the Group benefitted from Academy training, week culminated withanaward ceremony plus many more who made use of forthe most talentedpupils.
e-learning programmes available as part Throughout the year we have also ofour new learning management system participated in numerous graduate LMS in which we have made a significant andschool careers fairs, including investment.
The LMS software is used presentations from our apprentices and forthe administration, documentation, graduates.
This includes sponsorship of tracking and reporting of training aPostgraduate Research Symposium programmes, classroom and online atImperial College, London, where we events, e-learning programmes and helpjudge and award prizes for the trainingcontent.
46 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 The Renishaw Applications Academy gives our engineers the skills to give expert customer support With an increasingly products and commercial diverse range of products, aspects of the business, are training is vital to spending a series of six-month maintaining our reputation assignments on key projects, for excellent technical including one at the Advanced support.
Nowhere is this Manufacturing Research more important than Centre in Shefeld.
China, where we have Li Xiang says that the signicantly expanded Academy will also help to ourcustomer base in improve liaison between HQ recent years and our Chinese ofces when Last year we recruited three the engineers return to China Chinese MSc engineering in summer 2013, as they will graduates from Shefeld have a deep understanding of University who, after a both the UK corporate and 13-week induction programme local Chinese culture.
which covered all metrology He Jiandong front and Li Xiang to the right with Academy Manager, Paul Saunders are just See more at www.
com $ twoofthe many beneciaries of the Renishaw Applications Academy 47
