32 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility March 2012.
This included introducing a Our People tiered approach to providing a centralised Training Rentokil Initial employs 60,000 people in helpdesk, HR administration and payroll some 60 countries.
Its objective was to enable the by colleagues in 2008, are Service, HR teams to achieve smarter working by Relationships and Teamwork.
They are university launched to coordinate all learning and development automating people processes and embedded into our organisation and in generating information, giving them extra the annual colleague engagement survey time to focus on strategic priorities and almost eight out of ten colleagues said make better informed decisions.
8,000 they had a good understanding of our Training days delivered in 2012 values.
More information on our colleagues People Services has four main is set out in the following Corporate components: People Services UK, the team Responsibility pages.
which offers a SSC to improve processes 1,120 right across the employee lifecycle and Creating a great place to work Training courses completed online improve vastly case management and Our colleagues play a critical role in response times to the workforce: Workday, delivering the high standards of customer which is a cloud-based self-service human service that our customers expect.
The resources information system covering Diversity Company supports its colleagues through hire to leavers processes: JobTrain, an HR functional team operating with a which is an e-recruitment system to ensure shared functional perspective across all more cost effective hiring and candidate 33,350 divisions.
A range of KPIs are used to tracking: and Learning Management, via UK headcount monitor colleagues performance, the U portal, to improve the learning and Employee gender mix % motivation and enablement.
In 2012 the People Services team handled over 23,000 In 2012 the Company launched U, its cases and there were over 30,000 in-house university.
This coordinates all Workday transactions initiated by either learning and development activities across managers or People Services.
It operates through various channels: online: face to face: within In 2012 the Company commenced colleague roles: and for recruits induction.
recording diversity data through People By the end of 2012 over 8,000 training Services.
In the UK it has ethnic origin data days had been delivered, a further 1,120 for over 60% of colleagues and this effort Key Key courses were completed in U Online and will continue throughout 2013.
The gender 54% Male 17,984 46% Female 15,366 almost 100 managers had attended the breakdown for the UK is 54% male and Living Leadership programme.
Of those in the UK that are work level 3 operational management and The Companys General Management above, 31% are female.
The Company Engagement GM and finance graduate programme is also has worldwide data for those now in its second year within UK and managers that are work level 3 and above.
With an intake of 15 GM graduates in 2011 and 16 GM plus These total 2,364 across the globe and 71% 3% seven finance graduates in 2012, the 30% are female.
Of the Companys Colleague Points above the Rentokil Initial graduate population has graduate intake 39% are female.
The engagement Service Industry British, French, Dutch, Italian, Spanish, Companys policy is to recruit, appoint and norm African, Indian, Swedish, Polish, Greek and promote on the merit of the individual.
Within Initial Facilities, which employs the Every colleague is given an annual majority of the Companys colleagues, the opportunity to express their views through divisional managing director chairs a a condential survey, Your Voice Counts.
Diversity Board which has reviewed and The results with key measures of updated policies and procedures including colleague engagement and enablement equal opportunities, family friendly policies, are fed back to colleagues and action recruitment and selection.
The division has plans developed.
76% of colleagues identied that one of the gaps in moving responded in 2012 68% in 2011. from operative to supervisor is literacy and 24 cleaning operatives and supervisors working numeracy and has therefore put 63 A key focus for the central HR team is to on the London Underground successfully colleagues though the Values Programme completed their apprenticeships gaining a deliver high quality HR systems and NVQ Level 2 in Cleaning and Support Services which incorporates adult literacy and processes.
75% of managers in the implementation of the global grading and Healthcare business unit have been trained performance management programmes, to NVQ Level Two certication in equality the People Services function was launched and diversity.
to a pilot population of 2,500 colleagues in
