48 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Report of the Board Report of the Board Governance below board level Dialogue with stakeholders The Chief Executive chairs the company executive board The board recognises that it is managing the group ultimately on comprising the groups operational heads and heads of the behalf of its shareholders and therefore places great importance finance, human resources and information services functions.
The board also recognises They meet regularly to review performance, priorities and the contribution made by other providers of capital and is open to operational actions.
Biographical information on executive hearing the views of such providers, so far as they are relevant to directors, Alan Brown, Jeremy Townsend and Andy Ransom, the Companys overall approach to governance.
is provided on pages 40 to 41 and information on other members The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer make of the company executive board is shown in their biographies themselves available to shareholders at all appropriate times on page 31.
The Company has a regular dialogue with institutional The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer lead monthly shareholders through one-to-one and group meetings, formal and quarterly business performance reviews with business unit investor and analyst conference calls as well as ad hoc management teams.
The groups change programmes driving communications, where appropriate capability improvements are monitored by regional and functional Formal presentations are held after full-year and half year results, programme boards chaired by members of the company to which investors and sell and buy-side analysts are invited.
These presentations are web-cast and any investor is able to The Companys disclosure committee, chaired by the Chief hear the presentation and related questions and answers via Financial officer, supports the boards responsibility for the the Companys website.
Slide presentations of results are hosted accuracy and timeliness of the disclosures made by the Company, on the Companys website as are recordings of meetings whether in connection with its financial reporting obligations or Conference calls for investors and analysts are hosted after on other matters.
the first and third quarter trading updates, with typical levels of participation in excess of 80 shareholders and analysts The Companys risk committee, chaired by the Chief Financial officer, has oversight of the groups risk and control functions Investor roadshows are conducted after full-year and interim and reviews the risks the group is facing and the effectiveness results, involving extensive investor meetings on each occasion of the internal controls.
The Chief Financial officer, supported by the group treasurer, regularly meets with and hears the views of representatives The governance process in business units comprises the of the debt capital markets application of group and local policies and procedures, management oversight, the analysis and management of risk, The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and committee all underpinned by the groups values and behaviours.
The chairmen are available to attend meetings with investors, operating framework is designed to ensure that decisions are as required taken at the right time by colleagues with appropriate authority, The Company provides opportunities for private client investor after considering all relevant factors from commercial to presentations across the UK reputational.
The group operates through locally constituted and The board receives material issued by shareholder representative governed legal entities in some 60 countries.
Corporate entities groups to ensure that the views and preferences of investors are are managed in compliance with local law and regulation and taken into account under principles set out in the groups code of conduct.
The Company sees the annual general meeting as an important opportunity for all shareholders to engage with the board over Corporate responsibility governance performance and other matters on the agenda for the meeting The Chief Executive takes personal responsibility for corporate and encourages both private and institutional shareholders responsibility and the company executive board has authority for to attend reviewing all aspects of corporate responsibility.
The main board During 2012 the Company held three Investor Seminars for reviews specic corporate responsibility matters on a regular basis shareholders, the investment community and other providers and on a broader basis at least once a year.
A Safety, Health and of finance giving an in-depth review of the facilities services, Environment SHE committee reports regularly to the main board, workwear and City Link businesses, following on from an with key performance indicators regularly reviewed internally and Investor Seminar on the pest control business at the end of 2011 published annually.
Further information on Corporate Responsibility can be found on pages 32 to 36.
The board is briefed on the Companys investor relations programme through a regular report from the head of investor relations as well as by periodic updates from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer Code Principle: E. 1 There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Code Principle: E. 2 The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Report of the Board 49 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company will distribute its printed annual report only to shareholders who have indicated to the Company that they wish to receive it in that form.
The Company will periodically canvas new shareholders on how they wish to receive their shareholder communications and did so in February this year.
The Companys annual report and other investor presentation material are available to all shareholders via the Companys website at www.
com John McAdam Chairman 14 March 2013 Shareholder Information Additional information for investors can be found on pages 131 and 132.
The Companys website contains more information on the Companys operations and our website investor centre contains information on past results and publications, press releases and analyst presentation material.
It also contains other information to help shareholders manage their holdings such as change of address or change of name notications, transfer of shares, lost share certicates, online and telephone share dealing facilities and how to receive your shareholder communications as well as including a link to the website of our share registrars, Capita Registrars.
