Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors Report other Statutory Disclosures 57 Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Change of control provisions holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or of securities or on voting rights.
terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as some commercial agreements and employee share plans.
None of these The articles of association also give power to the board to are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on appoint and replace directors, but also require directors to retire the group as a whole.
A description of the groups debt funding and submit themselves for re-election at the first annual general arrangements is set out in the finance review on pages 25 to 26 meeting following the appointment and for re-election by rotation, and in Note 20 to the financial statements which also describes although directors now submit themselves for re-election annually.
the change of control provisions relating to the groups euroThe articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of medium term note programme.
In accordance with the articles of association directors can be Charitable donations, communities appointed or removed by the board or shareholders in general and political donations meeting.
Amendments to the articles of association have to be The Companys approach to the community consists of three approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or by proxy separate elements charitable cash donations mainly linked at the general meeting.
Subject to company law and the articles to colleagues initiatives, community support and community of association the directors may exercise all the powers of the investment.
Community support and investment is locally rather Company and may delegate authority to committees and daythan centrally driven.
Donations for UK charitable purposes in to-day management and decision-making to individual executive 2012 amounted to 25,000 and a further 62,000 was donated in directors.
Copies of the articles of association are available upon other countries.
Total charitable donations amounted to 87,000 request and are displayed on the Companys website at 2011: 135,000.
This amount excludes value in kind donations www.
The Company operates a matched giving scheme whereby the Company matches donations raised Employment by colleague fundraising.
No Company donation was greater The group is committed to employment practices that follow best than 2,000.
Payments are made to a wide range of charitable practice and are based on equal opportunities for all colleagues, organisations both in the UK and overseas.
There were no irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, sexual orientation, payments to political organisations during 2012 2011: nil.
Further information on community and charitable activity can be found on page 36.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicants.
Directors and their interests In the event of colleagues becoming disabled, every effort is made Details of directors and their biographies can be found in the to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial continues and Governance Report on pages 40 and 41 and directors interests that appropriate re-training is made available.
It is the policy of are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 72.
Rentokil Initial that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to those of other colleagues.
Directors indemnity and insurance The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors, as The Company attaches considerable importance to is permitted by section 232-235 of the Companies Act 2006.
It has communicating with colleagues and systematically provides also purchased insurance cover for the directors against liabilities colleagues with information on matters of concern to them, arising in relation to the Company, as permitted by the Companies consulting them or their representatives regularly.
This insurance does not cover criminal activity.
communications take place at a group, divisional, business and team level in order to ensure that colleagues receive accurate Directors powers and share rights information in a timely manner and a variety of structures exist The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the for two-way communications at all levels.
At a corporate level Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders the group intranet is used to announce Company news with the and the conduct of the board and general meetings.
support of direct email communication from the executive team.
This is supplemented by a periodic electronic magazine called Under the articles, the directors are responsible for the Horizon which features interviews with senior executives about management of the business of the Company and may exercise major initiatives and performance.
all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys articles of association.
For example, In Europe the Company meets its European forum European the articles contain specic provisions and restrictions regarding Works Council usually twice a year to communicate with the Companys power to borrow money.
colleagues representatives from across the continent.
The Company maintains an open dialogue with the Forum at times Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in of business change.
Regional communications use a wide the articles of association and such authorities are renewed by range of channels such as email, regional intranets, electronic shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
The articles newsletters and quarterly magazines to communicate business do not contain special control rights or restrictions on transfer or issues including financial and economic factors affecting the limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements operations and performance by the Company.
Great importance for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds securities is placed on face-to-face team meetings.
in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the
