Corporate responsibility report The Restaurant Group plc TRG or the Group TRG is currently committed to three pledges within the acknowledges that it has a significant role to play with regard Responsibility Deal: to the community and wider environment in which it operates.
We have removed all added trans fats from our products: We will use our local presence to encourage children and This statement sets out the principal areas of focus and adults to become more active: activity that the Group has undertaken to date, and what the We commit to ensuring effective action is taken in all Group is looking at for future development, in managing its premises to reduce and prevent under-age sales of alcohol impact on customers, employees, communities and the primarily through rigorous application of Challenge 21 and wider environment.
This is split into five sections: Being a Responsibility Deal partner means that TRG is Our market the area of business that our strategy required to monitor and provide regular updates to the is focused on.
Department of Health with regard to the actions we are Our people the Groups policies and actions towards taking to full our commitments within the pledge.
Our communities how TRG interacts with those Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but TRG communities from which our customers and employees acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have are drawn.
a role to play in providing appropriate options from which individuals may choose when they eat out.
TRG strongly Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider believes that we should offer our guests choices on the environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to Our shareholders those that have invested capital provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more in the development of The Restaurant Group plc, indulgent options.
For many people dining out is a treat, and and to whom the Directors and management of the therefore the normal restrictions which may be applied to Group are accountable.
healthy eating on a day-to-day basis may be waived in favour of enjoyment and experience.
For example, whilst completing Our market the weekly shop a consumer may choose chocolate fudge The Restaurant Group plc has focused its attention on cake for their weekend dessert as opposed to a piece of fruit markets in the United Kingdom which have significant during the week.
For a number of years, dining out has been a growing market, and, partially as a result of this, there has Other initiatives been an increased focus from customers and regulatory We have taken significant steps to reduce our food miles authorities on health issues relating to our sector.
We have and this process will continue in 2013, with a focus on seen initiatives on alcohol, food in particular on calorie improving our supply chain efficiency and reducing the consumption and fat and salt content and smoking over number of deliveries, and therefore food miles, to our recent years and these are set to continue to be a focus.
Our Concessions business use only free range eggs and our pubs source locally where possible, supporting It is important that the Group continues to monitor local producers and brewers.
closely these developments and ensure that we offer our customers a broad range of choice in our restaurants, TRG is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange including healthy options.
SEDEX, which facilitates measurement and improvement in ethical business practices across the supply chain: 147 of Healthy eating our food suppliers and 30 other non-food suppliers provide In 2011, The Restaurant Group became a partner of the information describing their procedures and practices to the Public Health Responsibility Deal the Responsibility Deal, Group via SEDEX.
launched by the Department of Health.
The Responsibility Deal has been established to tap into the potential for For customers with dietary requirements, we will shortly be businesses and other organisations to improve public health providing allergen information via our website for ease of through their inuence over food, alcohol, physical activity access prior to or even during their visit via free guest Wi-Fi.
and health in the workplace.
As in previous years, there continue to be no known genetically modied foods in any product the Group uses and new suppliers are required to confirm that they will not provide the Group with such products.
We are also working with our suppliers to target and remove the Southampton Institute colourings that can cause hyperactivity in children and this will remain an on-going focus during 2013.
24 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Drink aware The Group also has a dened termination policy, should this All our restaurants operate a Challenge 21 policy, whereby be required.
Our focus on ensuring the recruitment of our we will ask for proof of identication to anyone who appears teams complies with current legislation continues.
We also participate in the Challenge 25 UK Border Agency instigating regular visits to employers to policy in Scotland.
We also do not permit the sale of alcohol check the validity of our employees rights to work in the UK to under 18s, even if the alcohol is for consumption with a we have instigated robust measures to prevent the possibility meal.
All of our restaurants offer a wide range of nonof TRG contravening the rules.
alcoholic drinks including fruit juices, carbonates, minerals and non-alcoholic cocktails and tap water is available for The Restaurant Group plc pays all of its employees at least customers free of charge.
the national minimum wage and does not utilise tips in any form to make up this rate.
All gratuities are paid to the Smoking employees, with credit card tips attracting only the usual From 1 July 2007 we have complied fully with the legislation tax deductions but, unlike some of our competitors, no throughout the United Kingdom which has banned smoking administration fee is taken by the company.
The Group allocates considerable resources to provide high Our people quality training to our teams.
Our training team is fully qualied The most important asset any company can have is its and delivers high quality courses to all of our staff, as well as people.
At The Restaurant Group plc we strive to nurture our guiding new and established team members throughout their individuals to build great teams.
Anyone in our teams has the development.
Training begins on the first day and is an opportunity to develop within the Group and we endeavour to on-going process of development and support throughout give them the tools and knowledge to encourage this.
the key to any successful business and our team is one of which we are especially proud.
With our portfolio of sites it is vital that our communication is of a very high standard.
Each day branch staff are given team Our Managers in Training scheme continues to identify and briengs, weekly meetings for staff and management are held develop talent.
This scheme is a key feature of the Groups and weekly communications packs are issued from head succession planning strategy and is designed to equip ofce to each brand.
Our senior managers are out in the managers and staff with the skills they need to develop their business extensively and interact daily with their branch careers at the next level and to ensure TRG remains their management and team members to ensure full two-way employer of choice over the long-term.
communication is present throughout the business.
We employ over 11,000 people and continue to increase this The health and safety of our customers and employees is number as we expand our business.
The Group opened a of paramount importance.
The Group has comprehensive further 28 restaurants during 2012 and created over 700 jobs procedures to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and for local communities in the process.
Our policies ensure that teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and we provide equal rights regardless of age, colour, gender, standards in place, and to enforce these we employ external sexual orientation, disability or religion and the diversity of auditors to perform a rolling programme of independent our people reects the diversity of the customers we serve.
safety audits and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have invested significant time and resources in health and The diversity of our people means we are able to meet the safety matters across the Group in recent years to maintain challenges our market presents.
We have a fair and open and enhance a clean, safe environment for our customers recruitment process with clear terms of employment and and staff.
we have developed a website www.
jobs to allow easier access to available jobs for potential Our communities employees across our Group.
All staff are provided with a Active involvement in the local communities around our contract of employment and copies of our staff handbook restaurants and pub restaurants is important to the Group.
along with other policies to ensure everyone is aware of our Whilst we operate successful national brands our focus is on rules, expectations and procedures, including grievance and local marketing, whether this is for Frankie & Bennys, with disciplinary issues.
The Group has an ethical dealings policy over 200 restaurants, or the individual pub at the heart of the in place which incorporates a strict prohibition on bribery and community.
TRG supports staff fundraising activities at a corruption in compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. brand and local level.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 25 Corporate responsibility report continued During 2012 we engaged in a number of local and national Our environment charitable events: 2012 has seen further work in pursuit of the Groups commitment to minimising its impact on the environment.
Frankie & Bennys have helped to raise in excess of Not only are the attitudes and expectations of our customers 300,000 for multiple charities.
Our support for CHAS changing over time but we recognise that the Groups Childrens Hospice Association Scotland alongside Real activities impact the natural environment, most signicantly Radio, saw 100,000 raised over Easter this year following with regard to energy consumption and carbon emissions, the annual CHAS Easter Bash event in Glasgow.
water consumption and the creation and removal of waste.
During 2012, Frankie & Bennys were made aware that the Innovative regulatory mechanisms are also being introduced daughter of one of our employees suffers from cerebral that may in future create a direct link between environmental palsy.
The family were going to great lengths to raise the outcomes and financial benets or penalties.
money for five year old Susanna to have an operation in the United States that would enable her to walk unaided.
Following successful trials in 2011, 2012 saw the roll out of A weekend of fundraising in July 2012, including a energy efficient lighting systems to almost 300 TRG sites donation by the company of almost 70,000 saw Frankie which we estimate will save upwards of four million kilowatt & Bennys raise over 144,000: more than double the hours of energy on an annual basis.
amount required for Susannas operation.
The remaining funds were donated to Caudwell Childrens Charity to help TRG is proud to have achieved the Carbon Saver Gold assist other children in a similar situation to Susanna.
Standard in January 2012 in recognition of the Groups Susanna had her operation in Missouri in late October sustained reductions in energy.
Through on-going investment 2012 and is recovering well.
She took her first steps in energy efficient equipment, energy control systems unaided just one day after surgery.
and the active involvement of our staff we aim to reduce Each year we also support BBC Children in Need and in energy consumption by 2.5% a year for five years to further 2012 we raised 55,000 following fundraising activity over reduce carbon dioxide emissions and minimise our impact Halloween, the October half term and the evening of the on the environment.
We recognise that lasting change in energy consumption by In addition to the large fundraising drives above there any the Group requires changes in behaviour for our whole team.
many other charities that have benefitted from our support The provision of accurate and timely management information this year.
We regularly host charity breakfasts whereby we covering energy consumption is an essential tool supporting offer free breakfasts in return for a donation to local the change.
A web-based energy-information portal to charities.
Coast to Coast teamed up with the Teenage provide consumption data to restaurants and our operators Cancer Trust in 2012 raising money at various events has been developed and implemented in association with our during the year.
energy consultants which allows us to target more inefficient sites and challenge our teams through league tables to Junior Sports Team Sponsorship improve their energy efficiency.
Frankie & Bennys have a long history of sponsoring local junior sports.
During 2012, we have sponsored a total of We continue to promote our energy saving campaign to all 196 junior teams across the country playing football, rugby, restaurants.
Through the timely supply of accurate information, hockey, swimming, gymnastics, netball and much more.
area managers and operational managers have access to Not only do we provide kits for the teams, but we also take monthly reporting designed around their needs to enable an active role during the season and invite them to enjoy them to monitor and improve consumption.
By February 2013 end of season celebration dinners at Frankie & Bennys.
we had installed automated meter readers to supplement half-hourly monitoring of electricity supplies at over 99% of Schools visit programme our eligible restaurants in Frankie & Bennys, Chiquito and The Frankie & Bennys schools visit programme has been in Garfunkels, and 97% of available sites for gas supplies.
place for more than four years now and continues to grow in popularity with over 1,200 visits taking place in 2012, 200 New build sites now include heat recovery systems, energy more than in 2011.
Schoolchildren, accompanied by their saving lighting and low energy hand dryers.
We continue teachers, are given the opportunity to visit our restaurants to to review the energy performance of all sites with a view bring curriculum based subjects such as maths, science and to including energy and nancially efficient equipment in food hygiene to life.
The children also get to make their own new restaurants.
pizzas by choosing their toppings.
Whilst we leave the cooking to the chefs, school children are given an educational activity book to complete a pack that has been designed by educational experts.
In 2012 alone, 30,000 children enjoyed the programme up and down the country and continued expansion of the scheme is expected in 2013.
26 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Reducing the resources we use and the waste we generate is also a key objective for the Group.
In 2012: We recycled over 830,000 litres of used cooking oil an increase of around 80,000 litres from 2011 : waste oil is re-used at a bio-diesel production facility: We diverted over 7,000 tons of waste from landll following the further implementation of mixed recycling, an increase of over 60% on the prior year: and Food recycling trials have proven successful and will be implemented across the estate at sites where we control the collection.
We are now able to recycle food, glass, oil and also have facilities for mixed recycling.
Our shareholders The Group has had a clear strategy since 2001 to deliver value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, where we can generate sustainable and growing cash ows and which offer high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to focus investment in edge and out of town leisure locations, rural and semi-rural pubs and our Concessions business, which operates principally on airports.
The Group has maintained a progressive dividend policy and has a strong track record of growing profits and dividends for shareholders.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations and Group Finance Directors report provide further detail on the Groups strategy, performance during 2012 and prospects for the Group.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 27
