56 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report sustainability Our Healthcare plants also have sites that demonstrate best practice with Le Trport, France, and Berlin, Ohio, having recycling rates above 90%.
zero waste to landfill key measures and targets Following a five year programme to separate and minimise In 2013, we aim to establish consistent measures of waste to waste streams, identify more recyclable alternatives for some landfillin all our sites with the objective of minimising waste and materials and working with local companies to ensure beneficial identifying alternatives for the various material streams.
Our long recycling solutions are found for each waste stream, our can term objective is achieving zero waste to landfill in all of our plants.
end making plant in Valparaiso, Indiana, achieved its goal of zero waste to landfill in 2012.
It has steadily reduced the commitment number of tonnes to landfill from 102t in 2008 to 22t in 2011 we will improve the environmental performance and finally zero in mid 2012.
Zero waste has a substantial positive impact on the environment and reduces costs.
ofoursites All our sites have robust environmental management systems EMS inplace, and we encourage external verification where appropriate.
Even when external verification is not sought, we adopt EMS, which are internally verified, that include key elements of ISO 14001.
In 2012, commitment 100% of our plants 2011: 100% were certified against ISO 14001 we will reduce our waste to landfill orequivalent.
All of our plants actively segregate waste to ensure that what can We target zero significant uncontrolled or abnormal releases into the be recycled is recycled.
All scrap metal from the can making environment and Rexam again achieved this target in 2012. process is collected and sent back to our suppliers for reprocessing back into new coils.
We work constantly both on reducing internal Our Healthcare business in 2012 focused on office waste.
The process waste for example, oils, chemicals and raw materials and installation of the latest multifunctional machines to scan, print and on reducing external process waste such as primary, secondary copy to replace smaller, inefficient units reduced both paper and tertiary packaging.
Waste to landfill is not sustainable in the consumption and ink cartridges.
long term and is becoming an increasingly expensive option.
key measures We have made it a priority for plants to measure and reduce their We measure our sites environmental performance through the number waste to landfill but we do not yet have a consistent measure across of uncontrolled or abnormal releases and the number of plants our whole business.
Our target is to have zero uncontrolled or abnormal releases and to have 100% of our plants Best practice is already available, and our can end plant in ISO 14001 certified or equivalent.
Valparaiso, Indiana, has achieved the goal of zero waste to landfill 2012, following a five year programme to separate and minimise waste streams.
people In our beverage can making plants, the single largest component of our waste to landfill is a side product from the manufacturing process, filter cake.
Since reopening in 2010, our Pouso Alegre The Rexam values of continuous improvement, recognition, teamwork and trust were developed from employee feedback many plant in Brazil has never sent any waste to landfill with over 395 years ago, and still underpin our approach and the expectations of tonnes of various wastes filter cake, varnish residues, oily residues being sent for reprocessing.
Their filter cake is used in the local our employees today.
Our vision is to be the best global consumer cement works which not only avoids landfill but enables a Thermal packaging company and we realise that this can only be achieved with committed, engaged and well supported employees.
Destruction Certificate to be generated, avoiding future environmental liabilities.
Other recyclable materials including We are committed to ensuring our employees work in a safe, fair plastic containers, steel debris and cardboard were sold, and supportive environment.
We also encourage our people to be generating a small income.
active members of both their local communities and global teams.
Furthermore, we believe investing in talented people: and providing the resources, environment and opportunity for them todevelop their skills and capabilities is integral to our vision.
57 commitment Our new environmental health and safety audit continued its roll out in 2012 and 47 audits were completed.
Against their baseline we will make sure our people work in a safe and audit, all of the sites improved their scoring moving one or, in some healthyenvironment cases, two levels higher on the achievement scale.
Rexam is dedicated to implementing world class environmental, In 2012, as in 2011, we had no significant property loss incidents.
health and safety processes and culture across the Company.
According to the US Center for Disease Control more than 75% of Tragically, in mid July, a fatality occurred involving a hoist at our employers healthcare costs and productivity losses are related to Excelsior Springs plant, part of our recently disposed Personal employee lifestyle choices.
We support employees wellbeing by Care business.
We have fully engaged with US Occupational offering employee wellness programmes.
This not only Safety and Health Administration and specialist expertise to review demonstrates care for our employees but makes good business our use of hoists and cranes throughout our US business.
We run programmes in 95% of our sites based on taking actions to minimise exposure to similar risks.
three simple steps to improve overall health: eat more healthily, be Despite this fatality, our Lost Time Accident Rate LTAR improved active and where applicable stop smoking.
In excess of 75% of our sites 55 plants key measures and targets achieved no lost time accidents in 2012.
Also 47% of sites 34 The key quantitative measures for this commitment are the Group plants achieved zero lost time cases or medical cases in 2012.
This LTAR and the percentage of sites offering some form of employee is a 25% improvement on our 2011 performance.
In November wellness programme eg subsidised gym memberships, health and December 2012 all sites achieved zero lost time accidents.
We aim for an LTAR of zero, with at In 2012 Rexam launched its Global Operational Risk Management least a 10% reduction per annum, and we aim to have 90% of our Policy covering fire safety and property protection, site and travel sites offering employee wellness programmes by the end of 2013. security, business continuity management and environmental long term 2013 health and safety.
We developed a five point charter around targets targets 2012 2011 2010 operational risk management performance which has been rolled LTAR zero 0.17 0.19 0.34 0.40 out across all of our operations worldwide.
Sites offering an We record all incidents relating to health and safety.
Metrics such employee wellness as LTAR, RIR Rexam Incident Rate and DART Days Away programme % 100 100 95 75 n a Restricted Time allow us to investigate and share best practice across the Group.
With the RIR metric we measure the combined performance across both lost time and medical cases at our operations.
In 2012 for RIR we achieved a 25% improvement on our 2011 performance.
training for safety and success Beverage Can South America developed its own training programme for operators on the can and end making lines.
Each course is tailored to a specific process stage and generally led by plant people.
At the end, participants are tested and if they do not achieve the pass mark they have to repeat the programme.
It has helped raise operator skills, reduce accidents, standardise training across the region and lower training costs.
The successful method has been adopted by our European can operation to ensure effective start ups at the new plants in India and Finland and will be introduced to other regions for new and existing employees.
Meanwhile steps are being taken to developnew administrative training courses based on the same inhouse approach.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 58 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report sustainability commitment to comprehensive residential courses which focus on specific skill building, our course offering is diverse.
In 2012, around 190 we will continue to build a winning organisation employees participated in classroom courses and 508 learners Our employees are crucial to the delivery of Rexams goals.
logged into CrossKnowledge the online option and completed Weare nurturing a sense of One Rexam so as to enable the 820 courses.
We also had over 85 registrations to our Improve achievement of all aspects of our Group strategy.
It is about the your English online programme.
way we work together across the businesses and functions as one team, and our shared Rexam Way values and culture.
Since 2011, we have run a company wide Blue Chip recognition scheme.
This on the spot scheme recognises individuals who In March 2012, we conducted our second global employee survey demonstrate our values and or leadership practices.
We awarded to measure levels of engagement across the Group, and to identify over 280 employees a Blue Chip in 2012. opportunities for improvement.
We were pleased that almost nine out of ten employees provided feedback.
Our overall engagement Every year since 1998 we have run The Rexam European Forum score rose to 69% 2010: 62% with significant improvements in REF, a joint employee representative and management body Leadership, Quality and Continuous Improvement.
The detailed created for the exchange of information and dialogue on issues nature of the feedback enabled us to develop specific action plans which may impact Rexams employees within the European and engagement priorities for sites and teams.
We shared the Economic Area.
In 2012, the REF was held in London and included feedback with all plants and office locations across the business 19 representatives and one observer from 12 countries.
The who then established focus groups to develop action plans.
agenda included safety and sustainability as well as Rexams financial performance.
Rexam has a clear set of global leadership practices which are known under the acronym ULEAD: understand, listen, engage, Communication with employees is considered a key responsibility attract and deliver.
They explain what it takes to be a leader in for all managers, and employees are encouraged to participate Rexam and also what people can expect of our leaders.
All leaders and give their views on any aspect of the Groups business are evaluated, and senior managers rewarded, against including the annual and half year financial results and the thesepractices.
economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
A key element of building a winning organisation is to ensure our Rexam also has well established employee share schemes to people have the right development and training opportunities to promote share ownership.
advance their skills and careers.
Our various training and development programmes are co-ordinated and managed through the Rexam Business School.
From online language courses through Cairo shares the knowledge Two years ago our plant in Cairo received help from the rest of the European plant network to convert production from steel to aluminium.
In 2012 the Cairo employees supported the start of the new Indian aluminium can line and the new plant in Finland pictured here, under construction.
It is testimony to the level of our peoples expertise, enthusiasm for thejob and the training they have received.
59 key measures and targets In the UK, we participated in the STEM Programme which aims The key measures for this commitment are the Group employee towiden participation in Science, Technology, Engineering and engagement survey scores which will be conducted around Mathematics.
Engineers from our two plants in the UK visited local every18 months.
We aim to continuously improve these scores schools to raise awareness of these employment choices and help over time.
develop students creativity and problem solving skills.
2012 2010 BCSA operates a Good Days initiative where every time a plant reaches, on the same day, a set of KPIs related to production and Employee engagement index favourable safety, Rexam makes a R$500 150 donation to a charity of the score % 69 62 local employees choice.
In 2012, our plants achieved a total of Values and leadership practices 195 Good Days with donations totalling nearly 30,000.
BCSA favourable score % 61 53 also promotes campaigns to stimulate voluntary employee engagement in local communities.
In 2012, 400 books, 7,500 litres commitment of milk, 2,000 items of clothes and over 10,000kg of food was we will ensure our actions and interactions are guided donated and the food donation was matched by Rexam.
byfairness, respect, integrity and honesty We also pride ourselves on being an ambassador for recycling, To achieve our vision it is critical that our employees behave with dedicating a large amount of effort in promoting and encouraging integrity, fairness and honesty at all times.
it within our local communities.
In 2012, all of our North American beverage can operations were involved in the annual America We are committed to providing a work environment which is free Recycles competition.
Our Chicago head office won the industry ofdiscrimination and or harassment on any level, whether based contest for Rexam for a sixth year in a row collecting 1,270kg of on race, sex, disability or any other basis.
used cans and raised more than US$3,200 for charity.
In Europe, Rexam has equal opportunity policies ranging from selection and our BCE&A Community Can Challenge was rolled out to 15 recruitment to training and development to meet the needs of its plants 2011: 12 plants across nine European countries as well as operations around the world.
Disabled people are given full Turkey and Russia.
Over a 10 week period, employees helped consideration for employment and subsequent training including, promote recycling and collected around 300,000 cans to keep if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have 5tonnes of metal in the recycling loop and saving 44 tonnes of become disabled, career development and promotion on the basis CO.
They also raised over 15,000 for local charities.
In Brazil, 2 of their aptitudes and abilities.
through Abralatas, we sponsored and supported can collection activities during the Carnival season.
Our Raise Your Concern RYC programme offers the opportunity for employees to report anonymously any behaviour or activity key measures and targets they believe is in contravention of Rexams Code of Conduct CoC We monitor the involvement of our sites in community programmes: and or of any of our policies.
See page 75 for more information our target is that each and every site participates in some sort of onCoC and RYC.
activity that makes them constructive members of the community.
key measures and targets target 2012 2011 The key measures for this commitment are the percentage Sites with community prog % 100 83 n a ofsuccessfully completed CoC training modules and the responserate to concerns raised via RYC.
cash donations and community activities 2013 target 2012 We increased total charitable cash donations by the Group in 2012 to 724,000 2011: 458,000.
CoC training completed % 100 100 2012 2011 2010 RYC response within 5 days % 85 65 UK 51,000 55,000 52,000 commitment Rest of world excl UK 673,000 403,000 390,000 we will encourage all teams to be constructive members Rexams total charitable cash donations and community activities of our local communities including in kind community and charitable support in the form of Our plants and sites work closely with a wide range of local time, facilities and products during 2012 amounted to some charities and groups to make a positive impact.
Following the Hurricane Sandy disaster during late October 2012, The Group did not make any EU political donations during the our US sites organised an online relief effort with the business yearand does not intend to do so in the future in respect of which matching employee donations.
shareholder authority is required, or for which disclosure is required under the Companies Act 2006. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 60 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report customer expectations Deep and lasting relationships are critical to creating a sustainable business and delivering consistent improvement in results.
61 directors report governance 62 directors and officers We introduce our board and explain their 64 corporate governance commitment to maintaining high standards 77 remuneration report of corporate governance in a constantly 91 other disclosures evolving regulatory and governance environment.
We give the framework for our remuneration policy and show how we implement this policy.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
