co. uk Corporate social responsibility Our people {viii iiLivii Our people are our most highly valued asset, they are We did this by holding employee seminars and offering the critical to our success and our growth.
We are proud of our opportunity for one to one briengs with external benets people and the mixture of talent and experience that they advisers.
We also offer private healthcare complemented by a bring.
We depend on their skills and commitment to achieve cash back scheme.
In November 2012, the Companys fourth our objectives.
- i iV V i`] }iiiLiiw Our cultural style is open and honest.
We invest in from the success of the Group over the last three years.
More ensuring that all employees understand Rightmoves core than half of our employees currently participate in the values and goals.
We achieve this through a combination of - i i a rigorous selection process, including technical skills testing, In March 2012, we moved to new ofces in Milton Keynes, an off-site residential course to ensure all Rightmovers providing our employees with a workplace environment which understand our core values, ongoing coaching and is spacious, inspiring and fun.
We also refurbished our mentoring, and cross-functional team building events London premises as part of our continued investment in involving all employees.
We encourage employee involvement employee wellbeing.
and place emphasis on keeping employees informed of the Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of Groups activities via bi-monthly staff forums and business opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and performance updates with senior management and quarterly procedures.
We take a proactive approach throughout our sales conferences.
recruitment and selection process to ensure that we attract, We continue to offer our Rightmover-led training academy, hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce and this is designed to provide a structured means for employees to kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or potential expand and diversify their skills and knowledge and explore employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their new ways of working with one another.
Given the specialised race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, religion or technical nature of the work we do and the services we similar belief, connections with a national minority, sexual provide, we also support ongoing external professional orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital status, development where appropriate.
member or membership of a trade union, disability, or any During 2012, we introduced an employee recognition other classication as prescribed by law.
scheme, which is voted on by other employees and is an We offer exible working arrangements, supporting opportunity to nominate colleagues who have shown part-time working and reduced hours to allow our employees outstanding performance or are high achievers.
Up to eight L Vii `v Vi ] awards are presented every two months at our bi-monthly of our employees worked exible hours.
We offer employees a range of additional benets, which Charitable activity have proved to be a useful retention tool.
Rightmovers are We continue to encourage all our employees to devote time made aware of these benets through our induction process and fundraising efforts to charitable causes of particular and intranet.
In 2012 we placed particular emphasis on importance to them as individuals.
During 2012 many of communicating the importance of saving for retirement and our staff have been active in raising money or supporting promoting the stakeholder pension plan we established in fundraising activities across a wide range of charities for 2008 as well as the option to save by salary exchange.
which Rightmove matched the donations raised.
We have also set up charitable giving through the Charities Trust, a scheme that allows our employees to donate directly from their monthly salary to any charity or recognised good cause registered within the UK.
This provides a tax efficient means of giving.
18 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 Environment Keynes, we removed all waste bins from desks, which Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact encourages and increases the amount of recycling we do.
and we are conscious of playing our part in tackling climate We subsequently introduced this into the London ofce.
V }i-Vii i vwViL i`] As an operator of an online property portal, the main the direct environmental impact is relatively low.
Indeed environmental impact is the power usage of our data centres.
Rightmoves business reduces the overall environmental Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware with the harm associated with a variety of aspects of the whole best computational performance which uses the least home hunting process.
Traditional ways of nding a home tend to involve large We encourage our employees to use alternatives to car amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form of travel, by promoting the use of public transport in particular newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to when travelling between our two ofce locations and by applicants through the post or leaet drops by agents.
encouraging participation in our Cycle to Work scheme.
Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the As an online business, our culture emphasises a paperless environmental damage that goes with them.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do care to design the layout of property particulars to reduce the not stop just with how we operate internally we encourage total number of pages that need to be printed out in those all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of Vi`v ii i`Vii all our emails.
We also continue to focus on streamlining amount of time home hunters waste in visiting properties processes and replacing paper-based services with online that rapidly turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion iVi `VV ]iiiLi-i of viewings involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted introduced in recent years include e-communications to viewings has an environmental benefit.
Rightmove has shareholders, online customer membership forms and worked hard to increase the number and size of photographs product documentation and email invoicing.
of each property and has introduced more comprehensive map searches and aerial photographs which help home Health and safety hunters to identify the specic location of a property.
The Group considers the effective management of health and The higher the quality of the information presented about safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
During properties, the less carbon footprint is generated by 2012, we continued our re safety, first aid and work place prospective buyers making wasted journeys.
The Groups ongoing policy on health and The rightmove.
co. uk website includes functionality for safety is to provide adequate control of the health and safety Vi` i} iv Vi iwV i risks arising from work activities, through further consultation which allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy with, and training of, employees, the provision and efficiency of a property they are considering buying and to maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and identify opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once use of all substances and the prevention of accidents and they have purchased the property.
As an internet-based Group with most staff employed in two ofce locations, we believe our own environmental footprint is small.
We encourage our staff to take steps to address our environmental responsibilities.
For instance, we continue to operate recycling schemes which were established in consultation with local authorities and recycling partners and when we moved to our new ofce in Milton 19
