Sustainable development We endeavour to integrate sustainable development into everything Materiality we do.
This commitment underpins our licence to operate, and positions We use a materiality assessment to focus our report on our most us as the developer of choice for the next generation of mining and significant sustainable development issues.
Our process was developed in line with the Global Reporting Our approach to sustainable development and business integrity are, Initiative GRI guidance on materiality and completeness webelieve, competitive advantages for Rio Tinto.
It involves identification and prioritisation of access to high-quality resources and business development opportunities.
issues affecting our business and its stakeholders over the next three In addition, they allow us to attract talented people, engage with years considering internal and external perspectives.
communities, reduce environmental impacts and decrease operating Performance data for a selection of our most material sustainable costs.
This enables us to give more confidence, and deliver higher development issues are subject to external assurance.
We also discuss returns, to our shareholders.
financial performance, safety and greenhouse gas emissions in the We have a structured sustainable development framework that enables product group section of this report.
us to deliver industry-leading performance, and effectively manage risks.
Omission of issues from our report does not mean they are not managed Our approach begins with The way we work our global code of business by the Group.
Please see our website for additional information.
This is supported by our corporate policies, strategies and standards that lay down the minimum acceptable requirements for 2012 material topics covered in this report behaviour or operating conditions.
Our policies are also supported by Social Environment Economic Governance management systems to make sure they are implemented appropriately across the Group.
Safety Biodiversity Economic Human rights Key achievements contributions Health Greenhouse gas Integrity and r We focused on strengthening the quality of our risk management, emissions Non-managed compliance inparticular around high-consequence, low-probability events.
Communities operations and Land r We strengthened our malaria management framework.
People JVs Water r We completed important study and policy development work around emerging social and environmental issues, in particular engagement with Indigenous peoples, human rights and biodiversity.
Performance data r We strengthened our Integrity and Compliance programme.
Our sustainable development performance data are reported for calendar r We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones years and, unless stated otherwise, represent 100 per cent of the parameters at each managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may have Sustainability Indexes.
Key priorities Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes r Continue to reduce incident and injury illness rates toward our detect material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability goalofzero harm, including eliminating workplace fatalities.
r Improve leadership engagement around safety risks.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the r Continue to improve our health management processes in reporting period are included.
Divested operations are included in data developingcountries, particularly around infectious diseases.
collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
Improveour understanding of fitness for work and wellness risks withinourworkforce.
We report in line with the GRI G3 guidelines at Application level A and have implemented the International Council on Mining and Metals r Continue to improve our social performance and to incorporate emerging issues into our approach.
ICMM sustainable development framework www.
r Develop an improved framework for analysing and communicating Further information on our data definitions, our GRI checked ourprogrammes around water and other environmental risks.
report and our alignment with the ICMM sustainable development r Continue to strengthen our approach to sustainable development by principles and supporting position statements can be found on: riotinto.
com  ensuring we have fit-for-purpose systems and procedures to manage our key material risks and improve performance.
14 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance Targets Progress to date Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of workplace fatalities.
Progress is measured through our all injury frequency rate AIFR We maintained our all injury frequency rate of 0.67. per 200,000 hours worked.
30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness 76 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013. compared with 2008.
Ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees per 10,000 employees 3.2 per cent decrease in the rate of employees potentially exposed to exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels between an average eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels compared a 2008 and 2013. with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity between 5.1 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2008 and 2013.
We are also targeting a further four per cent reduction by compared with 2008.
2015, to deliver an overall ten per cent reduction.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater use per tonne of product 3.6 per cent decrease in our freshwater use per tonne of product between 2008 and 2013. compared with 2008.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: r Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by 2015. r Women represented 15 per cent of our senior management in2012.
r Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
r Women represented 30 per cent of our 2012 graduate intake.
r 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from regions r 24 per cent of our 2012 graduate intake were nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
where we are developing new businesses.
All operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly reported social 70 per cent of our operations have locally appropriate publicly performance indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the reported social performance indicators in place.
economic development of the communities and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013. a The noise target measures the reduction in hazardous noise levels 85 decibels averaged over eight hours within the workplace.
Where noise levels remain above the target level, hearing protection is mandatory.
A number of targets run until 2013.
As part of our commitment to continuous improvement and transparent reporting, we look at each new target cycle as an opportunity to incorporate insights from the current target period.
As we develop our post-2013 targets, we will incorporate these insights to define targets that are aligned with local imperatives, and are representative of the Groups diversity and geographic reach.
We intend to finalise Group targets in 2013, and will report on them in the Sustainable development section of the 2013 Annual report.
Performance data 2008-2012 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Social All injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.67 0.67 0.69 0.81 0.94 New cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees 13 12 20 39 48 Employees potentially exposed to an average 8 hour noise dose of more than 85dB A per 10,000 employees 3,410 3,602 3,605 3,626 3,582 a Employees number 71,000 68,000 77,000 102,000 106,000 Environment Greenhouse gas emissions intensity indexed relative to 2008 94.9 95.9 96.1 92.6 100.0 Total energy use petajoules 502 516 513 496 556 Freshwater used billion litres 447 465 457 433 468 b Land footprint disturbed square kilometres 3,533 3,485 3,453 3,410 1,373 Land footprint rehabilitated square kilometres 446 422 420 402 471 Direct economic contribution a c Value add US$ million 26,195 38,193 33,812 21,363 28,412 a Payments to suppliers US$ million 30,271 28,444 27,486 23,481 29,653 Community contributions US$ million 292 294 166 119 140 Numbers amended from those originally published to ensure comparability over time.
Amendments due to changes in measurement and calculation methodologies or immaterial updates to data.
a These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
b Our land disturbance footprint increased in 2009, primarily because the land utilised for Rio Tinto Alcans hydroelectric dams was reported for the first time in terms of Rio Tintos reporting definitions.
c Value add is the sum of labour, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
com 15 Sustainable development continued Health Social Protecting, promoting and enhancing the health and wellbeing of our Safety people is as vital as protecting their safety.
Our goal is no new cases We are committed to achieving our goal of zero harm.
This is supported ofoccupational illness.
We have occupational health performance by our management system which provides the framework for standards, coupled with our health and wellbeing strategy, to support incorporating hazard identification, risk assessment and risk management thisgoal.
We implement our standards through education, training, into all aspects of the operations.
Safe operations that protect our people andthe incorporation of fit-for-purpose systems and procedures.
are a priority and we work systematically to mitigate risks that are critical to operating safely.
Malaria remains a significant problem in many developing countries, primarily in Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Asia.
It is a significant Regrettably, two people lost their lives due to safety incidents while health risk for employees based in affected regions and for those working at Rio Tinto managed operations in 2012.
The events were a rail seconded or travelling to operations located in endemic areas.
incident at Rio Tinto Alcan Roberval-Saguenay in Canada and an incident Regrettably, one person lost their life to malaria while on international during maintenance work on a crusher at Palabora in South Africa.
We assignment at QIT Madagascar Minerals in 2012.
We thoroughly provided support and counselling to the families and colleagues affected investigated this incident and implemented a Malaria Management by these events.
We conducted in-depth investigations of the causes of Framework and a Malaria Hotline which is available to all employees these incidents and ensured that the conclusions were communicated 24 hours per day seven days per week.
The hotline is intended to provide across the Group.
We are determined to learn from all incidents to advice and support to identify the signs and symptoms of malaria as well prevent similar events from recurring in the future.
as general preventative initiatives or measures.
We measure progress toward our goal of zero harm through the all injury We are targeting a 30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of frequency rate AIFR, which includes data for employees and contractors.
occupational illness per 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013.
Over the last five years we have We are on track to meet this target by 2013.
In 2012, we achieved a reduced our AIFR by 29 per cent.
76 per cent improvement in performance compared with 2008, with The Group-wide safety risk management programme focuses equally significant decreases in the number of reported cases of noise induced on personal and process safety, and material safety hazards.
The hearing loss 75 per cent, musculo-skeletal disorders 85 per cent identification of higher-consequence, lower-probability safety risks are andstress 63 per cent.
managed through targeted process safety management and the use of We are also targeting a ten per cent reduction in the number of TM a Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment SQRA process.
Risk reduction employees exposed to an average eight hour noise dose of more than TM resulting from the SQRA process, along with critical risk controls, is 85decibels between 2008 and 2013.
While progress has been made used as a Group-wide leading indicator for safety performance.
towards the target, there is a risk that it will not be achieved.
We We focus on building a sustainable safety culture at our operations, based recognise that further reductions in noise exposures for our employees around strong leadership and workforce engagement.
We recognise that are challenging but we remain committed to continuing to improve our a slightly different approach is needed at projects where activity and thus overall health performance.
In 2012, the rate of employees potentially risk levels change rapidly.
We have benchmarked our approach externally, exposed decreased by 3.2 per cent compared with 2008. and we are piloting new methodologies that focus particularly on As part of our continuous improvement work we have adapted the improving contractor alignment to our approach, and the quality of TM SQRA process used within safety to improve the identification and frontline leadership.
management of material health risks.
This programme now incorporates occupational hygiene monitoring results within the process to provide a clearer picture of the critical risk, and improves prioritisation.
We identify material health risks, and associated critical controls, for which critical control monitoring plans are developed.
The monitoring of plans establishes an approach that will be applied for monitoring the ongoing performance of critical controls.
Across our operations, we continue to roll out the software package Medgate, for managing occupational industrial hygiene and medical surveillance data, to aid consistency of data quality, management and analysis.
16 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance We employ on the basis of job requirements and adhere to the laws Communities and regional development pertaining to non-discrimination on grounds of age, ethnic or social We seek to understand the social, environmental and economic implications of our activities on host communities so we can optimise origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics, religion or disability.
We do notemploy forced, bonded or child labour.
We recognise the right of benefits and reduce negative impacts, both for local communities and allemployees to choose to belong to a union and seek to bargain forregional and national economies.
We employ people with disabilities and make every Our Communities and Social Performance work is guided by The way we reasonable effort to offer suitable alternative employment and retraining work.
Our Communities policy and standard provide the framework for toemployees who become disabled and can no longer perform their the work, while guidance notes describe specific requirements in areas regular duties.
such as consultation and engagement, social impact assessment, It is important to represent the diversity of our surrounding communities complaints, disputes and grievance, community agreements, resettlement, economic displacement and compensation.
We work to in our workforce by employing people who meet job requirements.
Our employees diversity of skills, ideas and experiences helps to ensure a common Communities and Social Performance approach of: that we respond innovatively and sensitively to the challenges faced 1 building a communities knowledge base and using social impact across the Group.
We encourage diversity and collaboration within and assessments to identify potential positive and negative impacts of across our operations, cultures and countries to build cohesiveness and our operations: raise performance.
2 engaging with communities, governments and other contributing We are focused on increasing the representation of women and people agencies: and from nationalities and local groups which are under-represented in our 3 jointly delivering programmes that reflect the priorities of workforce.
In 2012, women represented 30 per cent of our graduate local communities.
intake, 15 per cent of our senior management, and 18 per cent of our total workforce.
Twenty four per cent of our graduate intake in 2012 were We accept that we cannot meet everybodys concerns and expectations, nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
Further but wherever we operate we seek to do so with broad-based community support.
information on diversity and inclusion can be found on page 78 in the Corporate governance section.
In addition to direct economic contributions through salaries, wages, Our local employment commitments are often managed through directly taxes, royalties and local service and supply, during 2012, our businesses negotiated community benefit agreements.
Throughout 2012, we contributed to just under 2,800 socio-economic programmes covering a wide range of activities such as health, education, business development, remained the largest private sector employer of Indigenous Australians atapproximately seven per cent of our Australian workforce.
environmental protection, housing and agricultural development.
In 2012, we spent US$292 million on these community contribution programmes.
Our Group-wide performance, talent and remuneration systems support consistent and transparent assessment of people across Rio Tinto, drive Our communities target, adopted in 2009, requires all operations to have locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social performance indicators that a performance-focused culture through clear linkages between performance and reward, and enable employees to articulate their demonstrate a positive contribution to the economic development of the career aspirations.
communities and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013.
Good progress has been made against this We offer our employees a rounded total rewards package, the principles challenging target: 70 per cent of operations had the requisite indicators of which are consistent across the Group, designed to be competitive, in place at year end.
We will seek to complete this work in 2013, although incompliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and appropriately more work is likely to be needed in subsequent years to improve the balanced in favour of variable pay linked to performance.
Packages indicators in more complex operating environments.
typically consist of salary, benefits, short and, where appropriate, long-term incentive awards.
They also provide the opportunity for People many of our people to acquire a stake in the Company through share Our People strategy, together with our employee commitment, forms ownership plans.
theframework that guides how we attract, develop, engage and retain talented people, while ensuring alignment with our business strategy.
In 2012, we continued to roll out the Rio Tinto College: developing people Our core values of accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity are for growth with the addition of new Academies in the disciplines of expressed through the principles and standards of conduct set out in health, safety, environment and communities, human resources, and The way we work.
In line with our Employment policy, we seek safe stakeholder engagement.
This is a virtual learning environment available andeffective working relationships at all levels within the Group.
The College and Academies have partnered with leading learning organisations, such as Duke University in the US and the London In 2012, we employed 71,000 people, including the Groups Business School, to find and deliver best-in-class programmes and proportionately consolidated operations and equity accounted units.
resources such as e-learning, videos, book abstracts, white papers, Ofthese, approximately 29,000 were located in Australasia, 19,000 in and coaching.
North America, 9,000 in Europe, and 9,000 in Africa.
See page 221 for abreakdown of employees by business unit.
Approximately 980,000 attendances were recorded for training in leadership, technical and operational skills, and health, safety, and As a result of global economic uncertainty, challenging short-term environment courses in 2012. economic conditions and rapid increases in the cost of support and services, we have started work to streamline the service and support We use a number of communication tools to keep our employees activities of the Group, within both the product groups and Group informed of Group updates, news and announcements.
This is being conducted with careful monitoring for compliance conduct and act upon formal surveys that give our employees the with legal requirements and non-discrimination, and by ensuring that we opportunity to provide feedback on their experiences of the business make every reasonable effort to redeploy people who are affected.
will ensure that our organisation is efficient and effective, and has the people to deliver shareholder value into the future.
com 17 Sustainable development continued Greenhouse gas emissions Environment Rio Tinto recognises the reality and scale of the challenges posed by Biodiversity increasing demand for reliable and secure forms of energy, coupled with We appreciate the importance of preserving biodiversity and the the need for urgent action to reduce global emissions of greenhouse challenge this presents to all land users.
Impacts on biodiversity make gases GHGs.
We believe global energy and climate challenges are best our projects sensitive for regulators, external stakeholders and employees.
met by companies, governments and society working together on a Our business success depends on our ability to manage these issues.
Until that is in place we recognise that it will be important goal is to have a net positive impact NPI on biodiversity.
This means for individual jurisdictions to take action.
minimising the impacts of our business and contributing to biodiversity conservation to ensure the regions in which we operate ultimately benefit As a capital-intensive business, changing our emissions profile and the from our presence.
transition to low-carbon assets and products is a long-term challenge.
Weare seeking a substantial decarbonisation of the business by 2050.
Our biodiversity assessment tools and methodologies are increasingly Following the creation of Pacific Aluminium, the majority of the energy recognised by external stakeholders as leading practice.
We continue used in Rio Tinto Alcans smelters is from low-carbon sources.
to work with leading conservation organisations, including BirdLife International www.
org, the International Union for Conservation We have reduced our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 5.1 per of Nature IUCN www.
org, Fauna & Flora International cent between 2008 and 2012.
Our total GHG emissions were 41 million www.
org, and the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent C0 -e in 2012, 2.2 million tonnes 2 www.
org to refine our tools and methodologies lower than in 2011. www.
The majority of Rio Tintos GHG emissions are generated as a result of Our Group-wide biodiversity values assessment protocol is used to assess energy use electricity, fuel and anodes and reductants during mining, the biodiversity values of Rio Tintos landholdings and surrounding areas milling and smelting activities at our sites.
We undertake assessments of the biodiversity We recognise that there are also significant GHG emissions associated atall our sites, and we focus on those sites with the highest biodiversity with the transportation, processing and use of our products.
This assessment is made based on attributes of the land such three most significant sources of indirect emissions associated with our asproximity to biodiversity-rich habitats, species of conservation products were: significance, additional site-specific context and the external conservation context.
These sites are required to develop and implement biodiversity r Approximately 5.4 million tonnes of COe associated with third-party 2 action plans.
transport of our products and raw materials.
r An estimated 141 million tonnes of COe associated with customers In 2012, Rio Tinto, in collaboration with the IUCN, published the first 2 using our coal in electricity generation and steel production.
complete NPI forecast for our operation in Madagascar.
The report provides a detailed methodology and results of the NPI accounting r Approximately 374 million tonnes of COe associated with customers 2 process.
Development of an NPI verification protocol was also progressed using our iron ore to produce steel these emissions are not in addition in collaboration with the IUCN.
The collaboration is creating a to the coal-use emissions above, as some customers use both our iron methodology that enables us to measure and demonstrate progress in ore and our coal to produce steel.
This protocol was piloted for the first time in 2012 at an We face costs associated with greenhouse gas emissions in Europe, operation in Western Australia.
Two further pilots are scheduled for 2013.
Australia, New Zealand, various US states and Canadian provinces.
In 2012, we continued to invest in the development and implementation As a result, over two thirds of emissions from our operations are covered of biodiversity offsets, in response to increasing requirements by by market-based carbon regulation.
18 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance Land Economic We face increasing community and government expectations around Economic contribution thequality of our land management and pressures from alternative land Our aim is to bring sustainable and net economic benefit to the regions uses.
We therefore require our sites to develop management plans to and countries in which we have a presence.
This approach helps us build promote an integrated and sustainable approach to land management.
a reputation as an organisation that facilitates economic growth in the places where we work.
We manage just over 51,000 square kilometres of land globally, excluding our exploration leases.
At the end of 2012 our activities had impacted Due to the scale and capital intensity of our mining and processing approximately eight per cent of this area.
activities, we are often a major employer and tax contributor to the local, state, and national jurisdictions in which we operate.
We use our expertise Consistent with leading practice, we aim to rehabilitate land as it comes to harness resources and create prosperity for our shareholders, out of use rather than waiting until all operations have ceased.
Twenty four per cent of our disturbed land excluding land disturbed for employees, communities, governments and business partners.
hydroelectricity dams had been rehabilitated at the end of 2012.
Globally, our direct economic contribution was US$56,466 million in 2012.
This includes: We seek to continuously improve our performance and in 2012 we identified improvement opportunities around better integration with r US$26,195 million in value add, made up of labour, payments to mine planning and knowledge-sharing between sites.
governments and returns to capital.
As a member of ICMM, we help to develop industry policies and practices r US$30,271 million as payments to suppliers.
on protected areas and long-term access to land.
We work with a number These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
of external organisations including the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew to foster strong working relationships with various research institutions to Non-managed operations and joint ventures access the necessary expertise to improve our rehabilitation performance.
Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and joint ventures that it does not manage, including the Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg Water copper-gold mine in Indonesia.
We actively engage with our partners Our approach to managing water promotes responsible social, around sustainable development through formal governance structures environmental and economic stewardship.
We have a framework for our and technical exchanges.
In this way we endeavour to ensure that the businesses to identify and address water-related risks, encourage long-term principles in the The way we work are respected at all times.
thinking about water use, and improve performance.
We focus on ways tominimise the amount of water we remove from the environment, reuse Escondida it whenever we can, and return it to the environment in ways that meet Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is managed by regulatory requirements and encourage beneficial use.
Our seats on the Owners Council allow us regular input on strategic and policy matters.
Each operation has its own set of water challenges.
Some are located in water-scarce environments: others need to manage surplus water from Grasberg storms or groundwater, or manage water quality issues.
A subsidiary of the mining company Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc. Freeport-McMoRan, PT Freeport Indonesia, owns and operates the In 2012, our freshwater withdrawal decreased by 1.6 per cent to Grasberg mine in Papua, Indonesia.
We are a participant in a joint venture 536 billion litres.
We are targeting a six per cent reduction in our interest attributable to the 1995 expansion of the mine, which entitles us freshwater use per tonne of product between 2008 and 2013.
Between to a 40 per cent share of production above specified levels until the end 2008 and 2012, our freshwater use per tonne of product has decreased of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production after 2021.
We have the ability by 3.6 per cent.
to engage and influence through our representation on the Operating, Businesses have improved water efficiency during the target period Technical & Sustainable Development Committees.
through specific programmes, such as improved water metering, and Regrettably, there were two industrial fatalities at the Grasberg operation improved methodologies for recovering water from tailings which is then in 2012: one underground and one at the surface.
The decrease in freshwater use per tonne of product also reflects higher production levels, and lower rainfall than in 2011.
The The operator of the Grasberg mine manages complex social, community Group freshwater use efficiency target is heavily influenced by local and environmental issues.
There have also been instances of violence in climatic conditions, which can result in higher or lower freshwater use areas near the mine, including a series of shooting incidents that resulted independent of efficiencies in core production processes.
We are developing in seven injuries and three fatalities in 2012. post-2013 water targets which focus on the improved management of Freeport-McMoRan has responded with prudent measures of enhanced water within different climatic and environmental settings.
security for both personnel and material transport to and from site.
We remain committed to sustainable water management.
As members BothRio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan support the Voluntary Principles ofICMM and the Minerals Council of Australia www.
au on Security and Human Rights and work together to ensure practice is wework to support the development of industry policies and practices.
Rio Tinto continues to monitor the situation closely.
The Grasberg mine employs controlled riverine tailings disposal, a process the World Bank does not consider as good industry practice, onthe basis that it is contrary to the International Finance Corporations 2007 Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for mining.
However, several independent expert reviews have concluded that riverine tailings disposal represents the best practicable management method at Grasberg because of the extremely rugged topography, high rainfall and significant seismic activity.
We continue to believe that this method is appropriate given these conditions.
com 19 Sustainable development continued Significant improvements have been made to limit the surface area To meet our Integrity and Compliance commitment we have disturbed by tailings disposal, enhance retention within the engineered strengthened the Rio Tinto Integrity and Compliance programme.
Core deposition area, minimise the geochemical risks posed by the tailings, tothe programme is The way we work and our integrity and compliance protect adjacent river systems and rehabilitate inactive tailings surfaces.
Our programme reflects the size and geographical spread of In addition, Freeport-McMoRan continues to evaluate alternative uses for the Group as well as the diverse activities of our businesses.
In 2012, we tailings, such as making cement to support local infrastructure projects.
introduced two new standards relating to anti-corruption and conflicts of interest.
We also updated our compliance training modules to make them Governance more relevant to the business.
Human rights Speak-OUT, the Groups confidential whistleblowing programme, offers Rio Tinto supports and respects human rights consistent with the United an avenue where employees can report anonymously if they so choose, Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
In 2012, we revised our subject to local law, any significant concerns about the business, or Human rights policy to bring it in line with our voluntary commitments behaviour of individuals.
This could include suspicion of violations of under the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises www.
org financial reporting, health, safety or environmental procedures or and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights business integrity issues in general.
We introduced improved features for the programme including a web The way we work, our global code of business conduct, supported by submission option, and a new case management tool to better manage ourHuman rights policy and relevant standards and guidance, provides cases and allow for improved analysis of case statistics and detailed the framework for our approach in this area.
This framework has its reporting.
In 2012, 651 Speak-OUT reports were received.
Twenty three foundations in human rights due diligence, carried out as part of our per cent of cases raised issues relating to business integrity, fifty seven corporate processes.
In implementing our policies, we are subject to per cent related to personnel issues, nine per cent related to safety and thelocal laws of the many countries in which we operate.
We build on sustainability, one per cent to data privacy, one per cent of cases were compliance with local laws and, where our policy and procedures are finance-related and the remaining nine per cent of cases raised more stringent, we operate to these standards.
Fifty three per cent of matters raised and closedthrough Speak-OUT during 2012 resulted in action including Our human rights approach is supported by an online human rights clarifications being taken in relation to the reported issue after it was training programme, which was refreshed in 2012.
We are introducing examined or fully investigated.
more tailored training for high risk sites and functions, building on work previously conducted with our partner, the Danish Institute for Human We continue to participate with Transparency International Rights DIHR www.
Working with the DIHR and others, www.
org, a global civil society organisation in the fight we published Why human rights matter, a resource guide for integrating against bribery and corruption.
We were one of the original corporate human rights into Communities and Social Performance work.
members of the steering committee which drafted Transparency Internationals Business Principles for Countering Bribery and continue to Training in our Human rights policy is required every two years for participate in that committee.
RioTinto is also a strong supporter of the general managers or above.
During 2011-2012, approximately 2,400 World Economic Forums Partnering Against Corruption Initiative PACI.
We also provide human rights training tosecurity personnel and have conducted security and human rights Rio Tinto is committed, in principle and practice, to transparency assessments at all critical risk sites.
consistent with good governance and commercial confidentiality.
We issue information in a timely way on the Groups operational, financial We support the DIHR as it develops its Human Rights and Business and sustainable development performance through a number of Country Portal, a free website helping businesses assess human rights channels.
We have supported the Extractive Industries Transparency country contexts.
org, to strengthen governance by improving We have committed voluntarily to the UN Global Compact transparency and accountability in the extractive sector, since the www.
org, participating in its Human Rights Working initiatives launch in 2002.
Group and to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights www.
org, actively contributing to their development.
Assurance Our Group Audit & Assurance function has accountability and We seek to operate in a manner consistent with the UN Declaration on responsibility for providing assurance to the Rio Tinto board that: the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and sovereign obligations.
r Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls are adequately designed We respect the land connection of Indigenous communities and seek and effective for their intended purpose: and that specific, mutually-beneficial agreements with affected communities in the development and performance of our operations.
We strive to achieve r these policies, standards and controls are consistently implemented byall Rio Tinto sites on a timely basis and as designed.
the free, prior and informed consent of Indigenous communities as defined in the 2012 International Finance Corporation Performance In addition, we engaged an independent external assurance organisation, Standard 7 and supporting guidance.
We respect the law of the countries  PwC, to provide the board of directors of inwhich we operate, hence we seek consent as defined in relevant Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited assurance on selected sustainable jurisdictions and ensure agreement-making processes are consistent development subject matter, as explained on the next page.
PwCs assurance statement satisfies the requirements of subject Integrity and compliance matters one to four of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst our online Maintaining a strong and ethical culture is fundamental to the way we GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject matter five work at Rio Tinto.
We are committed to conducting our business with of the ICMM procedure.
integrity, one of our core values, and believe our values and good ethical standards are key to executing our strategy.
20 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance Independent assurance report What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected subject matter for the year ended 31 December 2012 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together Rio Tinto, Responsibilities  What we did Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement on the weperformed.
selected subject matter within the Sustainable development section of the Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto management is responsible for the preparation and Selected subject matter presentation of the selected subject matter in accordance with the r Rio Tintos assertion that it has incorporated the requirements of the Reporting criteria.
10 sustainable development principles of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and the mandatory requirements set out in What our work involved ICMM Position Statements into its own policies, strategies and standards We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on r Rio Tintos assertions regarding the approach that it has adopted Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Assurance Engagements Other to identify and prioritise its material sustainable development risks than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
This Standard and opportunities requires that we comply with independence and ethical requirements and r Rio Tintos assertions regarding the existence and status of plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively.
implementation of systems and approaches used to manage Main procedures performed the following selected sustainable development risk areas: r Making enquiries of relevant management of Rio Tinto Safety r Evaluating the design and effectiveness of the key processes and Greenhouse gas emissions controls for managing and reporting the performance data within the Energy use selected subject matter, including reviewing and placing reliance upon Water the work performed by Rio Tinto Group Audit and Assurance in relation to the subject matter r The following Rio Tinto performance data related to the selected r Testing performance data, on a selective basis, substantively at both sustainable development risk areas: an operational and corporate level, which included visits to a selection All injury frequency rate of operations and projects from across Aluminium, Energy, Iron Ore, Number of fatalities Copper, Diamonds & Minerals and Technology & Innovation Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions r Undertaking analytical procedures over the performance data Greenhouse gas emissions intensity r Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and Total energy use documentation supporting assertions made in the selected subjectmatter Freshwater withdrawn Freshwater use per tonne of product percentage change from 2008 We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.
Reporting criteria The subject matter above has been assessed against the definitions and approaches which will be presented at www.
Liza Maimone  Partner Melbourne 6 March 2013 Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation their responsibilities by commissioning an Inherent limitations Restriction on use independent assurance report in connection Inherent limitations exist in all assurance This report has been prepared in accordance with the selected subject matter.
engagements due to the selective testing of with our engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto the information being examined.
Therefore inreporting its sustainable development Limited assurance fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and performance.
We do not accept or assume This engagement is aimed at obtaining not be detected.
Additionally, non-financial responsibility for the consequences of any limited assurance for our conclusions.
As a data may be subject to more inherent reliance on this report for any other purpose or limited assurance engagement is restricted limitations than financial data, given both its to any other person or organisation.
Any reliance primarily to enquiries and analytical nature and the methods used for determining, on this report by any third party is entirely at its procedures and the work is substantially less calculating and estimating such data.
detailed than that undertaken for a reasonable We consent to the inclusion of this report in the assurance engagement, the level of assurance Annual report to assist Rio Tintos members in is lower than would be obtained in a assessing whether the directors have discharged reasonable assurance engagement.
