Corporate responsibility report We have extensive programmes in place to develop and maintain safe working practices across the Group across the whole of our store network against our waste We work in an industry moving heavy and management compliance targets.
potentially dangerous equipment as well as The Group Risk Committee also facilitates the coordination of regularly coming into contact with hazardous the activities of Sunbelt and A-Plant so that best practice and materials.
How we keep our employees safe and new initiatives in one business can be shared with, and adopted by, the other.
limit any impact from those hazardous materials are of prime concern and are intrinsically linked Health and safety Because our business is focused on the movement and to the long-term sustainability of our business.
maintenance of large and heavy equipment, rigorous safety procedures are essential if we are to limit potential harm to Our employees are our most valuable asset and we work hard both our staff and our reputation.
Having a strong reputation for to ensure they have the right training and support throughout excellent health and safety is a significant competitive advantage their careers with us.
In addition we endeavour to make a positive for us.
In addition, changing legislation in this area and the more contribution to the communities in which we operate and to stringent requirements on everyone involved in the industry, are limit any negative impact we may have on the environment.
also driving our business growth.
This is because as health and How corporate responsibility is managed safety regulations become more onerous across the industry, Our Group environment, health and safety and risk management abiding by them is more difficult and expensive for both our processes are managed through our Group Risk Committee customers and also our competitors amongst the smaller rental which reports to the Group chief executive and the Audit companies.
As a result, it may make better economic sense Committee.
The Committee is chaired by an executive director for customers to outsource more of that health and safety of Ashtead Group plc.
Suzanne Wood will chair the Committee commitment to a specialist equipment rental provider such as following the retirement of Ian Robson in July 2012.
Other Ashtead and smaller rental companies may struggle to compete.
members of the Committee are: For these reasons health and safety procedures are therefore at the heart of everything we do.
the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk and safety teams: We have extensive programmes in place to develop and UK and US legal counsel: maintain safe working practices across the Group and remind the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants performance standards our employees of the need to be safe at all times.
We also offer internal operational audit teams: and assistance to our customers in fulfilling their own responsibilities to ensure the safety of their employees.
We have an ongoing the Sunbelt Board member to whom its legal counsel and programme of specialised customer health and safety briefings safety director report.
on using our equipment range, as well as regular general The Group Risk Committee provides the Audit Committee, and health and safety awareness-raising initiatives.
We also make a through them the Board, with a comprehensive annual report considerable annual investment in ensuring our rental equipment on its activities including new legislative requirements, details meets or exceeds the latest safety standards, as well as providing of areas identified in the year as requiring improvement, health and safety advice and materials along with each rental.
and the status of actions being taken to make the necessary ISO accreditation in the UK improvements.
Last years priorities included: ensuring a A-Plant has ISO 9001 the Quality Standard accreditation common understanding amongst our branch management and across all its operations as well as ISO 14001 Environmental truck drivers of the need to always comply with relevant vehicle management and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety safety and hours of work legislation: further enhancement management accreditations.
These certifications give confidence of our disaster recovery planning for our IT systems: and to the UKs largest customers who we find are most focused on a renewed focus on our washbays, recycling and oil water site safety that we have in place the appropriate policies, training separation systems to ensure appropriate waste management programmes, feedback and auditing and monitoring processes to and environmental protection across our branch network.
minimise our impact on the environment and ensure the safety of Substantial progress was made in the year on all three priorities our workforce.
They also aid us when our large customers come with hot standby back-up systems now in place at our disaster in and audit our operations for compliance with the standards recovery data centres in both the UK and US for all our significant they look for us to apply.
IT systems, and high percentage compliance rates achieved Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Corporate responsibility report How we track health and safety Ethics Each of our stores is required to display prominently a statement We have the highest ethical standards at Ashtead and our on our policies on health and safety and we maintain sizeable Group-wide ethics policy is communicated directly to Sunbelt internal health and safety teams to ensure that the correct and A-Plants employees through dedicated communication precautions are in place throughout our business.
In addition we have a Group entertainment and analyse any incidents which occur to enable us to identify policy which sets out expectations in this area.
Whistle-blowing recurrent issues and implement preventative improvements arrangements, in place in both the US and the UK, allow across our UK and US networks.
In recent years we have employees, in confidence, to raise concerns about any alleged allocated significant resources to improving the mechanisms improprieties they may encounter.
Our extensive training and in place for incident response and investigation.
induction programmes ensure our staff receive the appropriate training and briefing on relevant ethics-related policies.
On a day-to-day basis, health and safety is tracked across the business by the number of reported incidents that occur during Last year we completed Group-wide training in advance the course of our work.
The number of reportable accidents is of the new UK Bribery Act.
Elements of this training are also one of our Group-wide KPIs.
We are pleased to report that now incorporated in the induction training for relevant new in both the US and UK reported incidents continued to reduce employees and we have set up a programme of annual last year.
Over the last year, Sunbelt had 400 reported incidents refresher training to ensure continued awareness and relative to a workforce of 6,444 2011: 388 incidents relative to compliance.
We are pleased to report that to date, we a workforce of 5,348, excluding Empire which was acquired in believe the business to be fully compliant with the new Act.
January 2011 whilst the UK had 275 incidents relative to an Our people average workforce of 1,958 2011: 281 incidents relative to an At Ashtead our employees are a key component of our average workforce of 1,921.
For the purposes of tracking, the competitive advantage because of the high-quality service they term incident does not necessarily mean that an employee was provide to our customers.
We are very proud of our superior hurt or injured.
Rather it represents an event that we want to workforce and invest heavily in their training and development track and report for monitoring and learning purposes under as well as aiming to offer them superior reward and benefits.
our health and safety management policies.
Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have extensive programmes in place There are significant differences in how reportable accidents to ensure high standards of recruitment, training, levels of are defined in the US and UK due to differing legislation in the customer service and the appraisal, review and reward of our two countries.
Under the relevant definitions which generally employees.
A-Plants three-year apprenticeship scheme is one encompass more accidents in the US than in the UK, Sunbelt of the most successful in the industry and is always heavily had 170 OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration oversubscribed.
We also have a good record of retaining our recordable accidents 2011: 184 accidents which, relative to apprentices at the conclusion of the programme.
In the US total employee hours worked, gave a Total Incident Rate of Sunbelt works with the US military to provide opportunities 2.14 2011: 2.72.
In the UK, A-Plant had 39 RIDDOR reportable for quality veteran recruits looking to apply some of the skills incidents 2011: 40 which, relative to total employee hours they have learned to a civilian career and was recently voted worked, gave a RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.87 2011: 0.95.
In a top 50 military recruiter by CivilianJobs.
As the market order to compare accident rates between the US and UK, Sunbelt improves we expect recruitment to increase in line with also applied the RIDDOR definition to its accident population business requirements.
which gave a figure this year of 118 RIDDOR reportable accidents Reward and benefits in the US 2011: 115.
On a like-for-like basis Sunbelts RIDDOR We motivate and reward our people through a combination reportable 2011 12 accident rate of 0.74 2010 11: 0.85 was of competitive fixed pay and attractive incentive programmes.
slightly better than A-Plants rate of 0.87 2010 11: 0.95.
Our sales force is also incentivised through commission plans Health and safety training which are based on sales volume and a broad measure of return Our most comprehensive Group-wide training programmes on investment determined by reference to equipment type and relate to health and safety for the reasons outlined above.
We maintain flexibility in these incentive plans Regular employee education and awareness training is, in our to reflect changes in the economic environment.
We believe view, the most effective way of improving and sustaining safety this was an important element in retaining the confidence of standards across our businesses.
We seek continually to educate our workforce through the recession.
our employees and our customers about new and improved In addition to their core benefits, including pension and life methods of ensuring employees operate in a safe environment.
insurance arrangements, we have an employee assistance In recent years we have focused particularly on leadership helpline which offers free confidential support and advice to training and enhanced safety training at Sunbelt to reduce those in need.
Last year we conducted a major programme of training for our US drivers building on the successful driver training carried out in the UK the prior year.
The training focused on teaching drivers to drive both more safely and in the most carbon efficient way.
In the UK, all new drivers are required to attend a four-day training programme at our specialist training centre in Nottingham before they are allowed to drive any of our vehicles.
As well as subsequently receiving regular safety refresher training, all drivers are encouraged to complete the Carry & Deliver Goods or Driving a Goods Vehicle NVQ National Vocational Qualification.
28 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Leading the industry in making drivers safe when working at height Following the successful launch last financial year of our proprietary Vehicle Fall Protection system, in August 2011 we launched the new 26T, a specially designed vehicle which is equipped with a hydraulic walkway operated at the touch of a button rather than having to be manually constructed as before.
The vehicle offers drivers maximum protection when loading and unloading plant equipment and is designed to prevent falls from height as well as providing other additional safety features, such as improved directional alarms and on-screen distance markers.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29 Corporate responsibility report Career development and training The welfare and job satisfaction of our people is enormously Health and wellness in the US important and our career development programmes are As part of our ongoing efforts to keep our employees designed to enable them to progress.
Significant numbers of healthy, last year Sunbelt set up a special health and our staff remain with us for most of their careers, something wellness campaign for its employees.
This campaign which is increasingly uncommon.
Several of our most senior covers a variety of initiatives such as education sessions staff started out at entry level within our stores and their on dietary information, heart health and exercise tips, continuity of employment is testament to our focus on healthy recipes, team activities, and news briefings on employee development.
In March, a team of over 60 Sunbelt runners participated in a 5km and half marathon We continue to take action consistently through the year event.
In the past year, Sunbelt has also worked with third to maintain and develop arrangements aimed at involving party specialists to routinely contact high-risk medical employees in the Groups affairs.
For example, regular meetings candidates in a successful preventative effort to lower are held at stores to discuss performance and enable employees health insurance costs.
to input into ways of improving performance and service levels.
In addition, particular emphasis is placed on the responsibilities of our store managers and workshop foremen to facilitate Diversity and equal opportunities on-the-job training.
More formal training programmes in the Ashtead works hard to ensure equal opportunities for all our UK are held at our National Training Centre in Nottingham.
staff, as well as prioritising employment diversity.
We use numerous recruiting sources including, but not limited to, local community agencies and contacts, minority and womens organisations, colleges and job fairs.
We predominantly recruit from the areas immediately around our facilities thereby providing opportunities for local people.
We make every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing employees becoming disabled, opportunities for work, training and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
We do not discriminate against any individual on the basis of a protected status, such as sex, colour, race, religion, native origin or age.
Ours is mainly a male workforce but nonetheless, we have women at all levels in both the US and UK including Suzanne Wood joining the Board shortly, on the senior management team, as store managers, sales executives and apprentices.
We are committed to providing excellent training and career paths for Apprenticeship programme all employees who work at Ashtead.
Last year A-Plants award-winning three-year In the US we are required by law to monitor ethnicity in our apprenticeship programme saw record recruitment workforce every year and maintain a diverse workforce.
Last figures with 42 Year 1 apprentices recruited into the year, in the UK, as part of our move towards online recruitment, business compared with 24 the previous year.
These were we began to gather ethnicity data as part of the recruitment split into three categories: plant maintenance: customer process to monitor our diversity.
We have also extended this to services: and driving.
The Plant Maintenance programme existing employees through an Equality and Inclusion Survey.
is a three-year programme where apprentices attend Increasingly many local authority and public sector tenders Reaseheath College, in Cheshire, on a block release basis request this kind of information.
We are committed to providing as well as gaining practical skills in store workshops under opportunities for people from all ethnic groups and in both the guidance of a mentor, where they work towards Level 3 geographies we have good representation from ethnic minorities Advanced Apprenticeship.
The Customer Service programme is also a three-year In addition, before the change in UK law which removed the programme and is predominantly work-based with default retirement age of 65 came into full effect, we already quarterly sessions delivered in-house, coupled with by agreement had a number of staff working beyond 65 and regular NVQ Assessor visits.
Driver apprentices are expect that to increase in the future.
In the US, there is no set store-based and their apprenticeship programme takes retirement age.
We believe we have one of the highest apprentice retention rates in the industry with typically over 85% of those graduating from the programme still employed one year after completing their training.
30 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 spray shops to ensure that repainting of equipment can be conducted safely and securely: bunded fuel tanks to ensure secure fuelling of our fleet and, where relevant, vehicles: ensuring proper arrangements are made, through the use of reputable vendors, for the collection and disposal of waste fuels and oils, tyres and other old or broken parts released as we service and maintain our rental fleets: investing in a modern and efficient delivery truck fleet which enables us to ensure that our vehicles are purchased with regard for good emissions management and fuel efficiency: ensuring, wherever practicable, that we control noise and potential disruption in and around our depots so as not to unduly impact the communities immediately surrounding Making the most of potential them: and Sheila OCallaghan joined A-Plant four years ago and the company was quick to spot her potential.
She says A-Plant reducing our waste to landfill by significantly increasing the amount of waste that goes to recycling.
has been very flexible and supportive in helping her complete her apprenticeship and then move on to become When it comes to reducing our own environmental impact, we a workshop assistant.
She has progressed fast and is support the initiatives of the Carbon Disclosure Project in the now workshop manager at our site in Brentwood, Essex, management of harmful carbon dioxide emissions.
We participate managing a team of nine engineers working on our in its annual survey and report on our carbon dioxide emissions.
specialised powered access rental equipment.
We are pleased to report that across the Group our estimated total CO2 emissions continued to decrease relative to our activity levels last year.
In the year to 30 April 2012 total CO2 emissions Environment were 162,000 tonnes 2011: 167,000 tonnes.
This comprised There are numerous laws governing environmental protection 139,000 tonnes at Sunbelt 2011: 142,000 tonnes and 23,000 that affect our business and we are committed to taking tonnes for A-Plant 2011: 25,000 tonnes.
reasonable actions to minimise the risk of adverse impact on the environment from our business.
As outlined earlier in this report, the equipment we rent is subject to increasing Having an emergency plan environmental regulations.
For example, from 2015, Tier 4 When accidental spills of oil, fuel or other hazardous engines, designed to further cut carbon emissions, will be the material do occur despite best preventative efforts, we are only ones available to purchase.
This will have a major impact prepared to remedy the situation via rapid response from on the equipment we acquire in the next few years to ensure one of our pre-screened and contracted emergency we are compliant with the new regulatory regime.
This enables us to efficiently address the environmental concerns before they become long-term and costly problems.
Limiting our environmental impact Last year, Sunbelt launched a major initiative to minimise the impacts and risk associated with our wash bays.
Whilst these emission levels are low relative to our revenue and We conducted audits at all our locations, to assess best employee numbers, we recognise that most of our emissions practice and ensure this was adopted throughout the are generated by our delivery truck fleet in transporting our network.
The programme involved significant investment equipment to customers job sites.
Our customers expect and in improved processes and or equipment upgrades, pay for this delivery but we continue to work on initiatives to help and included implementation of a new employee training us cut our emission levels, such as reducing the speed at which programme for equipment washing, improved access our vehicles are driven.
On big, long-term construction sites, to wash bay equipment maintenance materials and the we are prepared to place pools of our equipment at the job site publication of guidebooks.
enabling equipment to be sourced on site and thereby reducing the sites overall transportation needs.
As we reported last year we also developed the Auto Tool Hire Unit, which allows the We seek to fulfil our environmental obligations through: storage of smaller tools at the job-site.
Both these on-site initiatives reduce the need for item-by-item delivery to the job diligently tracking pertinent environmental regulations site thereby helping to cut distribution emissions.
and requirements and carrying out self-audits to maintain compliance: investing in the regular renewal of our rental fleets to ensure that the equipment we provide to our customers mostly incorporates the latest environmental technology available from our chosen manufacturers: Geoff Drabble ensuring that our stores are adequately equipped to operate Chief executive in a safe and secure way, protective of the environment.
Key 20 June 2012 matters covered are: wash-down bays to collect and safely dispose of materials released when we inspect and clean equipment returned from rent: enclosed paint booths and Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31
