50 Governance Ethics committee report Global Code of Business Ethics Global Code In 2007, the Board supported the issue of a Global Code of Business The Board will not tolerate Ethics which sets out the principles to be followed by employees improper business conduct of any when conducting business and makes it clear that the Board pursues a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The sort and will take all necessary action Global Code was revised in 2009 and was assessed as best in class to ensure compliance in 2011 by Radley Yeldar, a corporate communications company that reviewed 142 FTSE 350 Codes of Conduct against a set of 28 criteria.
Work is currently underway to simplify the Global Code which we expect to roll-out with training and engagement activities in the first half of 2013.
The revised Global Code will: provide increased clarity around the Companys principles and the responsibility of individuals: focus on the guidance and support available to employees to help them apply the Global Code: and be more concise while focusing content on key topics.
Ian Strachan ABC work programme Chairman of the ethics committee After the publication of the Woolf Committee report in 2008, the The ethics committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
In Board undertook a systematic review of its ethics and compliance 2012, the committee met five times and details of its membership and attendance can procedures that led to the creation of the ethics committee which be found on page 44.
During the year, the General Counsel & Head of Risk, Robert Webb, took executive responsibility for ethics and attended the meetings.
The Chairman of the first met under my chairmanship in November 2008.
In 2009, with Board, the Chief Executive, the Head of Business Ethics and the Chief Compliance Officer the assistance of an independent firm of auditors and at a cost of were also invited to attend meetings on a regular basis.
over 6 million, the Company conducted a thorough review to measure its ABC policies and procedures against the Woolf The ethics committee was formed in 2008.
It is responsible for Committee Report, the Aerospace & Defence Industries Association reviewing compliance with the Groups Global Code of Business of Europe Common Industry Standards, the US Federal Sentencing Ethics, for establishing bribery prevention policies and for Guidelines, the UK Bribery Bill then in draft and the OECD reviewing arrangements by which staff may raise concerns Guidelines.
The first policies to be implemented arising from the about improprieties in confidence.
It considers recommendations work programme were the global gifts and hospitality policy and a on ethical matters made by external regulatory authorities or new global intermediaries policy both of which went into effect on other bodies and makes recommendations to the Board on how 1 December 2010. they should be applied in Rolls-Royce.
The committees full terms of reference are available on the Groups website Policies, procedures and guidance notes on the remaining topic at www.
com areas followed in the period from December 2010 to the implementation of the UK Bribery Act on 1 July 2011.
These covered Referral to Serious Fraud Office SFO a number of topics including: sponsorships and donations: During the last year, much of the discussion at the ethics facilitation payments: raising concerns: conflicts of interest: committee has centred on specific concerns about bribery and competitive intelligence: sales and business evaluation: corruption involving intermediaries in overseas markets.
collaborative ventures: joint ventures: offset: human resources: This followed a request for information from the SFO about financial monitoring and reporting: supply chain and purchasing: allegations of malpractice in Indonesia and China.
The review by government interactions: and political lobbying.
The ABC our compliance team identified matters of sufficient concern to Programme team came to a close in July 2011, having delivered cause the committee to recommend to the Board that the law all of the necessary policies identified in the review.
firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP be instructed to conduct an independent investigation.
Global Intermediaries Policy In 2009, the newly formed ethics committee enhanced and updated As a result of that investigation, on 6 December 2012 we announced the Groups Global Intermediaries Policy to require more exacting that we were passing information to the SFO addressing their contractual warranties and safeguards in agreements with concerns in Indonesia and China and identifying further matters intermediaries.
The current policy introduced in December 2010 of concern in other overseas markets.
The consequence of these represents a significant enhancement over the prior regime.
A disclosures will be decided by the regulatory authorities.
It is too risk-based approach has been adopted, whereby the Company early to predict the outcomes but these could include the assigns a risk rating to each intermediary lower, moderate, or prosecution of individuals and of the Company.
We are cooperating higher on the basis of a standardised risk assessment.
John Rishton has stated unequivocally that neither he nor the Proportionate levels of review and due diligence are conducted on Board will tolerate improper conduct of any sort and all necessary each intermediary depending on this risk rating.
This has resulted in action will be taken to ensure compliance.
The Board is committed much more intense scrutiny of activities in high risk countries, to anti-bribery and corruption ABC compliance.
Our Board Charter covering matters such as the level of payments to intermediaries, includes a commitment to ensure the Group meets the highest their qualifications and the business case for their use.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 Governance 51 Governance Ethics committee report Further work is underway to improve the process for appointment Central ethics and compliance team or renewal of intermediary advisers and consultants.
The Company In 2011, the Board vested authority to administer and enforce our plans to introduce further enhanced controls targeting: the nature ABC policies in a newly-created compliance organisation, separate of the services the intermediary will provide: the value for money from but working closely with the business ethics team that that represents: proposed and historical payment information: remains in place to manage the Global Code and the reporting and disclosure of all relevant historical information about hotlines.
The compliance organisations remit is to embed the ABC the intermediary.
policies in the businesses and take the ABC programme into a business as usual mode.
The compliance organisation, with a total Global Gifts and Hospitality Policy staff of 19, is headed by the Groups first Chief Compliance Officer, This policy ensures that gifts and hospitality offered or accepted by who joined in May 2011. the Groups employees do not appear to give or actually give a business advantage and are properly approved and documented.
Conclusion An updated and simpler version of the gifts and hospitality policy As our actions in 2012 demonstrate, we aim to live up to the high was introduced in October 2012 along with a global internet-based ethical standards we have set ourselves.
Despite the progress we reporting tool, Rolls-Royce Compliance Online.
have undoubtedly made, we constantly strive to improve our controls as indicated by our recent appointment of Lord Gold to Confidential reporting lines lead an independent review of our current procedures.
In 2008, the Company established telephone contact numbers in 31 countries along with web-based reporting to enable employees, We believe that everyone in our Group has a role to play in wherever they were based in the world, to report confidentially any maintaining and building upon our reputation.
This is at the heart concerns they might have with regard to business conduct.
of the way we do business and how we deliver our brand promise The committee receives reports on concerns raised through the of Trusted to deliver excellence.
Early this year, an improved service will be introduced combining both the internal ethics helpline and the Ian Strachan confidential reporting line to provide a single route for individuals Chairman of the ethics committee to ask questions or raise concerns 24 hours a day.
Training and engagement Following the launch of the revised Global Code in 2009, a training and engagement programme was undertaken to ensure full awareness of the Global Code and the Groups values and ethics across the organisation.
This training programme ultimately reached more than 37,000 employees, starting with face-to-face workshops delivered to 4,600 managers across the Group.
The ABC work programme introduced a further comprehensive training programme to ensure that the new ABC policies and procedures were fully understood.
Two training modules were created for gifts and hospitality an e-learning module was completed by 23,000 employees and a facilitated online training module designed for employees was completed by the 4,000 employees responsible for approving gifts and hospitality.
Two training modules also support the intermediaries process, both of which must be taken by any employees who interact with the Groups intermediaries.
By the time the UK Bribery Act came into effect on 1 July 2011, the Group had delivered more than 12,000 hours of training with an additional 9,000 hours planned.
Further training is always on our agenda.
In 2012, the Group launched an online training module for employees in how to deal with conflicts of interest and also developed training for employees who are actively involved in the acquisition and use of competitive intelligence.
Additional training on ABC policies will also be rolled out on a global basis in 2013.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
