Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 32 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 corporate social responsibility The Group believes that responsible business is the best business.
It can benefit our operational effectiveness, develop our industry leading products, grow our business and build on the trust of our stakeholders.
WHY DOES CORPORATE SOCIAL Health and Safety included in the FTSE4Good index where we maintain an above average score in the RESPONSIBILITY MATTER TO ROTORK?
The Groups employees are essential to the Sustainability lies at the heart of the Groups success of its business.
Providing a safe global rankings, UK rankings and industry sector rankings.
commitment to corporate social responsibility working environment is paramount and by CSR and it represents a valuable opportunity ensuring our people are safe we enhance The Group believes that the approach it to ensure that the Group continues to be the effectiveness of our workforce by successful in the long term.
For these reasons, mitigating the risk of injury and reducing takes to CSR, as set out in this report, helps to meet the expectations of our the Group endeavours to entrench CSR across costs associated with employee illness or all its processes and ways of working.
The Groups approach to health and stakeholders and contributes to the success of our corporate strategy by promoting an safety can be found on pages 37 to 38.
The Groups approach to CSR is focused effective and sustainable business.
around four main themes: Community Involvement The Groups asset-light, assembly only The Chief Executive reports to the Board on CSR progress.
The Chief Executive chairs the The Environment manufacturing model means that we do not The environmental programme, described in significantly disrupt local communities where CSR Committee, a management committee, which has four sub-committees with each more detail on pages 32 to 35, benefits the we are based.
Nevertheless, we recognise Group in a number of ways including that we operate in a wide number of representing one of the aspects of CSR described above.
Presentations are given by ensuring compliance with legal requirements territories around the world and that our in all territories in which the Group operates, operations have some impact on the the Chairmen of the four sub-committees to the Board on activity and progress in achieving cost savings by reducing waste and communities within these territories.
resource consumption, and reducing Furthermore, the Groups employees, their areas of CSR during the year.
emissions which contributes to sustaining the customers and suppliers are often members environments in which the Group operates.
of these communities and often these The diagram opposite sets out our CSR Committee structure: businesses are run by local people.
An Ethics and values outcome of this engagement is to ensure PROGRESS, PERFORMANCE The Group looks to conduct business in an that the Group continues to be welcomed honest and ethical manner at all times.
High in the communities it works in and this AND TARGETS THE ENvIRONMENT standards of ethics and values are important contributes to the sustainability of its to the Group because they help to foster an operations.
Local causes are supported Overview Policies, procedures and systems are in place open and honest culture which contributes to through each location having its own charity the effectiveness of our people, allowing us to committee focused on its local community.
to eliminate, reduce and control our operational impact on the environment and to attract, motivate and retain talent, build on More details on community involvement can the trust of our stakeholders and to enhance be found on pages 38 to 39. ensure compliance with all relevant legislation.
Audits, measurement and monitoring are and protect our reputation.
Furthermore, behaving ethically and honestly, for example The Group recognises that shareholders are carried out to ensure our policies and procedures are followed and systems are by taking a zero tolerance approach to bribery becoming increasingly focused on CSR and corruption, contributes to improving issues and take into account the Guidelines effective in managing the impact.
Training is provided to enable employees to carry out standards in markets around the world which on Social Responsibility issued by the will help nurture and grow these markets.
The Group their duties without risk to themselves, others or the environment.
More details of the Groups ethics and values has been a member of the UN Global can be found on pages 35 to 37.
Compact since 2003 and continues to be Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 33 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee HEALTH & ETHICS SAFETY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Systems are in place to monitor environmental performance across the Group.
This report sets out performance summaries of: SOCIAL Energy consumption: ISSUES ENvIRONMENTAL Waste generation and recycling COMMITTEE COMMITTEE including hazardous waste : and Water consumption.
Data on VOC and refrigerants HFC is also recorded and reported in the Environmental Report, available from the investors section of the Rotork website under Corporate The Group considers climate change and Group Environmental Policy Social Responsibility - Environment.
A full brief of Group environmental performance other environmental risks but given the and Procedures Groups business model, it considers the The Groups environmental policy applies is given at quarterly CSR Committee meetings where actions are documented overall risk to the environment from the to the Company and all its subsidiaries Groups activities to be relatively low.
The policy includes and progress reviewed at the next meeting.
Group notes the following operational risks: commitments to the prevention of EU Registration, Evaluation and pollution, compliance with all relevant legal This years report encompasses more data than before as more locations, including Authorisation of Chemicals REACH and regulatory requirements and to the legislation.
As a downstream user the continuous improvement of environmental recent acquisitions, report their environmental performance.
Group relies on the manufacturers of performance.
The policy was revised in chemicals and preparations for the September 2012.
The Groups A more detailed report of environmental continuing availability of its products.
environmental policy can be found at We continuously monitor the chemicals www.
com in the investors section performance for the year ending 31 December 2012 will be given in the and preparations used: and under Corporate Social Responsibility - EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances Environment.
Environmental Report, to be published on the Rotork website in April 2013.
A copy in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive RoHS 2.
The Groups Separate policies define the Companys of our Environmental Report containing 2011 performance data can be found at electronic products will need to comply expectations on a number of environmental with RoHS 2 by 2017.
We are evaluating issues such as recycling and water use.
com in the investors section under Corporate Social Responsibility - our products, systems and procedures in Some Rotork businesses, which operate in light of RoHS 2 and taking action as regions that have fewer environmental Environment.
facilities available for example, recycling facilities, can present challenges but it is Progress Energy Consumption The Groups environmental legal compliance Rotorks expectation that our environmental activities include: policies are implemented consistently across Rotork operates an assembly only philosophy in all but four of our business units and we Waste Packaging Producers Obligation the Group.
Regulations 2007 Rotork is a member rely on specialist suppliers for most of our manufactured components and assemblies.
of the Clarity compliance scheme: Operational control procedures are in place Waste Electrical and Electronic to manage a range of environmental In all facilities energy is used for IT systems, lighting, heating and cooling.
Exceptions Equipment Regulations 2006 WEEE activities such as the generation and Rotork is a member of the Clarity-WEEE disposal of hazardous waste, storage and are the Groups operations in Losser, Netherlands, Falun, Sweden, Mansfield, compliance scheme: use of oil and volatile organic compounds Waste Battery and Accumulator VOC, and the maintenance of air UK and Winston-Salem, USA where some machine processes are in operation.
In other Regulations 2009 Rotork is registered conditioning equipment.
Where as a small battery producer: and appropriate, emergency plans are produced locations test equipment is used to ensure the product meets customer operational Where regulated use of licensed waste and communicated effectively to manage carriers for the removal of all types of and control potential incidents which may requirements which can consume large pollute, such as oil spills.
amounts of energy for short periods of time waste from Rotork facilities our waste goes to licensed treatment facilities.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 34 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 corporate social responsibility continued Consumption of electricity, gas and steam is The 2012 Recycling & Waste Generation calculated using utility invoices.
Liquified Performance figures include data from petroleum gas LPG and oil is calculated locations which operate in regions where using sales invoices.
recycling facilities are in their infancy or not available.
2012 Energy Consumption Performance Summary and 2013 Targets Waste recycling has been one of the On a like for like basis, energy Groups published KPIs since they were consumption increased 10% compared introduced in 2008.
We have made with 2011, slightly below the rate of considerable progress over this time and organic revenue increase.
With the whilst the drive to maintain these high levels inclusion of new reporting companies of recycling will continue and will be this year, the overall increase was 24%: reported in the Environmental Report, this The expansion of the Groups facility in KPI will be replaced by a carbon emissions Shanghai, China and the new plant in KPI in the Group KPIs for 2013.
Annually a team from K-Tork in Dallas, USA, helps children in Choluteca, Honduras, by giving them food and toys.
Chennai, India contributed significantly to Water Consumption the increase in business activity with small Water consumption is measured across the fluctuations in climate conditions at some Group.
For the majority of Rotork locations facilities also contributing to the increase.
water consumption derives from normal operation and sanitary use.
The exception Waste Generation and Recycling to this is Winston-Salem, USA, where Waste generation includes packaging waste processes involving higher volumes of water card, wood and plastic, metal waste are in operation.
ferrous and non-ferrous, hazardous materials paint waste, oils and adhesives, 2012 Water Consumption Performance batteries and waste electrical electronic Summary equipment.
Water consumption in 2012 increased by 55% against 2011 results: The Groups policy is to recycle wherever A team from Houston, USA, took part in the BP Multiple The Winston-Salem site in the USA, a possible.
We have installed recycling Sclerosis 150 Houston to Austin Bike Ride and raised $1950.
recent acquisition, accounts for 61% of equipment such as balers and wood the increase: crushers at a number of our high volume Chennai, India, where the Group has locations.
To ensure suppliers also play their opened a new manufacturing and research part we have introduced our own minimum facility, accounts for 20% of the increase: packaging standards for suppliers.
Bath, UK, where there has been an increase in product testing, accounts for As the number of reporting locations 8% of the increase: increases, the amount of waste recycled Lucca, Italy, where there has been an continues to rise.
increase in product testing, accounts for 6% of the increase.
2012 Waste Generation and Recycling Performance Summary The balance of the increase is a result of Waste generation increased by 12% to fluctuations in normal usage and the 2,572 tonnes: inclusion of performance data from new Recycling increased by 13% to 1,981 tonnes: acquisitions.
Water consumption in Waste recycling KPI the percentage of Winston-Salem is under review and the recycled waste against total waste was results of that review will be published in 77%, exceeding the 2012 target of 76%.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 35 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Three teams from Rotork climbed the Pen-y-Fan Horseshoe in the Brecon Beacons for WaterAid.
Tom Whittingham from Rotork Bath, UK, took part in the Cardiff half marathon and raised over 1,300 for ME Research with a further 250 from Rotorks Charity Committee.
Business Travel The Group calculates GHG emissions in Work will start this year and include Systems and procedures are in place to accordance with the Greenhouse Gas completing studies at our larger sites and measure business travel by road, coach, rail Protocol GHG Protocol developed jointly whilst the measured progress may be and air, and the transport of products by by the World Business Council for modest in 2013, momentum will build over company owned vehicles covering operations Sustainable Development and the World the five year time period.
of many of the Groups sites.
The Group uses Resource Institute.
video conferencing at all of its manufacturing ETHICS AND vALUES facilities to reduce business travel.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions are Overview calculated in accordance with the GHG Ethics and values are central to the way we Business travel data for 2011 was incomplete Protocol using conversion factors published do business.
The Groups Ethics and Values as systems were being established to capture by the US Environmental Protection Agency Statement can be viewed on our website in a the data in some locations.
Therefore the EPA, The Department for Environment, number of languages.
Ethics and values can 2012 data will be used as the baseline year Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and the be split into four strands: for business travel data.
More detailed International Energy Agency IEA.
Human rights and ethical business: information on business travel will be The Group is fully committed to respecting published in the Groups 2012 Environmental All Scope 2 GHG emissions have been internationally proclaimed human rights as Report which will be available to download calculated using the relevant conversion factor defined in the International Declaration of from the Rotork website.
for the territory where energy was used or Human Rights and the International consumed based on the mix of coal, oil, gas, Labour Organisations standards.
The Carbon Emissions hydroelectric or nuclear generation.
Group does not accept any form of child The Group measures and calculates Scope or forced labour and embracing the UN 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG All Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to travel Global Compact principles throughout the and publishes the results through the are calculated using conversion factors business is a demonstration of this Carbon Disclosure Project and in the published by DEFRA in August 2011. commitment.
2012 Carbon Emissions Performance The Group recognises that an open and The Groups Scope 1 GHG emissions Summary and 2013 Targets honest culture is key to understanding derive from the consumption of gas, The following summary excludes supply concerns within the business and to liquified petroleum gas, oil and through chain emissions.
uncover and investigate any potential business travel and the transport of Operational emissions for 2012 increased wrongdoing.
In 2012, the Group goods via Rotork owned vehicles: by 16% on a like for like basis or 29% in substantively approved a refreshed and The Groups Scope 2 GHG emissions total when acquisitions are included: updated whistleblowing policy and an derive from the consumption of Scope 1 emissions increased by 14%: independent external whistleblowing electricity and steam: Scope 2 emissions increased by 37%.
hotline, both of which will be introduced The Groups Scope 3 GHG emissions in 2013. derive from the materials used in: the New acquisitions accounted for 46% of the product: supply chain emissions: travel increase in emissions with the balance of Employees: between the supply chain and Rotork: the increase resulting from increased We have a firm commitment to all our and other business travel not included in business activity.
employees regarding safety and Scope 1 emissions.
The project to calculate development.
Rotork has an objective and cradle to gate emissions, that is emissions Energy efficiency is an area in which the fair recruitment process, which promotes from the extraction of minerals in the Group intends to focus greater attention.
equal opportunities across the Group ground cradle to when the products leave For 2013, the Group will introduce a new inline with the global Respect at Work the Groups manufacturing facilities gate, carbon emissions KPI as one of the Groups and Equality of Opportunity policy.
The for all current products is 80% complete.
Our target is to Groups offices in Bath, UK, and However, further work on electronic reduce our carbon emissions as a function Parabiago, Italy, have employee forums components across all products is needed of revenue by 10% between now and 2017. where employees can raise issues to be before the publication of any results.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 36 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 corporate social responsibility continued The Group supports apprenticeship situations where enhanced due diligence schemes for young men and women would be disproportionate, such as which help to increase access into all where the third party is known to the aspects of the Groups business.
Group and located in a low risk www.
com en investors index jurisdiction and market sector.
These ethicsvalues third parties are also subject to continual screening.
Bribery and corruption: The Group has a zero tolerance policy on During 2012, an exercise was undertaken bribery and corruption worldwide, to send new agency agreements to all of irrespective of country or business the Groups agents.
The Groups Ethics and Values incorporate the Groups Ethics and Markus Scheider from Rotork Melle, Germany, took part in statement states that our employees will Values Statement and oblige the agent the 25th IPA Niedersachsen Tour 2012 and Rotork kindly donated 600 in aid of a German Childrens Cancer Charity.
never offer, pay or solicit bribes in any to read, understand and comply with the form and is published on the Groups same ethical standards as the Groups website in a number of languages: employees, including an absolute The Group does not make political prohibition on bribery and corruption.
contributions in cash or kind anywhere The new agency agreements all contain in the world.
a consistent contractual limit on the maximum commission payable and how The Groups whistleblowing policy gives it can be earned, inline with the Group whistleblowers a platform to alert senior policy on commission.
management to any suspected bribery or corruption, which is available to Suppliers: download from the Rotork website.
The Group has continued to invest in its outsourcing model, selecting suppliers The Group also makes use of detailed with sound reputations in the Staff and their families contributed $1,612 to Run Ballarat, a charity race that takes place in Australia.
background checks provided by specialist marketplace.
Many of the suppliers have bribery and corruption due diligence a long term working relationship with consultants before it deals with the Company, ensuring ingrained unknown third parties including agents, product knowledge within the supply prospective acquisitions and suppliers chain.
Suppliers are also subject to which are operating in higher risk continuous automated online monitoring jurisdictions or market sectors.
The as described above and the Company is Group makes use of objective guidance alerted where any derogatory on country risk, such as the Corruption information is uncovered.
Perception Index by Transparency International, to help assess potential In the past year, the supplier assessment risks in this area.
When working with the programme has been extended to unknown third party, and after the initial include more detailed CSR themed detailed background checks, the Group questions.
Questions associated with also continually screens these third equal rights and equal pay, anti-bribery parties against a large number of and corruption policies, charitable giving, international sources which could detect environmental impact and anti unethical behaviour including watchlists, compulsory labour or child labour sanctions lists and the media using its practices have been included in these due diligence consultants proprietary surveys.
This database is also used in suppliers have been considered under Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 37 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 this re-evaluation.
These assessments are Continue to reference anti-bribery and countries in which Rotork operates.
The discussed directly with the suppliers.
Any corruption in each company newsletter: policy can be viewed on the Groups website corrective action plan is agreed between Rollout the updated whistleblowing under Corporate Social Responsibility Rotork and the supplier.
A programme is policy and independent external Health and Safety in the investors section.
in place to continue these assessments whistleblowing hotline to the Group.
throughout 2013, looking at both Effective management of the Groups health and safety programme enables us to: existing and potentially new suppliers.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Overview Minimise the risk of injury to our employees, customers and suppliers and The Groups UK trading companies, The safety of Group employees, customers Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK and visitors is of paramount importance to damage to property: Reduce costs associated with employee Limited, are both signatories to the the Group.
It is our policy to provide a safe Prompt Payment Code which ensures working environment for all employees and illness, injury and loss of physical assets: Continually improve the Groups health that suppliers are paid according to the visitors to any of the Groups sites and terms agreed and encourages good ensure employees work safely.
For these and safety practices.
practice be passed down supply chains.
reasons, policies and procedures are in place and help to eliminate, reduce or The Group operates a behaviour-based safety programme.
This requires managers and Progress control our operational risks and ensure An updated and refreshed Group compliance with health and safety supervisors to encourage safe working practices by: whistleblowing policy was substantively legislation.
approved which incorporates the use of Promoting regular safety observations by all staff: an independent external whistleblowing The Group undertakes health and safety hotline as an alternative method to audits at all of its locations.
A schedule of Regularly asking employees for their suggestions for improving safety at their raising whistleblowing concerns audits is established and approved by the internally: CSR Committee.
Each Rotork location is facility: Holding employees accountable for Following on from a revision of the supplier audited against a checklist which has been audit questionnaire in 2011 to include developed to ensure each location meets observing these practices: Providing managing safety courses for questions centred around CSR, 25 of the the Groups standards for health and safety.
top 50 suppliers and all new suppliers to Each item on the checklist is assessed line management: and Regular health and safety training to Rotorks Bath, UK, manufacturing plant against pre-determined criteria and scored.
were retrospectively audited and no A calculation of the overall score gives the employees on subjects such as manual handling and confined spaces.
remedial action was required: location a rating and any location not A FTSE4Good score of 3.8 was achieving the baseline rating is given limited The Groups health and safety policy and maintained.
This is in excess of UK, time to improve.
global and industry averages: arrangement document sets out the All audits are reviewed by the Groups Health Companys policies for all of its activities.
An employee satisfaction survey score of 3.6 was achieved, a small increase on the and Safety Officer and all actions resulting Rotork employees are engaged in activities from audits are recorded and monitored for which include manual handling of heavy previous year with record numbers of employees participating: correct and timely rectification.
objects, mechanical lifting, operating machinery and driving to suppliers, and Regular communications sent from the A full report of our Group health and safety Group Legal Department to General customers locations.
In addition to working performance is given at quarterly CSR in the Groups facilities, employees also work Managers and International Sales Committee meetings and all actions are Managers regarding relevant bribery and on customer sites, which are often more recorded and progress reviewed at the next hazardous.
To reduce the risks associated corruption related events in the business meeting.
The results of audits, the rating of environment and the whistleblowing with these activities, additional safe working locations and the status of audit actions are practices are in place and include: policy was communicated to all reviewed by the Health and Safety Committee employees in every edition of the Site surveys, to establish requirements, and any actions identified are acted upon.
measurements and an assessment of the company newsletter: Ongoing automatic bribery and potential work area: Training is provided to enable employees to Design assessments to identify risks, hazards corruption screening introduced.
carry out their duties without risk to and necessary controls to eliminate, reduce themselves or to others.
or control the risk to a reasonable level: 2013 Targets Use improved ethical supplier auditing to Method statements, detailing the work The Group health and safety policy is that is to be done, the control and retrospectively audit a further 20 major endorsed by the Chief Executive and sets out suppliers: equipment that are to be used: the Groups requirement to meet or exceed Deliver bribery and corruption training to legislative and other requirements in the relevant non-managerial employees: Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 38 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 corporate social responsibility continued Point of work risk assessments, before neighbour around the world.
We regard this work starts, which must also be reviewed as part of our ongoing responsibilities as a after any period away from the work area: corporate entity.
The Group seeks to be The use of permits-to-work when regarded as a good corporate citizen.
This working in hazardous environments such links into our corporate values which include as confined space work: and producing a positive and beneficial impact in Unannounced internal audits of employees the areas in which we operate.
One of the when working on a customer site.
ways the Group does this is by having local charity committees at each of our sites which Five performance indicators are monitored donate to local charitable causes.
This across the Group and performance against empowers local employees to decide how to these indicates is reported to the Audit distribute the funds in their local Rotorks charity committee in Sweden donated 15,700 SEK Committee: communities.
The Group aims to contribute to the Swedish Cancer Society.
Accident frequency rate which is a 0.1% of profits to local charitable causes.
reported Group KPI : Lost time rate: Local community involvement highlights Incident frequency rate: from the year include: Health and safety audit rating: and A Rotork Germany employee based in On time completion of health and safety Melle speaking at a local high school audit actions.
about job applications: Various locations running By monitoring the results of these performance apprenticeships, work placement and indicators, we are able to identify areas of internship programmes: strong performance, which can be shared Rotork Fairchild employees donating to a across the Group and areas of weakness which local food bank: may require additional resources and training.
Rotork Shanghai employees supporting a local primary school: and Rotork India employees donating clothes Progress One of the Groups non-financial KPIs is to local causes.
It is calculated as an average of the past three The Group has forged links with local universities, colleges and schools in a years AFR performance.
In 2012 the Group achieved an AFR of 0.46, surpassing the number of the locations where we operate and sponsors students to go into higher 2012 target of 0.47. education in India in addition to sponsoring a school there.
The Group is the industry Details of the Groups AFR over the past five years and how it is calculated is shown on member of the Bath Educational Trust, which aims to advance education in Bath page 29. schools and promote community cohesion.
2013 Targets Achieve an AFR of 0.43.
A Group representative is a member of the Industrial Advisory Board for the Mechanical COMMUNITY INvOLvEMENT Engineering Department of Bath University.
The Group is also a member of an initiative Overview The Group considers it important to of the Engineering Development Trust and sponsors a science project currently being contribute to and engage positively with stakeholders in the communities in which it undertaken by pupils in the sixth form of a local Bath school.
operates and to be a good community Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 39 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Photographer credit: WaterAid James McCauley.
The Group has supported two international charities in 2012, WaterAid and Send a Cow.
Specic projects of these charities are supported and the Group receives updates throughout the year on the progress of the projects.
WaterAid uses the Groups support to help fund the Jeldu Woreda Project in Ethiopia, which aims to deliver safe and adequate water, sanitation and hygiene facilities to 16,000 villagers across three villages in Ethiopia by using alternative energy sources to provide a WaterAid Jeldu Woreda sustainable water pumping system.
WaterAid also use Rotorks Project that Rotork funds.
support to promote good sanitation and hygiene practices in the village by providing adequate facilities such as hand washing basins.
2013 Targets The project benets include a reduction in the prevalence of water To increase donations to charitable causes.
The Group will borne diseases, a reduction in the distance travelled to reach fresh endeavour to: water, improved access to sanitation facilities and improved Donate 0.1% of Group profits to Rotorks nominated environmental cleanliness.
The Group has supported this project international charities: and since 2011, when it was in its first phase, and will continue to Donate 0.1% of Group profits to charitable causes local to support it until this project is completed in 2013.
Send a Cow uses the Groups contributions to support its Building Contacts and Feedback Futures project.
Building Futures provides families in Eastern The Group welcomes and values feedback.
If you have any Uganda with training, resources and knowledge to equip them with comments regarding this CSR report or any aspect of the Groups vital farming skills to improve agricultural productivity and allow CSR programme, please contact Stephen Jones, Company Secretary, families to work their way out of poverty by being able to generate by writing to him at the Rotork plc registered ofce, full details of a regular income.
The Group funds several communities and Send a which can be found in the corporate directory on page 117.
Cow provides livestock, practical training in sustainable agricultural practices and training on building strong and harmonious communities so that the families can work together and become self-reliant.
Training is also provided on other issues such as home Charitable Donations over the last five years hygiene practices and HIV AIDS prevention and care.
Progress 50,000 contributed by the Group to WaterAid plus a further 6,378 contributed to WaterAid through employee fundraising activities: 41,000 contributed to Send a Cow: and 69,000 95,000 144,000 163,000 201,000 110,000 contributed to local charitable causes.
