RPC Group Plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Our sustainability story As a global force in rigid plastic packaging, we are committed to incorporating sustainability into our overall business strategy and helping our customers to achieve their environmental goals.
Sinceour inception we have been constantly developing innovative packaging solutions that provide sustainability benefits for our owndirect operations, our customers and our supply chain.
RPCbelieves that: Packaging is making a significant contribution to modern day living and the efficiency of the Western worlds food distribution system, where onlyabout 3% of wastage occurs between farm and supermarket, asopposed to wastage rates of 3050% in less developed countries duetothe comparative lack of adequate packaging.
In rigid plastic packaging we can reduce the environmental impact of ourpackaging through lightweighting, using recycled plastic and developing novel packaging solutions and indeed extend the longevity ofthe products that packaging is designed to protect while still maintaining functional performance.
In partnership with our customers and suppliers we strive to find the most attractive and environmentally beneficial solutions across the wholesupply chain to support each lifecyclestage of packaging from design to disposal.
By optimising our manufacturing processes we directly reduce our  impact.
The carbon footprint of our electricity andwater consumption, distribution systems and our waste disposal areunder permanent scrutiny and have been reduced over recent years asa result of proactive actions and investments.
R a w m Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information a t n t e m e p o l e r v e d i d n a a n g l i s e D s R e t a i l F i l l RPC Group Plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The packaging lifecycle As a packaging manufacturer, RPC has greatest control over the earliest stages of the packaging lifecycle.
However, the influence of our actions at the design stage reaches far beyond, to the customer and even the recycling opportunities at the end-of-life stage.
RPC is taking positive steps to tackle sustainability challenges and the diagram below shows the most significant environmental impacts throughout the packaging lifecycle which we can control or influence.
Closed loop process Responsible procurement reduction in waste tolandfill Research & development of new materials such as Sustainable raw bio-polymers materialsource Consideration of target Lightweighting demographic Use of post consumer Reduction in food recyclate waste Product protection Sustainability Recyclability Reduce Increased shelf-life Energy consumption Product protection Waste Water consumption Carbon emissions Product protection Efficient transportation i n g a n d l a d s i s o t p r i s b i d u t i n o o n i t a r e n i c n i e g s n u i l - c e y R c e R M a n u f a n c n t o u i r o t i c n e g l l o c l a s o p s i d e s U RPC Group Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Developing sustainable packaging solutions Product Development and Innovation The work in this area is an evolving field in A Sustainable Solution Bio-materials which we are continuously active across all Lightweighting A developing area of focus for us over the ofthe main polymers that we use in packaging Across the industry, packaging has become pastfew years has been bio-materials.
Our work to date progressively lighter while still maintaining Interms of use for plastic packaging has resulted in the design and manufacture thesame technical performance.
This is bio-materials can be split into two categories.
of a number of packaging applications evident particularly in the UK where, despite that incorporate PCR material.
Bio-based material which is derived from the increased demand for consumer goods, studies shown illustrate two such innovative plants or another non fossil fuel source the weight of packaging purchased per applications of recycled plastics within the which can either partly or fully replace personhas remained roughly the same over Group and their environmental benefits.
the last 10 years source: Incpen.
RPC has managed to reduce weights of packaging Product protection 2.
An additive to aid bio-degradation across all three of its manufacturing The development and use of innovative orcomposting when the packaging processes through significant investments multi-layer packaging within the Group isdisposedof.
in tooling, process changes and machinery has provided a protective barrier so that We are working with a number of bio-material alongside developments in materials.
This our customers products have a prolonged suppliers to evaluate, research and develop hasbeen achieved while maintaining the shelf-life.
This has not only helped to reduce these materials within our packaging portfolio.
technical capability of the packaging and the energy demands on refrigeration, but Customer collaboration fuelled by consumer ensuring that it is able to carry out its primary alsoensures food remains fresh on shelf, demand and recyclability will be key to the function of protecting a product throughout reducing spoilage and the high environmental future use of bio-materials within the Group.
allstages of supply, distribution and use.
impact associated with food waste.
Recycled material In response to demographic and lifestyle RPC has been working with the recycling changes, notably the increase in single person industry for many years, collaborating households and the overall trend towards withgovernment agencies such as the greater consumer convenience and eating Waste & Resources Action Programme on the move, we continue to manufacture WRAP to research and develop the use innovative portion packs.
Portion control will ofpost consumer recycled PCR material increasingly be required to contribute to the inpackaging.
The use of PCR diverts reduction of food waste and is also relevant end-of-life plastic from landfill and also inreducing waste within other sectors such reduces energy demand in comparison as the pharmaceutical market.
The Heinz case withthe sourcing of virgin raw materials.
study below provides more information on how we have developed portion control packs.
Case Study: Partnering with Heinz to develop sustainable solutions Our work with Heinz, across all three of our The blow moulded fridge pack container manufacturing processes, is one example is designed to reduce food waste as it is of where we have provided a customer resealable to allow portion control and has with a range of sustainable packaging multi-layer walls to extend shelf-life and solutions.
Innovations include: ensure product protection.
Its shape also maximises volumes during distribution.
The Heinz Beanz fridge pack cap is a TM bespoke injection moulded design which The thermoformed Snap Pots are is 20% lighter than standard caps.
designed to meet the demand of increasing single person households to reduce food waste through portion control.
The shelf-life of the product is also extended through the use of multi-layer barrier technology.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Developing post consumer recycled PET r-PET Sustainability benefits: Reduction in product carbon footprint.
Closes the packaging lifecycle loop.
No reduction in the packagings performance.
Diverts waste from landfill or incineration.
Future opportunities: Increase percentage of recycled content in packs where , supply and economic pressures allow.
Research and develop new applications of r-PET use within theGroup.
Our Montonate plastic sheet manufacturing facility in Italy has invested heavily in technology to achieve the production of r-PET Recycled content: sheet from post consumer recycled PET flake.
This sheet is then used in applications such as toothpaste packaging.
R-PET is also used in other applications within the Group such as bottles, jars andpots with varying recycled content.
50-70% Developing post consumer recycled polypropylene r-PP Sustainability benefits: Reduction in product carbon footprint.
Gives used PP products a second life in a new format.
Future opportunities: Increase the content in paint cans above 25%.
Explore the use of r-PP in horticultural product packaging, pailsandbuckets.
Research and develop the use of r-PP for .
The UK Injection Moulding and Superfos clusters have both been working on the production of packaging containing recycled PP.
A project in the UK, in partnership with paint manufacturers AkzoNobel, has resulted in the production of paint cans containing Recycled content: 25% post consumer r-PP.
This technically demanding pack came about as a direct result of close cooperation with AkzoNobel.
Themajor challenge was to balance the level of recycled content 25% withthe technical and performance requirements of the packaging.
RPC Group Plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Partnership throughout the packaging lifecycle Packaging is only one part of the product packaging format.
The smallest impact comes Average CO2 emissions from supply chain.
Despite being so visible in the from transport.
This is an area over which Superfos products waste stream, its primary role is as a delivery we do not have a significant amount of direct and protection mechanism for a product that control: however, we are investigating ways 3 1 has a significantly higher environmentalimpact to improve distribution by increasing full loads than the packagingitself.
Our packaging is and coordinating logistics within geographic a key element in the supply chain and we regions.
This type of product analysis helps strive to offer our customers, whether big us to focus our attention on areas where the 2 or small, the most appropriate sustainable greatest improvements in our carbon footprint solution for their product in order to minimise can be made.
Optimising Recyclability Determining the Environmental 1.
Raw material 67% Our desire to improve the performance of ImpactofPackaging Reduce weight the packaging we manufacture does not Recycled materials RPC is working with customers, suppliers endwhen the packaging leaves our sites.
New sustainable materials and external advisory organisations to We have also taken a proactive stance Rethink supply sources determine the environmental impact of a withcustomers in designing packaging number of packaging formats, primarily in the tooptimise recyclability and to ensure 2.
Production 27% form of a carbon footprint.
The main areas of end-of-life collection of packaging.
This Reduce electricity consumption focus for these studies have been cradle to helpsus to play our part in closing the loop Reduce waste gate, investigating areas which we directly inthe packaging lifecycle.
Reduce use of chemicals influence such as the impacts of the type of 3.
Transportation 6% Industry Participation raw material used and the manufacturing Distribution logistics process applied to the material, as well as the RPC has taken an active role as a member More products per pallet impact of transport to the distribution centre or partner with a number of organisations Product from round to square or customer.
One of the main advantages at the forefront of sustainable packaging.
of plastic packaging is that it provides a Not only are they a platform for us to keep lightweight solution which often provides up to date on developments in the latest alower carbon footprint in comparison field, but they also allow us to offer our withalternative packaging materials.
expertise in manufacturing to these groups, to improve current processes and develop The Group has developed a CO2 calculator pioneering technologies such as the use of for injection moulded products which is post consumer recycled plastic in packaging.
certified by the Carbon Trust.
From benchmark Our efforts in the sustainability field have calculations using this tool we have been recognised through our inclusion determined the stages of the lifecycle under intheFTSE4Good listing.
our control that have the highest environmental impact.
As shown in the pie chart the highest Over the past year we have participated area of impact in terms of CO2e emissions is through membership or partnership with the raw material stage, followed by production thefollowing organisations: the conversion of the raw material into a Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Managing our direct environmental impacts Improving Energy Efficiency Investments such as those outlined above Electricity usage per tonne kWh t have allowed the Group to achieve a year on Approximately two-thirds of the carbon year reduction in kWh tonne over the past footprint of our products is from the raw few years with a 3% reduction achieved this materials we use.
Our first point of focus is year in comparison to last year.
Since a Group 2,005 to utilise these materials as efficiently and 1,856 1,864 energy efficiency project was set up five 1,837 1,788 economically as possible.
The remaining years ago the Group energy use per tonne one-third is embedded in the energy required hasfallenby 11%.
at the processing stage when we convert plastic granules or flake into packaging.
Carbon Reporting Plastic packaging manufacturing, by its Through the British Plastics Federation, nature, is energy intensive.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 theGroups UK manufacturing sites have We are constantly working to improve the entered into a Climate Change Agreement Electricity usage per tonne energy efficiency of our manufacturing which sets carbon targets based on energy Electricity usage per tonne is the ratio of electricity used tothe number of tonnes produced.
We have been working on a use at the sites.
Our UK sites also qualify number of energy efficiency projects over for inclusion in the Governments Carbon theyear ranging from high investment Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency projectsto minor site alterations.
For example: Scheme CRC but have been granted an exemption due to the Climate Change Water usage per tonne L t RPC Cobelplast in Lokeren, Belgium, has Agreement already in place.
installed an automated wrapping and palletisation system for its finished sheet Improving Water Efficiency goods.
Not only has this streamlined the Water is an important part of the manufacturing 967 935 process resulting in an energy saving, 825 process, primarily as a cooling agent.
769 thereis also a resource efficiency saving 706 Anumber of improvements have been ashalf the amount of shrink wrap is required madeacross the Group to reduce water to protect the finished product.
usageor to re-use it within a closed-loop RPC Cobelplast Montonate, Italy, has system which reduces evaporation losses.
benefited from the installation of a stateAs a result of these actions, water use in the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 of-the-art extrusion line which reduces Group has progressively declined over the energy consumption considerably as well last five years by 27%, with an 8% reduction Water usage per tonne as producing food grade plastic sheet having been achieved over the last 12 months.
Water usage per tonne is the ratio of water used to the number of tonnes produced.
from recycled materials in a single step, Waste and Recycling bypassing the need for a pelletising process.
Polymer is a valuable resource and our RPC Bebo Troyes, France, has relocated to sites operate at a high efficiency in terms of new modern premises which has allowed salvaging raw materials.
Any material that the site to reduce energy consumption and cannot be re-used is segregated and collected redesign the plant to maximise efficiency.
The same applies to many other Measures taken included alteration in layout materials that we handle such as scrap metal, so that fork lift trucks are not required in the cardboard boxes tubes, wooden pallets and production area, installation of lifting tables shrink wrap.
We are making good progress and an air treatment system to maintain onthe reduction of waste disposal.
RPC Group Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Managing our social impacts Health and Safety For the first time this year RPC ran a Reportable accident freqency rate Group-wide event RPC Safety Week Incident reporting involving all employees with the objective During 2011 all sites across the Group of increasing awareness and engagement 1,803 1,781 responded to the challenge of improving 1,695 in reducing accidents.
RPC Safety Week their health and safety performance.
This 1,491 involved a permanent, positive safety related 1,389 hasresulted in the Reportable Accident change on every site and featured health and Frequency Rate RAFR reaching its lowest safety training for employees, safety tours level since measurement and reporting began.
by senior managers and Board members, The number of major accidents reduced to a competitions and events with the emphasis new low of 12, a further improvement of 8% on the involvement of every employee.
The 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 compared with the previous year despite the week was a great success and will become enlarged size of the Group.
The total number an annual event with the objective of building Reportable accident frequency rate ofreportable accidents rose by only 2%, which on our safety culture.
Some of the events that Reportable accident frequency rate is defined as the numberof accidents resulting in more than three days included the Superfos businesses.
Slips, trips took place around the Group included: off work, excluding accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work, divided by the average and falls remain the most significant cause of RPC Tedeco-Gizeh ran a Safety Week numberofemployees, multiplied by the constant 100,000. accidents across the Group, in common with postercompetition which was open many industries, and will continue to be the tothechildren of all employees.
The results continue to be encouraging with subject of focus.
30out of the 40 sites achieving the highest At RPC Kutenholz every employee was Safety Awareness Blue rating, a 9% improvement over the given a T-shirt with the slogans Safety previous year despite the increased demands Health and safety awareness continues to Comes First Sicherheit ist Trumpf and of the audit.
Superfos sites were also introduced be at the heart of our approach to reducing Safety Starts With Me Sicherheit fngt bei to the system in a campaign of pre-audits incidents.
In particular, the RPC Safety Intranet mir an.
Colleagues were asked to submit under the same set of requirements and with continues to grow as a means of sharing suggestions for improving safety on the site.
some achieving the Blue grade.
best practice across the Group and alerting Advice sessions on fire prevention, first colleagues of hazards and how to guard Future Health and Safety Plans aid and health and safety in the workplace against them.
Access to the intranet has wereheld across the Group.
We are making safety shoes compulsory at all beenextended and every cluster contributes sites in manufacturing and warehousing areas.
The intranet has Focusing on Transport Accidents Furthermore, every site General Manager will beena primary tool in the integration of the The Group focused on work place transport be required to review and take part in accident Superfos businesses whose employees accidents during the year, changing internal investigations including measures to prevent havebrought new ideas to the Group.
rules governing the use of fork lift trucks.
This the incident reoccurring, with a report being has resulted in an 80% reduction in reportable made to the Chief Executive.
Safety Week accidents involving workplace vehicles.
Willis-RPC Blue Safety Programme RPC sets out its required standards in health and safety systems, leadership and performance every year in its Willis-RPC Blue Safety programme.
A three day training event was held to inform employees from each of our sites of the Groups requirements in order to ensure that progress is made in this area.
An annual audit measured the performance ofsites against these standards.
Once RPC Tedeco-Gizeh ran a Safety Week again, the standards have been increased poster competition which was open to the with greater emphasis on systematic and children of all employees.
comprehensive application of procedures which are known to improve safety.
General Manager David Lowe is pictured with the winner and winning entry.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Ethics Employees Safety Week The Group aims to act responsibly and with Training and development integrity, respecting the laws and regulations Employees are provided with training in of all the countries within which it operates orderto give them the necessary skills to as well as internationally accepted standards perform their duties and where appropriate of responsible business conduct.
We require todevelop those skills and progress their high standards of professional and ethical career.
The Group invests in a range of conduct from all employees, officers and development activities including NVQs directors.
These policies are set out in a Code and apprenticeship schemes and supports of Business Conduct which can be read in full otherprofessional and technical training.
Across the Group employees have achieved qualifications in a variety of technical, Each business within the Group is expected engineering and other skills.
to operate with policies and procedures RPC Chief Executive Ron Marsh receiving which are consistent with our values and Work experience an explanation of the safety standards standards.
In all dealings, all employees and The Group provides appropriate work-place at RPC Kutenholz by General Manager other persons acting on behalf of the Group and career development for its employees Andreas Khnen.
are expected to: through its sites in response to their operational requirements.
This is accomplished using a engage in honest and ethical conduct, range of methods including apprenticeship Quality Management including the ethical handling of actual programmes.
For example, RPC Llantrisant, or apparent conflicts of interest between It is Group policy to maintain accreditation Wales, offered work experience to first year personal and professional relationships: to the quality management standard ISO apprentices from a local college under the 9001 and operating units are encouraged maintain effective procedures to prevent Welsh Assembly Governments Pathways to to gain accreditation to any specific confidential information being misused or Apprenticeship scheme as well as recruiting standards required by the markets served used for personal gain: two second year apprentices to complete or by customers such as the British Retail theirapprenticeships.
advance the legitimate interests of the Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC Group, having regard to the Groups values Communicating with our staff IOP Food Packaging Standard.
Currently and standards, as set out in the Code: The Group established a European Works operating units with 97% of the Groups Council in 1998 which meets once a year.
turnover have ISO 9001 accreditation and 24 comply with all applicable laws, rules and Asteering committee also meets four times operating units have BRC IOP accreditation.
regulations in every country in which the a year.
The European Works Council brings Group operates: Community Investment together employee representatives from treat customers fairly, openly and honestly: across the Groups operations to discuss The Board supports initiatives by operating business matters with senior managers units to contribute to their local community.
be intolerant of discrimination, harassment within the Group including Board members.
Staff participate in a variety of local activities or victimisation: This involves the provision of information including projects with local schools, charity maintain high standards of integrity in concerning the Group, consultation and events and factory open days.
The Group business relationships with suppliers: and discussions.
In addition there are national policy on donations is to support local andsite-based works councils or employee educational and charitable causes, and encourage the use of those suppliers forums that discuss local business matters.
inparticular those where employees and who operate with values and standards theirfamilies are involved in the fundraising.
An employee newsletter Perspectives is issued regularly in five languages.
Employees The Group does not employ child or forced are encouraged to make their views known labour in any of its operations.
A child tothe directors and senior management is as defined in the International Labour oftheGroup.
Dealings with Customers and Suppliers The Group adopted an anti-bribery policy during the year in response to the Bribery The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its Act 2010 and delivered a training programme relationships with customers and suppliers, to to its senior managers and other relevant provide customers with standards of product employees.
Anti-bribery procedures have and service that have been agreed and to pay been developed and are now monitored suppliers and subcontractors onagreedterms.
