Corporate & Social RESPONSIBILITY RPS has supported TREE AID for over 7 years with charitable contributions for some of Africas poorest rural communities to succeed in the fight against poverty and the effects of climate change.
Corporate & Social RPS conducts business in a responsible, safe and sustainable manner, through effective interaction with our clients and suppliers, the wider community and the environment.
RESPONSIBILITY Our people TREE AID RPS supports TREE AID through donations to Only by paying full regard to some of Africas poorest regions and is its leading the welfare and development corporate sponsor.
of all our staff, can we expect to reach and maintain Our contributions to TREE AID in 2012 and the level of service that we 2013, have supported projects to the value of believe is essential to our 2m, helping communities in Africa become more continued success.
RPS is proud of its continued support of people and the environment in the fight against poverty.
Our clients The aim of TREE AIDs Bongo River Trees project, We conduct business to which was launched on 24 January 2012, is to break the highest standards.
Our the cycle of environmental decline and poverty in continued reputation and one of the poorest traditional communities integrity is essential for us to The Bongo Districts Queen Mother in Africa.
present to regulatory bodies at the launch of the Bongo River and government agencies on Trees project.
According to TREE AID, progressive deforestation, behalf of our clients.
soil erosion, soil fertility decline and the increased seasonal flooding and landscape aridity of recent years can be combated very successfully at Our shareholders community level with the right education, community The Group conducts its ownership, community volunteers TREE AID has operations in accordance over 50,000 and the strategic deployment of trees, with the principles of good shrubs and vetiver grasses.
Key to the strategy is corporate governance.
the establishment of protected tree corridors and Our aim is to provide agroforestry zones along the Nabakulga, Akulpielga shareholders with a long and Akorisi river corridors north of the Vea Dam.
term return on investment RPS has not only pledged the budgeted funding for that rewards their financial the Bongo River Trees project but is providing advice commitment.
and support on erosion risk mapping: land cover and land use mapping using remote sensing and biodiversity baseline mapping and monitoring.
Palakaye Villagers proudly show off their shea nuts harvest.
Cover image: Danakil Basin, Ethiopia.
RPS is a leader in potash exploration techniques and has recently assisted a client with potash delineation studies in the Danakil region.
RPS Group Plc 20 Western Avenue, Milton Park Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4SH T 44 0 1235 863206 rpsgroup.
com Registered in England No.
