Corporate Responsibility Commitment The Groups corporate governance policies are described in detail elsewhere in the Report and Accounts and provide a framework within which it can look to achieve attractive levels of return for its shareholders whilst striking a balance between this objective and recognition of its obligations to its employees, clients and society in general.
The Corporate Governance Committee exercises general oversight in relation to environmental, social and governance ESG matters although in the normal course of business the Board and the Executive Committee assess the risks and opportunities to which such issues give rise.
In the Boards view it has adequate information to enable the proper assessment of these issues.
As noted in the Risk Management section of this report environmental issues are most likely to effect the Group through the impact material adverse events may have on the Groups trading.
Whilst given the nature of its activities the Groups own impact on the environment is comparatively modest, the Groups performance is monitored as outlined below and appropriate action to minimise impact taken where possible.
The Group can, however, make a greater contribution to the environment through its own expertise and many of the projects with which it is involved.
The Group advises international bodies, governments, local authorities and companies on the improvement of environmental performance.
Projects include the development of strategies to reduce carbon emissions as well as the adaptation of buildings and infrastructure to anticipate climate changes.
The policies adopted by the Group in relation to employees are described elsewhere in this report and those relating to health and safety are described below: the risks associated with failures in both of these areas are described in the Risk Management section on pages 8 and 9.
The Group recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of business conduct and contributing to the communities with which it is involved as detailed below.
In the Boards view the challenges, risks and opportunities created by ESG issues as outlined in the Report and Accounts are unlikely to change significantly in the foreseeable future.
The Group remains a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index, which consists of those companies that satisfy a set of globally recognised standards in the area of corporate responsibility.
It is also a participating member of the Carbon Disclosure Project providing data on an annual basis.
Standards of Business The Group aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business.
Through codes of conduct employees are required to adopt high standards of behaviour in their daily professional roles or when travelling on business.
Employees are also required to be sympathetic to the cultures of and comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate, as well as giving due regard to the safety, the well being and the human rights of all project personnel and relevant local communities.
All RPS employees must avoid personal or professional activities and financial interests that could conflict with their responsibilities to the Group.
If a conflict of interest does arise then this must be acknowledged and reported.
Employees must not seek personal gain from third parties, or abuse their position within the Group for personal gain: the Group has a policy of zero tolerance towards acts of bribery.
Health and Safety The health and safety of the Groups employees and others we affect is of paramount importance and we remain committed to good practice that as a minimum complies with the requirements of law.
The Board receives and considers a report relating to health and safety at all regular meetings.
The Board also sets the overall framework and standards for the management of health and safety the implementation of which is overseen by the Company Secretary.
Within this context each of the Groups businesses is responsible for the development of appropriate safe working conditions and systems to protect employees, contractors, visitors and others who may be affected by the Groups activities.
Each business has appropriately qualified health and safety advisors to develop and implement these systems.
Health and safety performance is reported to and reviewed by the Board as well as at operating company level.
Each business within the Group has a system for reporting and investigating accidents, dangerous occurrences and work-related diseases.
All such incidents are investigated to determine the root cause.
Any significant incidents are reported within the Group as a whole and specifically brought to the attention of the Board.
Where appropriate work activities are assessed for health and safety risks and appropriate controls put in place.
Health and safety systems are subject to regular audit.
All employees are trained to ensure that they have the appropriate skills to carry out their job safely.
Senior management are trained to ensure that obligations to employees for whom they are responsible are properly discharged.
OHSAS 18001 is an internationally recognised standard for health and safety management that is aligned with the ISO 9000 Quality Management and ISO 14000 Environmental Management standards.
32% of employees across the Group work in offices that now have third party accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
Report and Accounts 2012 12 Business Review During the year the Group was neither prosecuted for the breach of health safety regulations nor subject to any investigation by regulatory authority.
In 2012, the reportable accident rate was 2.7 accidents per 1,000 employees 2011: 2.3.
Accidents that do occur most commonly relate to manual handling activities, slips and falls.
Reportable Accident Rates Group 2012 2011 Reportable injuries 14 12 Reportable injuries incident rate per 1,000 employees 2.7 2.3 Community Involvement RPS has supported a range of community and charitable initiatives with gifts in kind and financial contributions throughout the year, mostly at office level.
In 2012 the Group and its staff gave or raised 797,000 in charitable contributions 2011: 438,000.
Taking into account the 168,000 spent on academic bursaries and educational initiatives 2011: 250,000, the total contribution of the Group and its employees to the communities in which it operates was 965,000 2011: 688,000.
Tree Aid The Group has for a number of years been an active supporter of Tree Aid and its programme of education, tree planting and woodland conservation programmes in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Group has increasingly focused its charitable contribution upon its work and is acknowledged as being Tree Aids largest corporate sponsor, having contributed a total of 153,000 towards projects in Ghana and Mali in 2012.
The Group has also committed further funding of 210,000 over the next two years.
In addition to its financial support the Group has been able to utilise the skills of its employees to make an increasingly important technical contribution to Tree Aids work.
This has seen a number of employees working on the ground with Tree Aid and has included soil erosion mapping, a biodiversity study and GIS mapping of relevant geographic features.
Both Tree Aid and RPS are grateful for the important contribution these employees have made.
We are proud to have further developed our association with this award winning work that assists some of Africas poorest rural communities to succeed in the fight against poverty and the effects of climate change.
Environmental Management and Climate Change Although as a consultancy organisation our impact on the environment is comparatively moderate, the Group seeks to keep this to a minimum through the adoption of appropriate standards and the setting of specific targets.
The Group endeavours to: n comply with all relevant national and regional legislation as a minimum standard: n comply with codes of practice and other requirements such as those specified by regulators and our clients: n utilise suppliers that offer products which are sustainable, recyclable or environmentally sensitive wherever practicable and economic: n promote practical energy efficiency and waste minimisation measures: and n provide a shared inter-office IT network together with communications and video conferencing technology that reduces the need for business travel.
To achieve these objectives appropriate training is provided to enable activities to be conducted in an environmentally sensitive manner and sufficient management resources are allocated to enable effective implementation of policies.
Appropriate parts of the Group have achieved ISO14001, the internationally recognised environmental management system standard.
Facilities for recycling office waste are in place at our offices.
During 2012 our offices continued to recycle waste paper, spent toner and ink cartridges, obsolete computer hardware, printers and mobile phones.
Proceeds from this recycling are donated to charity.
The carbon footprint for RPS in 2011, recalculated in accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol and current Defra guidance amounted to 20,168 tonnes.
Calculated on a similar basis the overall carbon footprint decreased to 19,584 tonnes in 2012.
This small decrease reflects the fact that the company operations were relatively consistent with previous years and demonstrates the continued success of efficiency programmes.
The specific target set by the Board is to reduce energy consumption per capita by 5% per annum for office energy consumption.
This target was not quite achieved in 2012 with office gas and electricity consumption decreasing by 3% over the prior year from 3.5 MwH to 3.4 MwH per employee.
The target was set in 2008 and in each year since, with the exception of 2009 when restructuring within rpsgroup.
com 13 the Group resulted in an increase, a decrease either marginally above or below it has been achieved.
As previously our ability to sustain improvement will be dependent on economic circumstances: the continuing uncertain environment in which we operate means that the structure of our businesses may be affected in ways that make the achievements of our targets more challenging.
The Groups policies and objectives for environmental management are reviewed from time to time in the light of changes within the Groups businesses, new legislation and emerging practice.
As an environmental consultancy the Group is fully cognisant of the mandatory carbon reporting regulations that will apply to companys listed on the London Stock Exchange and which will apply to the Group for the financial year ending 31 December 2013.
To the limited extent necessary the Groups reporting for that year will be adjusted to fully reflect the new obligations.
