46 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainable development Generating inclusive growth SABMiller has become one of the worlds leading brewers by building strong local businesses that contribute to their local economies.
We seek to generate inclusive growth: creating long-term returns by building value chains that drive economic growth and stimulate social development while using scarce natural resources efficiently.
Economic contribution across our value chain ofouroperations and the fiscal impact these have Water to lager ratio Beer is a local product typically brewed, sold and on the countries in which we do business.
hl water hl lager consumed in the same community.
By delivering 4.6 high-quality products that consumers enjoy, our The groups presence in many developing economies 4.5 4.3 4.2 4.0 businesses create jobs, pay taxes, develop local provides major sources of employment and income skills and encourage enterprise.
Of the taxes we pay, 77% go to governments in emerging and developing In the year, SABMiller generated US$23,921 million countries and 23% are paid in developed economies.
of economic value, of which the majority was distributed through the course of our business The growing resource challenge toour employees, shareholders and investors, This year, two of our fastest-growing regions were 08 09 10 11 12 suppliers and governments, as well as to local the emerging and developing markets of Africa and communities through our corporate social Latin America, which saw lager volumes increasing investment activities.
on an organic basis by 13% and 8% respectively.
The growth of middle class consumers from two 1 Across our value chains we seek opportunities tofive billion worldwide by 2030, with improved tobuild our local supply chain.
In our developing incomes and enhanced quality of life, is a key driver markets we are working to build the capability of of our future growth.
local farmers in order to increase local sourcing.
InAfrica, research by Professor Ethan Kapstein Beer is a local product typically ofINSEAD, and other experts, indicates that our brewed, sold and consumed in the commitment to increasing the local sourcing of same community.
rawmaterials to 50% over the next two years will raise the number of direct farming jobssupported That said, the demands that this growth will place by our operations from 100,000 to150,000.
on the worlds finite resources mean that business, 5% government and civil society must work together This year we published a number of independent todevelop practical, local solutions that generate Water to lager ratio studies to assess our socio-economic impact.
inclusive growth while conserving water and energy InEurope, for example, a recent study by Ernst down5% to 4.0 hl hl and managing land use.
Successfully addressing &Young found that a total of 202,000 jobs can be the triple challenge of water, food and energy attributed to the production and sale of our beers security means taking a holistic view and including over 98,000 in the hospitality sector balancingthe many competing demands, alone.
For each person employed by SABMiller trade-offs andinteractions.
inEurope, 17jobs are generated outside the brewing industry.
Businesses such as ours are well placed to innovateand drive efficiencies.
We have extensive We recognise there is a growing interest in the programmes in place to improve water and energy amount of tax paid by multinational companies.
efficiency and reduce waste across our breweries.
Weseek to be fully transparent in our tax returns and related disclosures torevenue authorities.
The water efficiency of our lager operations has Wehave a strong governance process andour improved by 5% over the last year, and 13% since group tax policy guides the way we manage tax we set our target to reduce water consumption by affairs across the group.
The corporate tax charge 25% by 2015 in 2008. for the year was US$1,126million an effective taxrate of 27.5%.
Across our operations we aim to become 50%morecarbon-efficient by 2020.
Our carbon In the year total taxes borne and collected by emissions from fossil fuel use have reduced by thegroup amounted to US$9,400 million 2011: 10%per hectolitre of lager produced this year, US$8,400 million.
This includes excise taxes, 1 The emerging middle class in andby 17% since we set our target in 2008. transactional taxes and taxes borne by employees developing countries, HomiKharas, InIndia, converting fossil fuel boilers to biomass OECD Development Centre Working as well as our share based on equity interest of across three breweries has reduced the emissions Paper No.
Middle taxes paid by our US joint venture.
We consider associated with boiler fuel in these three plants class is defined as having daily per thiswider calculation to be an important and capita spending of US$10 to US$100.
by90% since 2008. appropriate indication of the tax contribution Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 47 Impala Origin: Mozambique First brewed: 2011 www.
com Impala is the worlds first commercial-scale cassava-based beer.
Brewed using 70% cassava sourced from smallholder farmers in Mozambique creating new employment for over 1,500 smallholder farmers and their families.
Impala uses conventional brewing techniques and has a crisp, refreshing taste.
We continue to drive down brewery waste excise category for beer made from cassava.
andimprove the sustainability of our packaging.
This, combined with the reduced production costs 10% Forexample, in the past year in Italy, Birra Peroni associated with using a local crop, enables us to Fossil fuel emissions reduced the weight of its Peroni Gran Riserva sell Impala at 70% of the price of mainstream lager, 330ml bottle by 40% from 310g to 185g, saving attracting consumers who might otherwise from energy use at our 750 tonnes of glass and about 600 tonnes of consume illicit alcohol.
breweries down 10% CO ea year.
2 to12.4 kgCO e per hl In South Africa we are a strategic partner in Project 2 Building strong partnerships Promote, working with SABCOHA South African We devote great care and effort to building alliances Business Coalition on HIV and AIDS and The throughout our value chain, and recognise that Global Fund to deliver condoms to taverns through partnerships are crucial to our success.
Since the start ofthe project 18 months ago, just under 8.5 million Focusing solely on improving efficiency at our condoms have been delivered to 4,600 taverns operations will not on its own secure adequate across South Africa, helping to avert an estimated long-term water, agricultural supplies, and energy 17,000 new HIV infections.
The resource challenges we jointly face with local communities are complex Beer in society andinterconnected.
We can only effectively tackle Each day our beers are enjoyed by millions these challenges by sharing knowledge and ofconsumers.
There is, sadly, a small minority CO e emissions from fossil working in partnership with experts from nonofconsumers who do not drink responsibly and 2 fuel energy used on site governmental organisations NGOs, governments who pose a risk to themselves, their families and kgCO e hl lager and academic institutions to deliver innovative their communities.
14.9 14.3 14.2 13.8 Alcohol abuse and associated societal issues 12.4 Our Water Futures partnership, established with suchas violence, drunk-driving, underage drinking WWF and the German development agency, GIZ, and the impact on non-communicable diseases isone example of a public-private partnership area cause of concern around the world.
Most devoted to managing shared water risk and to critically for SABMiller, the increasing focus by demonstrating the link between water, food and bothgovernments and NGOs on these social energy security.
This year we doubled the reach andhealth challenges is leading to increased ofthe partnership, extending to four new markets: regulatory intervention and a stronger expectation 08 09 10 11 12 Colombia, Honduras, India and the USA.
for businesses to play a greater role in leading actionto tackle these problems.
We devote great care and effort As a brewer we recognise that, along with the to building alliances throughout widercommunity, we have a role to play in tackling our value chain, and recognise alcohol abuse.
We have clear principles that guide the way we operate as a business, and we uphold that partnerships are crucial to high standards in all aspects of alcohol production our success.
We continue to build our affordability strategy in Our local businesses are committed to engaging Africa, based on locally sourced crops such as inpartnerships to encourage responsible drinking, sorghum and cassava.
This year in Mozambique remind consumers about the impact of alcoholwepartnered with DADTCO Dutch Agricultural related harm and address the wider societal Development and Trading Company to develop issuesresulting from alcohol abuse.
In Europe, for amobile processing unit that enabled us to launch example, we have implemented comprehensive the worlds first commercial-scale, cassava-based commitments to the EU Alcohol and Health Forum clear beer Impala.
In recognition of its contribution to provide information to consumers through to agricultural and economic development in packaging labels, marketing materials, online Mozambique the government introduced a new toolsand mobile apps.
Our vision A focused approach to sustainable To be the most admired company in development management the global beer industry Enterprise Alcohol Global focus areas Water development in responsibility our value chains Regional focus areas Energy carbon HIV Aids CSI Transparency Continual improvement Human rights Waste Packaging and ethics 48 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainable development continued Integrating sustainable development During the year, the groups average SAM score intobusiness planning increased from 2.9 to 3.2, with scores increasing 3.2 Sustainable development is integral to the way across all priorities as our local businesses focused The average score wedo business.
One of SABMillers four strategic on advancing the sustainable development issues priorities is to constantly raise the profitability most material to their particular markets.
More achieved against oflocal businesses, sustainably.
detailed information on our scores by country and ourSustainability priority can be found at www.
Assessment Matrix We structure the measurement of sustainable development through our 10 priorities, which Transparency and ethics was 3.2 informhow we focus our efforts and prioritise our High standards of ethical behaviour and resources.
At a global level particular focus is given transparency underpin all that we do.
We have to the three most material areas for our business: aCode of Business Conduct and Ethics which alcohol responsibility, water, and enterprise applies to all employees across the group as well development in our value chain.
It is these areas asthird parties acting on our behalf.
This year, that we believe have the greatest potential to impact westrengthened our anti-bribery procedures on business value, and create the greatest benefits byintroducing a new Anti-Bribery Policy, which for the communities in which we work.
supplements and builds on the requirements of Online theCode, and helps to ensure that we meet our For more information on our obligations under the new UK Bribery Act 2010.
We structure the measurement approachto sustainable development and ourperformance, go to our 2012 of sustainable development We place a high value on reporting and Sustainable Development Report through our 10 priorities, which communicating in an open and honest way to our atwww.
com stakeholders, and have produced a sustainable inform how we focus our efforts development report for over 10 years.
This year and prioritise our resources.
wecommissioned an independent report into thefuture of sustainability reporting, Multiple Our 10 sustainable development priorities Messages, which highlighted the need for a flexible, alsotakeinto account our commitment to the multi-channel approach to reporting.
Fifteen of UNGlobal Compact, as well as our support of ourbusinesses produce their own sustainability theUN Millennium Development Goals.
reports: Italy and Botswana produced reports for the first time, and many others provide information The group corporate accountability and risk online.
Botswanas report won Best Corporate assurance committee CARAC, a sub-committee Social Responsibility Reporter at the national ofthe SABMiller plc board, is responsible for  Annual Reporting Awards.
overseeing progress against our 10 sustainable development priorities.
Our Sustainability Assessment Matrix SAM provides a detailed assessment of sustainable development performance twice a year, which informs both business planning and corporate governance through our regional and group CARACs.
Stairway level assessment criteria Sustainable development group average scorecard 2012 Leading edge: 2010 2011 2012 5 Performance that represents genuine global leadership on an issue.
Best practice: 4 Achieving what is currently considered to beglobalbest practice in a particular field.
Developing leadership: 3 Applying a comprehensive approach including innovative tools and widespread engagement.
Progressing: 2 Ensuring consistent performance is achieved in a particular field.
Minimum standard: 1 All operations must achieve level 1, or have a plan in place to do so, as it represents management of our key sustainable development risks.
Alcohol Water Energy Packaging Waste Enterprise CSI HIV Aids Human TransOverall and and development rights parency Score carbon packaging and value and ethics waste chain management Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 49 Cusquea Origin: Peru First brewed: 1912 www.
pe Perus premium beer is brewed with the highest quality malt, yeast and hops to create excellent harmony in terms of aroma, body, bitterness and taste.
Cusquea retains the mystery and magic of its origin in Cusco and appeals to consumers who value the best brands.
Building a Zambian Managing shared Supporting small barley industry water risk in Peru retailers in Colombia Zambian Breweries has been Through the Water Futures The Bavaria Foundations working with farmers to build partnership SABMiller works Destapa Futuro programme aZambian barley industry.
with NGOs such as WWF is the largest private initiative and The Nature Conservancy promoting entrepreneurship Three years ago, our Zambian business in eight markets to protect in Colombia.
imported 100% of the barley needed for the watersheds on which itsbreweries.
It seeks to boost economic development ourbusiness depends.
across the country by supporting high With a climate that supports a strong potential entrepreneurs.
wheat industry, Zambian Breweries saw This year the local Water Futures an opportunity to build a national barley partnership in Peru undertook a series This year, the Bavaria Foundation has industry, improving the security of its ofstudies to examine the water resources been tackling one of the main barriers barley supply and reducing costs by available in the basins that supply each of tostarting a small business the lack sourcing locally.
The business developed Backus breweries.
The first, in the Rmac ofaccess to credit.
The Foundation partnerships with technical experts and river basin in Lima, identified a number of hasworked with local banks to provide built relationships within the established projects to improve water security for the micro-finance for shopkeepers so they can Zambian farming industry to design region.
Backus is now reviewing a number strengthen their businesses, increase their abarley farming model.
Working in of aquifer sustainability projects including: revenues and improve their quality of life.
collaboration with CHC Commodities, More than 4,000 shopkeepers have experts in crop storage and post-harvest Improving the infrastructure of canals benefited in two years with US$6 million management, in 2009 a successful pilot and river beds made available in micro-credit financing.
established the capability of farmers in Reusing treated water to irrigate public Zambia to produce a high-yielding, green areas such as parks Over the last five years the Bavaria high-quality crop.
Establishing a Rmac River Water Foundation has helped to create over Observatory an expert technical panel 280businesses through the Destapa Zambian Breweries now works with to monitor and assess the aquifer.
Futuro programme, supporting over 21commercial farmers, who employ 1,100entrepreneurs by investing over over4,000 rural workers.
The barley they Other local businesses and communities US$8 million in seed capital and US$2 produce is used in the production of the also depend on the watershed, and million for training and mentoring.
companys premium beer brands Mosi, Backus water risk cannot be addressed Mosi Gold, Castle Lager and Carling inisolation.
This year Backus became The investment, practical advice and BlackLabel.
afounding partner in the Aquafondo, mentoring provided means that 93% of established by The Nature Conservancy.
thebusinesses supported through the Despite the strong wheat price, against The fund which has an initial start-up programme arestilloperating.
which barley competes for acreage, capital of US$900,000 will invest in Zambian barley costs about US$100 conservation, water protection measures, In turn, the entrepreneurs who have pertonne less than imported barley.
education and communication projects in benefited from the programme have Lima.
Backus is working to encourage created over 5,000 jobs.
Next year, we expect the Zambian barley more businesses and institutions to join industry to produce a surplus of about the alliance, to safeguard shared water 10,000 tonnes, which can be exported supplies for the future.
tolocal markets such as Uganda and Tanzania.
