50 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 People Succeeding by valuing and empowering our employees We believe that a healthy, engaged, well-trained and motivated workforce is a key competitive advantage.
Being a flexible, fair and equitable employer the SABMiller plc board were female and women SABMiller employs some 70,000 people from currently comprise 33% of the independent diverse cultures and backgrounds across six non-executive directors on the board.
We aim to attract, develop and retain high-calibre people with the skills, attributes and We acknowledge our employees right to union drive to help SABMiller achieve its strategic representation and 36.4% of our workforce are objectives, both now and in the future.
Many of our businesses have 70,000 totreat all our employees and contractors fairly developed productive partnerships with trade We employ about andwith respect, and to provide a safe and unions on collective bargaining and other issues.
70,000 people across This year, independent experts reviewed our sixcontinents All our employees are compensated with a fair humanrights policies, procedures and performance wage and comprehensive benefits and have access measurement in light of the new UN Protect, to development opportunities both within their role Respect and Remedy framework for Business and towards career progression.
They found that, in general, weare ahead of many businesses in this respect, In many countries, we offer our employees free particularly in our independent assessments of medical healthcare if they need it.
In countries human rights issues across the value chain, for where HIV Aids is prevalent, our employees and example through the Oxfam Poverty Footprint their dependants have access to voluntary testing Report.
They also identified opportunities for and counselling, as well as managed healthcare improvement in areas such as verification of programmes including free anti-retroviral drugs.
In response, our global Asat 31 March 2012, our businesses in countries procurement company, Trinity, has joined SEDEX, ofhigh prevalence had 1,847 peer educators, anot-for-profit organisation promoting ethical onefor every 13 employees.
andresponsible business practices in global supplychains.
We have clear policies and processes relating to diversity and encourage a culture that respects In South Africa we actively support Broad-Based andtolerates individual differences.
Through the BBBEE ownership programme, SAB Zenzele, In an industry traditionally perceived as malewe have created almost 40,000 shareholders dominated, we have various initiatives for ensuring among our staff and retailers.
Retailers who better representation for women.
As at31 March acquired the minimum allocation of shares for R100 2012, a total of 19.0% of our employees were at the start of the programme in 2010 have, to date, female 2011: 19.5% and 27.8% of our executives received R875 in dividends, almost nine times their and managers were women.
Five of the last seven initial investment.
independent non-executive directors appointed to Promoting diversity at MillerCoors Secondly, they aim to provide a MillerCoors has been working supportive environment for personal to improve the advancement growth.
Every function has established of women in the company.
guidelines and principles to promote greater flexibility, introducing new ideas Women represent 20% of all vicesuch as telecommuting.
This year the president and executive level roles average number of training hours atMillerCoors.
To increase female completed by women also increased representation MillerCoors is taking byalmost 50%.
threesteps: Thirdly, women are encouraged to First, they are seeking to hire more sharetheir own experiences with others.
Recruiters are encouraged Since 2010, of the 115 women who have tolook for talented female candidates, participated in group mentoring, 36 were andthis year 62% of all candidate lists promoted and 30 made lateral moves to fornewhires included at least one develop broader or deeper skills.
During the year 83% of people hired through the Sales Management Development Program were women, creating a strong talent pipeline of womenfor senior roles in the future.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 51 Cascade Pure Origin: Australia First brewed: 2008 www.
au Cascade Pure has a light golden colour with a fresh hop aroma courtesy of locally-grown Tasmanian galaxy hops.
Being environmentally friendly matters more than low carbs, but this all malt lager offers both.
Pures carbon footprint is 100% offset, delivering a carbon neutral beer.
Safety, health and wellbeing of our employees Business success through high performance Each of our businesses is responsible for ensuring We recognise and reward strong performance.
asafe working environment in its breweries, bottling Every year, each employee sets stretching individual plants and offices.
This year we joined the World objectives in conjunction with their manager.
Economic Forums workplace wellness alliance, a Thesegoals are linked to local company objectives consortium of companies committed to advancing to ensure that everyone is contributing to, and wellness in the workplace.
We adapt ourwellness hasclear accountability for, the delivery of programmes to meet changing needs.
piloted a new Wellness Development Programme covering sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis B Bonus payments and salary increases are linked and C, malaria and tuberculosis in Botswana, South toperformance against individual goals and are Africa, Swaziland and Tanzania.
calculated against a combination of individual achievement and overall company performance.
We aim to provide a safe working environment inour breweries, bottling plants and offices and Promoting talent and personal development have robust systems, including regular audits, We aim to offer appropriate career development foridentifying and minimising the risk of accidents opportunities to all our employees and encourage andmonitoring and addressing incidents when them to take ownership of, and manage, their own theyoccur.
This year better reporting on health and development.
In the year ended 31 March 2012, we safety has resulted in noticeable improvements in provided an average of 4.0 training days for every health and safety performance inseveral markets employee, anincrease on the previous year.
4 days including Hungary, Italy and Uganda.
That said, we recorded 1,713 industrial injuries, 18% more than in Through our global learning strategy, we offer over 4 days of training per 2011, largely due to an increase in injuries reported 400 courses from specific functional programmes employee on average in Latin America in line with new reporting protocols.
to management development and leadership Across our business, we recorded 17,735 days lost programmes.
These range from e-learning courses through injury a 34% increase on 2011 also due to programmes facilitated by leading educational to improved reporting.
Our European Management Development Programme EMDP, for example, has been designed It is with regret that we report 11 employee and in partnership with Ashridge Business School.
Two of these related to quarter of participants in the 2010 programme were accidents while undertaking maintenance or repairs, promoted within one year, taking new knowledge and five related to accidents involving vehicles, and four innovative thinking into the business in their new roles.
related to robberies or assaults on our staff while on sales or trade visits.
Ineach case, we have undertaken an investigation and, where applicable, implemented measures to minimise the likelihood of such an incident recurring.
We have also established a group health and safety working group, which will report to the group CARAC.
Educating our employees on alcohol responsibility Alcohol, Behaviour and Communication We provide regular education AB&C training is designed for on alcohol responsibility for everyone at SABMiller.
our employees, all of whom Alcohol Intelligence Quotient AIQ provides additional in-depth training are required to adhere to our forpeople in marketing, sales, trade Alcohol Code of Conduct.
marketing, legal and communication functions globally.
As at 31 March 2012, our businesses had trained over 50,000 employees This year we introduced an online inalcohol responsibility worldwide.
refresher course, part of which asks Weare also committed to training all participants to make a personal pledge newemployees on alcohol responsibility onalcohol responsibility.
In Hungary we as they join SABMiller.
received 370 pledges from 400 e-learning participants in just one month, including We have developed a two-part, specially pledges about being a role model at work designed programme, which local and at home, and pledges to stop people businesses can adapt to address local from driving home if theyve been drinking circumstances: when out with friends.
