People and organisation A unique promise Our Guiding Principles Simplicity Whether it is software which is easy to use or support that is easy to access, simplicity is a key driver of our business.
Trust Our customers place important, confidential information in our hands so it is imperative that they fully trust us to deliver.
Integrity Whether providing reliable, high quality products or giving advice on business critical topics, integrity is critical to us when building long-term customer relationships.
Innovation We need to think ahead, to anticipate our customers needs and be creative in how we develop our software and services, continually innovating to improve the customer experience we deliver.
Agility We have to be responsive to customer needs and market changes and ensure we are agile enough to adapt our products and services to meet these demands.
How we change the way we Changing the way we work Our success has been built on our in-depth understanding work is about unlocking of customers, our exceptional service ethos and great people.
To keep ahead of the evolving market, we are changing the way we work not abandoning the strengths that come from our local growth at Sage by shifting heritage, but bringing a more global spirit.
This underpins our growth plans.
Our teams around the world will take more global responsibilities and work with each other with a strong, common a business with multiple purpose.
We will collaborate more closely across borders, reduce reinvention and leverage innovation from around the organisation.
histories to becoming a truly This means we can spend more time focusing on customers: and it is this closeness that has been the cornerstone of our success.
global organisation where The Employee Experience To build business confidence in our customers, we are nurturing a culture that inspires confidence.
In 2012 we began our journey we can better leverage scale to create a more common culture across Sage that has inner confidence at its heart and touches every touch point in our employee experience.
We believe that a culture of inner confidence and expertise and create is essential to hire the right talent and inspire our people.
The more engaged our people feel, the better they can support our efficiencies along the way customers.
We strive to give our people the tools, know-how and support that help them do a great job for our customers.
We want Karen Geary Group HR Director them to feel valued, challenged, fulfilled and above all understand the significant role they have in freeing up customers to achieve their business ambitions.
Group and central Employees Europe Americas AAMEA operations Total 2012 7,593 3,695 1,929 292 13,509 2011 7,685 2,753 1,785 166 12,389 The History of Payments mural illustrates Sage Pays vi sion perfectly: make life easier for businesses by giving them the tools to trade quickly and secure ly and together we will build a better future!
The mural starts from the left with early man dwelling in caves, through the romans and early coinage, the commercial revolution, twentieth century capitalism, through to where we are today: mobile payments and e-commerce.
The wider Sage business is reflected too as an enabler of business growth.
This mural was created by Joe Steele, graphic 42 designer for Sage Pay, pictured with the mural on the opposite page.
43 People and organisation continued Equipping our people Gender Our priorities focus on the following: At Sage we value the aims and objectives of The Davies Report on Women on Boards.
In considering appointments to the Board and Communication to senior executive positions, it is our policy to evaluate the skills, Our goals unite our people behind a common purpose: and cross experience and knowledge required by a particular role with due border collaboration is key to our success.
To facilitate global regard for the benefit of diversity on the Board and at senior communication, we have invested in Ciscos Telepresence and management level and make an appointment accordingly.
The WebEx capabilities in all our key locations.
Already we are seeing Board of Sage currently comprises 29% women and we would remote teams working seamlessly together and, at the same time, expect to maintain a similar balance through 2013 to 2015.
It is of reducing travel costs.
Our global enterprise platform, Open, is a the utmost importance to maintain strong leadership at Sage and collaboration tool providing a social network where everyone we will therefore continue to appoint only the most appropriate across Sage, regardless of their location, can talk, share, create candidates.
Our top leadership population is 24% female: the and innovate within teams.
majority of our core operating companies have top leadership teams in excess of 20% female: and 46% of our total workforce Leadership profile is female.
During 2012 we created a community called the Global Leadership Examples of some of the local gender specific-initiatives include Team, comprising our top 30 key leaders who are accountable for Spain with a Gender Diversity Plan to help ensure equality and driving our global priorities.
To support our new way of working, Portugals Womens Day celebration.
The UK has an Enterprise for we have introduced a common set of executive competencies Women network aimed at supporting and encouraging womens against which each will be measured in respect of their long-term career development which includes running networking events, capability, and their short-term performance and reward.
This is training sessions, bi-monthly newspapers and a Twitter account supported by systematic investment in their development, resulting with many followers.
Currently, in the UK, 39% of employees in true global succession planning.
A new global mobility policy are females with 35.5% of those in leadership positions.
Other enables us to move our talent around the globe, with over 40 highlights include North America, whose leadership teams have assignments in2012.
worked towards comprising 30% women, while in South Africa we have 62% female employees and 48% women in Accolades leadership teams.
We are proud to call ourselves much more than a software provider and our customer experience continues to be recognised.
Board diversity This year we earned the accolade of European Call Centre and Customer Service large Contact Centre of the year award.
29% In South Africa, we have won Best Companies to Work For 2012 2011 in our category for the second year in a row, and most recently Total Members 7 8 in North America Texas Best Company to Work For.
Women 2 2 Diversity % 29% 25% As a global company we aim to treat our people with dignity and respect.
We emphasise the importance of treating individuals in Top leadership diversity a non-discriminatory manner across the full employment lifecycle, including hiring, reward, development, promotions, mobility and 24% departure.
Training is provided to those making decisions on these 2012 2011 factors so that no individual is disadvantaged and to prevent Total Members 99 97 discrimination on the grounds of gender, religion, belief, race, Women 24 25 creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or marital % 24% 26% status.
In many of our operational companies we have guidelines to help our businesses meet the Group requirements and to manage diversity within the context of different national legislation Total workforce diversity and cultures.
At Sage we are proud of the various initiatives taking place globally related to gender, age, disadvantaged backgrounds, 46% disabilities and ethnic minorities.
These include internships, 2012 2011 apprenticeships, disability awards and targets: schemes to support Total Members 13,509 12,389 ethnic minorities and those with disadvantaged backgrounds.
Women 6,214 5,451 Highlights of which can be found in the Corporate Responsibility % 46% 44% section on page 45.
