Corporate Responsibility Acting responsibly Corporate Responsibility CR provides us with an opportunity to be a good citizen while supporting our Group-wide vision: to be recognised as the most valuable supporter of small and medium sized companies by creating greater freedom for them to succeed.
Our commitment to being a good corporate citizen is inherent in our Guiding Principles.
We are aware of our impact and seek to enhance the positive while minimising the negative.
Making a difference Our CR policy Everything we do in CR reflects our core strategic values, while Industry local legal standards are our absolute minimum.
We aim to leverage the unique trusted Our simple, pragmatic approach to CR focuses on areas that partner relationship that we have with mean the most to our business, our employees and our customers.
And we are always looking for innovative ways we can improve our customers globally to continue to our practices.
understand and support the issues and To make a real and positive contribution, we are committed to challenges that they face.
focusing on a few key areas where we believe we can make a difference.
Our policy is to set out high level expectations to ensure Community that the impact of our actions is at the heart of our business.
This provides our operating companies with the flexibility to select Our local communities are important to where they will invest resources locally, depending on what has the us and we actively support a number of most meaning and impact.
By thinking like a global business with charities and community organisations a strong local spirit, we can maximise the potential of our size and work within local communities responsibly and effectively.
worldwide in order to make a positive We share the best of what we do throughout our organisation impact on the communities in which and always aim to achieve best practice in the local context of we live andwork.
each country where we operate.
This flexible, continually updated approach serves us well, giving our business the freedom to Environment focus on whats important to both Sage and local customers.
We continue to analyse our impact on For example, in Spain we gave grants to four entrepreneurs to support them in new projects in technology and sustainability.
We remain committed entrepreneur received director level support for six months, training to reducing our energy consumption and on Sage business software, free space within the Spanish office related emissions, where possible, as well and tools to support them in their work.
as reducing our wider impacts such as Board reporting: The Company Secretary regularly updates the Board on CR risks and opportunities.
resource use and waste to landfill.
Ethics: Our Code of Ethics is integral to our organisation and we People continue to build on ways employees can anonymously report any concerns about bribery, fraud or corruption.
Our leadership signs a Our approach to our people is set out declaration relating to the Code of Ethics to make sure any on pages 42 to 44. additional business commitments or client and supplier relationships they may have are clear and transparent.
More For more on corporate responsibility Go to: www.
com ourbusiness aboutus  The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 45 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Corporate Responsibility Industry We work closely with our customers and pay attention to the issues that are important to their businesses we regard it as the cornerstone of our business philosophy.
Our focus on industry is at a local level, so we can understand and react to problems and opportunities our customers face every day.
Understanding issues small and medium sized Developing tomorrows business leaders businesses face Sages foundations are in entrepreneurism, and we are passionate about helping to create the entrepreneurs and the business leaders Our strength is our deep knowledge and understanding of our six of tomorrow.
million plus customers we know and understand them and never treat them all the same.
We have the largest footprint of small and To do this we encourage small businesses where we can.
For medium sized businesses globally and appreciate the different example, in the US we co-sponsor the SBA Small Business Week.
needs in our segments: start-up and small businesses, small and In South Africa we sponsor a small business award where medium sized businesses SMB, mid-market and accountants.
nominations for outstanding service come from local radio station Twice a year we carry out global research that gives us a clear listeners.
Sage South Africa also supports The Life College picture of the challenges our customers face.
Xchange, a non-profit educational centre which encourages the development of entrepreneurial skills.
Students launch their Our Sage Business Index International Business Insights is our own businesses and are judged on their innovation and profitability.
fourth comprehensive survey into the mindset of small and medium In North America, we gave free accounting software to 4,500 sized businesses around the world.
This bi-annual survey is the schools last year and in Malaysia we also gave free software largest yet, and includes responses from nearly 11,000 businesses to educational and non-profit organisations.
from a variety of sectors in 15 countries.
The report focuses on business confidence and the economy, Doing business each country as a place to do business, the role of government, More than ever, in an increasingly crowded market place, we need business challenges and the role of technology.
Its what we stand for and how we act and behave.
We pride ourselves on our For more information on The Sage Business Index, see page 26. integrity and professionalism in all our dealings with customers, Supporting local businesses and organisations suppliers and other third parties.
Our Guiding Principles and our Code of Ethics show that we do business responsibly and in line Helping non-profit organisations with free business software is an with all relevant laws and regulations as a minimum.
important part of what we do.
In North America we partner with TechSoup, a body which helps charities manage their operations.
With customers, we act with honesty, integrity and openness.
In the past year, we have given more than 1,000 organisations Customer data is handled sensitively and with respect, in a way software to the value of $459,000.
that meets the requirements of Data Protection laws in the countries in which we operate and ensures that it is safe and We also encourage our business partners to serve their local secure in our hands.
For example, all our operating companies communities through volunteering and charity work.
For example, policies as a minimum cover methods and safeguards to be every year in North America we select a partner for a Sage adopted to adhere to local Data Protection laws and regulations, Community Service Award.
a named person responsible for Data Protection issues and a We also provide valuable, free information to small businesses process for informing employees on steps necessary to ensure on how they can prepare for legislative change, such as the compliance with the policy and any training to be provided.
forthcoming changes to Pay as You Earn reporting in the UK.
Understanding and knowing our customers inside and out gives them reassurance that the basics are taken care of simply and safely so they can get on with growing their business.
46 Corporate Responsibility Community We want our involvement in local communities to be more than about business, so our Corporate Responsibility policy empowers each operating company to set their own targets and goals where they know locally that it will really make a difference.
No Group level requirements are set for Community.
This is because we truly want to make the communities in which we trade better places to be.
So, if we can make a positive contribution we will through fundraising, sponsorship or giving our time.
In Spain, our employees turned a major office move into an Giving our time opportunity to work with community groups in Barcelona.
They Organisations tell us that Sage volunteers are important to their donated old office furniture and equipment to charities and hired in business.
Our employees tell us that our volunteering programme catering services from a foundation that employs disabled people.
is a chance to share their skills and experience with charities or local bodies that reflect our commitment to education, the Investing in young people community and the environment.
It is also a personal development Supporting young people often from disadvantaged backgrounds opportunity for our people, some of whom take extra paid leave to is an important focus for us.
We concentrate on their education and volunteer.
In North America for example, Employee Volunteer Day helping them with vital life and business skills.
Benefit is offered so our people can take a day off to volunteer for a local charity.
111 people exercised their right to a volunteer day We provide educational bursaries across our locations.
We also this year which amounted to a total of 850 hours donated.
design and run internal undergraduate and internship programmes to give young people the chance to succeed academically while In Europe, volunteering in Spain takes place during working hours considering their careers.
and the UK offers our people two days per year to volunteer.
This year, UK staff gave more than 3,800 hours to many good causes, This year in Poland we sponsored a competition for gifted young including 1,000 hours working with more than 200 children as part scientists concentrating on algorithms and computer science.
of the Right to Read literacy programme.
In Spain, we ran a summer training programme to introduce unemployed 16 to 24-year-olds to the workplace, and also Helping charities supported e-skills week, where 13-year-old students visited Every year our employees all around the world take the same day the office and learned about future career skills.
every July to celebrate Sage Day.
The day is an opportunity to In South Africa, our people volunteer their time to help to equip raise money for charity and get involved in local communities school children from disadvantaged backgrounds with essential life where they work.
and business skills before they leave school.
We also work closely In the UK alone, employees raised 60,000 for a national cancer there with a local charity involved in six of the most impoverished charity.
In North America, employees again gave through our communities to help disadvantaged and vulnerable children.
Giving is Living payroll programme last year.
Sage matched their Investing in young people is also an important focus for our UK contributions by 50% to give a total of $93,810 to charities.
Our teams, where 12 apprentices aged between 17 and 20 years old North America employees also support local charities close to are working in the business to help them learn essential their offices through initiatives including food bank volunteer businessskills.
programmes and working in local schools.
As well as raising funds, sometimes a relatively small effort can make a big difference.
For example, our US and Canada employees gave away nearly 4,000 unwanted pieces of business clothing to local charity donation centres.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 47 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview 3,538 3,844 3,861 4,928 4,475 4,676 3,870 4,146 4,826 4,909 4,969 5,721 16,897 16,890 16,154 18,636 20,787 22,417 Corporate Responsibility Environment Our aim is to reduce the energy our business uses and make the most of recycling opportunities.
Our operating companies can choose to focus where they feel they can have the greatest impact, while complying with local laws as a minimum.
Sage continues to take part in the global Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent non-profit organisation focusing on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable water use by business and cities.
We are also a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
All our operating companies are focused on ways to reduce their Data on carbon emissions environmental impact locally.
In the US, we reduced electricity by We work hard to keep down our carbon footprint by raising consolidating servers or installing virtual ones, using one dedicated awareness among our employees to reduce energy and water server location for associated ventilation and air conditioning on site.
use, minimise travel and by switching to green energy suppliers wherever possible.
We continue to monitor our carbon footprint The UK installed LED lighting which uses 75% less energy.
Motion and have published data on our carbon emissions since 2009. sensors were installed in car parks so electric lights turn off when This year we recorded a carbon footprint of 24,493 tonnes CO not in use.
We continue to highlight energy efficient measures 2 equivalent, achieving a reduction of 4.8% compared with 2011. during office re-fits.
In Spain, two new intelligent offices also exploit natural light and reduce the use of gas and electricity.
The During 2012 we installed Telepresence equipment at key locations air con system works with water instead of gas and there are to work collaboratively while reducing the need to travel.
In sectored spaces for more efficient energy use.
Light, temperature addition, we have signed a Group-wide WebEx deal which enables and humidity levels are measured twice a month in common zones us to work globally on Instant Messenger and meetings with up to control optimum efficiency and low consumption.
Open, our global enterprise platform, also provide hot water to the building.
In Australia, window tinting is enables our employees to work in virtual teams and reduces applied to reduce heating and air conditioning requirements.
Total CO emissions from energy in nearest 2 Sage Groups global carbon footprint from whole tonnes energy tCO e 2 2012 2011 Scope 1 gas 6% Europe 9,621 9,795 Scope 2 electricity 94% North America 9,295 10,885 AAMEA 5,577 5,044 Total 24,493 25,725 2011 North American data has been restated to align with more accurate emissions factors used for the Canadian and US operations this year.
Scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions are measured from the electricity and gas consumption paid for, together with the emissions factors provided by the UKs Department for Energy and Climate Change DECC in order to calculate our carbon footprint from this usage.
It is our policy to report on offices with more than 25 Sage employees.
This excludes companies acquired during the year.
Reducing waste MWh of energy used within Sage business We look for ways to promote recycling and the use of recycled 2010 materials, as well as increase electronic materials to reduce print 2011 2012 and packaging.
Open, our global enterprise platform, means we can store vital content electronically, so it is accessible to those who need it wherever they are located.
During 2012, the number of Open users increased by 88%, and there are 1,100 active teams across Sage.
Most of our software user guides are also now online and we continue to reduce the use of paper wherever we can.
We are making progress in cutting down on our in-house waste and, this year, we have achieved zero waste to landfill at our Newcastle headquarters.
In South Africa, employees have to enter a PIN to print documents and payslips are emailed.
The target is to progress to a paperless environment, and all recyclable paper goes to Afrika Tikkun, a local charity that works with children.
North America eliminated printing of an additional 15,000 downloaded documents, while the Sage Summit Tote bag replaced paper again in 2012.
There have been many good initiatives around Sage, for example in the US we have tested a paper towel dispenser that conserves waste and re-uses waste products and the UK is harvesting used water for use on gardens and flower beds.
North UK & France Spain South America Ireland Africa 48 Other countries
