Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility Achieving our vision to be the worlds greatest Our approach to managing our responsibilities service company requires us to work in the right is summarised below.
We also publish way and to meet our responsibilities to customers, a CR report each year, which is available the public, our employees, partners and suppliers.
com cr2012 As a result, corporate responsibility CR is part of who we are and how we behave.
Further information available online www.
com Managing corporate responsibility O the Group Director of Risk and Acquisitions sponsors our health, safety Our approach to CR has five elements our people, health and safety, and environment HSE strategy.
This is based on the four divisional the communities we serve, the environment and our marketplace, where strategies plus a group perspective, which considers emerging HSE we carefully manage our relationships with our customers, suppliers and risks and the Groups evolving HSE risk prole.
The HSE Oversight other parties.
Group, which is made up of senior corporate function members and HSE leads from the four divisions, agrees the HSE strategy before The Serco Group plc board has ultimate responsibility for our Group it is submitted to the Group Risk Management and Safety Committee business strategy and therefore approves the elements that make up GRMSC.
The GRMSC reviews the HSE strategy and monitors our our Group CR strategy.
The Chief Executive is the board sponsor for performance at its quarterly meetings.
The chair of the GRMSC reports all elements of CR and the board receives formal progress reports and presents the HSE strategy to the Executive Committee.
O our Chief of Staff is the Executive Committee sponsor for our community The Executive Committee is responsible for delivering our Group strategy.
This strategy is developed through a CR Oversight Group.
Each element of our CR approach has its own strategy, The community strategy is then reviewed and monitored by the which is developed as follows: Executive Committee.
O the Group HR Director sponsors our people strategy, which is O our approach to the marketplace falls within our overall business developed through the HR Directors Forum.
The forum is made up of strategy, for which the Chief of Staff is responsible.
The business divisional HR directors and other senior corporate function members, strategy consolidates the divisions business strategies into an and meets regularly under the Group HR Directors chairmanship.
overall Group strategy, as described on pages 14 and 15.
66 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Each division has a CR strategy, which describes the core themes and appropriate targets.
This strategy is monitored by the divisional board and owned by the divisions CEO.
Contracts are responsible for developing CR initiatives that are in line with their divisional strategies and appropriate to their business and the communities in which they operate.
The contract director is responsible for delivering these initiatives.
Our CR activities also reect the passionate involvement of our people in local causes, which often involve them volunteering significant amounts of their own time to raise money or provide direct help to causes that matter to them.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 67 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility People businesses from three divisions into one.
This was a rigorous process, The number of people we employ is continually increasing, so we which we ran with the assistance of external consultants.
need a clear framework for managing and developing them.
Our leadership evaluation tool is also important as we enter new Our people strategy has three components.
We want to: geographical markets.
It gives us a tried and tested method for analysing leadership roles in that market and ensuring we can create reward O develop leaders who are t for the future and who will thrive packages that will attract and retain the right people for those roles.
as Serco grows Transferring knowledge and skills from one market to another is a O employ people who bring service to life, who are fully integrated key part of our business model see page 12.
We therefore need to and engaged with Serco and who we can develop to achieve their effectively support our leaders as they move around the world.
During full potential, and 2012, we employed Ernst & Young to help us improve our global mobility processes, enabling us to offer first-class support to our people when O make it easier to manage our people by continually enhancing they relocate.
In 2012, we remained committed to developing our Executive and have Developing leaders who are t for the future built relationships with a number of leading business schools.
As a devolved and fast-growing organisation, Serco needs capable and motivated leaders who have the potential to grow with us.
They are Employing people who bring service to life responsible for managing operations, securing our growth and creating We are dependent on the skill and enthusiasm of our people.
They enable the environment in which our people can best serve our customers.
us to deliver great service to our customers and contribute to our reputation and ability to grow.
During the year, we undertook a detailed evaluation of the leaders who joined us through the 2011 acquisition of Intelenet.
This used our Employee engagement was a major focus for Serco in 2012, recognising leadership evaluation tool, which considers the size of a leaders role that engagement is fundamental to employee wellbeing, the quality of our and its complexity.
The output from this exercise allows us to position services and our ability to deliver organic growth.
people appropriately in our leadership structure, so we can: During the year, we worked with Aon Hewitt to better understand the link O include them in succession planning between customer advocacy and employee engagement.
This showed a strong correlation, with more engaged employees leading directly to O ensure their base and variable pay properly reects the market, and higher customer satisfaction, which in turn links to contract retention and organic growth.
We have since produced a set of case studies setting O where appropriate, include them in the Global Management Team, out key lessons from contracts with the highest levels of engagement, which comprises Sercos top 180 leaders.
helping us to spread best practices around the business.
As a result of the evaluation work, the composition of our top 500 leaders We also once again undertook our annual global employee survey, now properly reects the international nature of our business.
This gives us important insights into how we can improve the working experience at Serco, resulting in greater engagement Sercos leadership model is known as H Heart, Head and Hands.
with our people and enhanced service for customers.
Results from the These components describe how great leaders in Serco behave, survey show trends and areas on which to focus.
An online tool gives with an emphasis on our Governing Principles and our customers: materials to cascade and enables managers to prepare action plans to drive improvement.
O Heart covers our leaders motives and demonstration of our Governing Principles In addition, we continued to support the UK governments Engage for Success taskforce.
This is an independent and voluntary group of leaders, O Head relates to intellectual and personal capacity managers, trade unionists, engagement practitioners and experts, who all want to highlight the importance of employee engagement.
In November O Hands covers skills, knowledge and experience 2012, the taskforce launched evidence that showed the UK was missing out on 26bn of GDP because workers were not actively engaged.
The 3 We have used assessment tools based on H to create development group also launched a free-to-use website www.
org plans for hundreds of leaders across the Group.
In 2012, we also used which contains case studies, tools and techniques for engaging employees.
those tools, along with our leadership evaluation tool, to ensure we had the right leaders in place as we reorganised our UK and European 68 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Our global Pulse Awards are designed to celebrate the very best We have also created a transaction management centre in Delhi, India.
qualities and achievements of Serco people, our customers and partners.
Our team there ensures that our HR transactions are processed smoothly, The awards are closely linked to our Governing Principles.
They recognise for example by ensuring that new joiners have access to our systems, people who excel at innovation, inspire through their leadership, the right computers or other equipment, and an identity card.
The Delhi demonstrate outstanding commitment and make an exceptional impact on centre consistently achieves high accuracy rates, making an important communities, the environment or in areas such as safety and ethics.
More contribution to our HR efficiency.
than 40 individuals and teams will receive an award for their work in 2012.
During 2012, we also completed Sercos first ever global software Making it easier to manage our people implementation.
MyHR is now live across the business and provides Our aim is to have easy-to-use tools, processes and systems that make a range of self-service tools for both managers and employees.
MyHR it easier to manage our growing workforce and deliver even higher levels gives managers better visibility and control of their team information, of productivity and service.
the ability to carry out people management activities online, and access to reports to support planning and decision making.
The system also We have therefore developed a target operating model for HR, which will makes HR processes easier for employees, for example by allowing support our growth.
The model gives us common HR processes around them to maintain their personal information or book annual leave online.
the world and allows us to centralise important aspects of our HR support, while decentralising the tools that our managers need to effectively run Over the next few years, we will be able to build on the work we have their teams.
done in 2012 to further enhance our HR tools.
This could include adding learning management systems and performance management, as well As part of this, we have created a shared service centre in Birmingham, as allowing individual employees to monitor their compensation and how UK.
This includes a centralised recruitment service, which is already it has changed over time.
One particular achievement has been our use of LinkedIn to identify candidates.
By building Sercos presence on the site, we now have access to around one million people.
Objectives and performance 2012 objective Result Comment To make it easier to manage Achieved We successfully introduced our target operating model and completed the first people by implementing a single phase of implementing MyHR.
HR programme and common core processes To develop leaders who are Achieved We incorporated the leaders who joined us as a result of the acquisition of Intelenet.
t for the future by embedding the talent review and succession In early 2012, we undertook a thorough review of our leadership talent, which planning process across a included applying rigorous leadership selection processes.
As a result, we are wider proportion of our prioritising the strengthening of our pipeline of leadership talent through the management population promotion, mobility and acquisition of individuals with skills and experiences required to deliver our goals.
To motivate and engage Ongoing We have begun to analyse the link between employee engagement and employees to bring service customer advocacy and to communicate the best practices identied to further to life by linking engagement drive engagement.
to performance 2013 objectives O To continue to implement MyHR the single HR programme and common core processes throughout the business O To continue to develop leaders who are t for the future by embedding the talent review and success planning process across a wider proportion of our management population O To improve our overall engagement levels by focusing on the top four engagement drivers for each division or function Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 69 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility Health and safety This new department has adopted a regional service model, with three Our aspiration is zero harm.
Nothing we do is so urgent or important that teams of SRC professionals supported by subject matter experts covering we cannot do it safely.
A strong HSE performance ensures the safety of our main safety-critical areas.
This follows a proven model deployed by our staff, helps to distinguish us in the market and enhances our reputation.
one of our former UK divisions and aligns with the UK Health & Safety Executives new model.
The model will help to ensure consistent This means that wherever they work and whatever their role, our people application of best practice across the UK & Europe.
must adhere to stringent health and safety procedures.
These procedures are embedded in the Serco Management System and are the minimum In addition to the reorganisation, we undertook a wide range of initiatives standards that must be applied.
To maintain these standards, we audit during the year to drive continuous improvement and better manage our ourselves against them, looking for best practices that we can apply HSE risks.
Among the many examples were: more widely within our business.
We address any inadequate performance and put in place new, better practices.
O detailed audits of businesses and contracts around the world Serco operates in a number of heavily regulated safety-critical areas, O working with regulators in the UK, the United States, the Middle East which places stringent requirements upon us.
We have the systems and Australia to develop deeper relationships in place to deliver these requirements, as reected in the regulatory approvals and licences we operate under.
This also means that we have O IOSH training programmes for managers in the Middle East regular regulatory oversight.
Together, these factors give us a strong controls framework for managing our HSE responsibilities.
O improvements to incident reporting, injury management and return-to-work processes in Australia A key development during the year was the creation of the new UK & Europe division, which required us to review the way we manage HSE in O safety meetings, training and an update to the Engineering Business the region.
As a result, we created a Safety, Risk and Compliance SRC Unit safety management system in the Americas.
department for the UK & Europe, under the control of a Director of SRC.
70 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Objectives and performance 2012 objective Result Comment To achieve a lost time incident Achieved The LTIR continued to improve in 2012, to 603.
This was a reduction of 33% rate LTIR of 796 per 100,000 compared with 2011 and 24% ahead of our target.
This performance was helped employees, a 50% reduction by the growth in Serco Global Services, which operates in a low risk environment.
against the 2008 baseline Our performance also reects our focus on continuous improvement and the maturity of our health and safety systems, particularly in our higher risk custodial, immigration and transportation business.
This is reected in our LTIR excluding Global Services, which improved by 11% in 2012.
To achieve a 40% reduction in Achieved The RIR was 399, a reduction of 22% compared with 2011 and a 60% reduction the staff reportable incident rate since 2008, compared with our target of 40%.
As with the LTIR, this benefited RIR per 100,000 employees from the performance of Serco Global Services.
Excluding Global Services, against the 2008 baseline the RIR was at year on year.
We have a number of ongoing initiatives aimed at improving performance.
To establish a baseline of Ongoing Given the scale and diversity of our business, capturing near-miss events is near-miss events against challenging.
All divisions have continued to try to establish consistent reporting which performance can through ASSURE, our system for capturing and analysing HSE performance data.
be tracked In 2012, the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA 2013 objectives presented Serco with 26 awards for contracts in the UK & Europe.
Our previous HSE strategy established our objectives for the period Of particular note was our contract at RAF Fylingdales, which won an 2008 to 2012.
We have therefore set a new HSE strategy and objectives Order of Distinction for receiving 17 consecutive Gold awards from through to 2016.
As part of this, we will publish annual targets.
Our Air Surveillance and Control Systems contract and Serco Our objectives for 2013 are as follows: Energy received Presidents Awards for 11 consecutive Golds, while our contract at Norfolk & Norwich University Hospital obtained a Gold Medal O A Lost Time Incident Rate of 573 per 100,000 employees, representing Award, to recognise six consecutive Golds.
The National Physical a 5% reduction against the 2012 baseline Laboratory won the Research and Development sector award.
In addition, the British Safety Council presented International Safety Awards to our O A Major Reportable Incident Rate per 100,000 employees of 57, HMP & YOI Doncaster and Prisoner Escort & Custody Services contracts.
representing a 15% reduction against the 2012 baseline We were particularly saddened by the deaths of four of our colleagues O A Physical Assault Rate of 528 per 100,000 employees, representing during the year.
A colleague at our environmental services contract in the a 15% reduction against the 2012 baseline London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham was fatally injured when he tried to prevent a burglary.
In Pondicherry, India, two colleagues were fatally injured in a road trafc accident when travelling home at the end of their shift.
In Australia, a colleague also died in a car accident when returning from a regional meeting.
Although Serco could not have prevented these incidents, we have taken action to try to avoid a recurrence.
This includes conict resolution training, the recognition of risk in induction training and special guidance on driving and fatigue.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 71 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility Community Serco celebrates its 25th anniversary as a listed company in 2013.
Engaging with our communities is fundamental to achieving our vision to To mark this occasion we have set up the Serco Foundation, be the worlds greatest service company see page 2.
Our communities an independent charity.
are primarily the people who live and work around our contracts but our denition extends to include the third-sector organisations we partner The Serco Foundation will work with charities and NGOs, within the with, to deliver a number of our contracts.
regions where Serco operates, to capitalise on the passion of our people to do good and to make donations that will signicantly benefit the Our commitment is reected in our target to reinvest 1% of our pre-tax campaigns of the charities it chooses to work with.
It will also seek profits into society.
Last year, we invested 2,560,084 through donations to work with large foundations and NGOs to help them consider how of money, assets and time to community projects and charities, to improve the delivery outcomes they seek to achieve.
representing 1% of our pre-tax profit.
The Foundation will be independent of Serco and will operate on a Working with communities contributes directly to our business success.
To ensure that the Foundation will have a long-term It helps to enhance our reputation and build trust with our customers future it will be established with a one-off endowment of 5m from Serco.
and the public, by demonstrating that Serco is a values-led organisation.
In addition we are planning to make small regular donations to the Engaging also gives us a better understanding of communities needs, Foundation, comprising cash donations and secondments.
which can help us to win bids and to operate existing contracts successfully, particularly where we are delivering services directly to the public.
Employability has been an important theme in our community work.
We were proud to second a senior member of our Group HR team to At the same time, we aim to have a positive and lasting impact on our work for the UK government as the CEO and founding partner of Plotr, communities, and to be welcomed by them as a partner who can help a new, industry-led not-for-profit venture, aimed at inspiring young people to solve the problems they face.
Sercos devolved structure helps us about their future career and preparing them to be more competitive to achieve this.
Across the Group, our people engage in many different in the labour market.
A Serco team also helped the UK government activities, as individuals or as teams.
These activities allow them to get to advance its National Citizenship Service programme, by developing involved in activities they are passionate about, ranging from local community a well-received online tool to engage with 16 year olds and encourage projects to raising money to help international disaster relief efforts.
them to improve their skills by taking part in local community projects.
Examples include the AMEAA divisions Walkabout Week.
The event, Working with third-sector partners is an important part of our approach which was held across the Asia Pacic region, raised money for Red Dust, in a number of markets, including the Work Programme in the UK and a charity that supports the health of indigenous communities.
Staff raised in our prison contracts.
This allows our customers to benefit from the A$47,830 and Serco donated an additional A$40,000.
The total amount expertise of these organisations in their particular elds, while enabling raised exceeded the target by A$17,830.
Serco Americas supported the the organisations to become involved in government programmes that American Diabetes Associations Tour fide Cure bike ride, with 38 riders they lack the scale to compete for on their own.
Our approach includes raising over $20,000, making them the second highest grossing corporate agreeing a payment mechanism with our third-sector partners, which team.
Among the many activities undertaken by Serco Global Services smooths their cash ows and helps to keep them on a stable footing.
employees were partnering with Swiss Emmaus Leprosy Relief Work India to create awareness and raise funds for people affected by Recognising the importance of the third sector, we are represented leprosy, and visiting orphanages in Mumbai to donate food, clothes in the working group for a UK government review into leadership and and toys.
skills in the sector, led by Dame Mary Marsh.
The review will consider how businesses and professionals can share their expertise with charities We also support organisations whose work touches our own, such as and social enterprises, and recommend ways in which the sector can the Military Child Education Coalition MCEC in the US, which helps upgrade and maintain its skills to meet the challenges of the future.
children affected by their parents relocation and deployment.
As well as making donations, we have seconded a senior employee from our Sercos commitment to its communities and corporate responsibility was Americas division, who provides invaluable support to MCEC.
recognised once again by Business in the Community, which awarded us Gold status in its 2012 Corporate Responsibility Index.
This is the seventh year running that Serco has achieved a Gold award.
Equally pleasing was the increase in our score, from 90% to 93%.
72 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Objectives and performance 2012 objective Result Comment To continue to invest 1% Achieved We invested 2,560,084 into society, through donations of money, assets and time.
of pre-tax profits back into This represented 1% of our pre-tax profits.
In addition, we contributed 5m to the wider society Serco Foundation.
To continue to promote the Ongoing Employability has been a key theme for Serco for the past ten years.
We focus theme of employability on our own employees, long-term unemployed people and youth employment.
In the UK, we are committed to making available 1,000 work placements and to working closely with the Princes Trust to help young unemployed people gain work experience.
We recently reached a milestone at Norfolk & Norwich University Hospital, where the 100th young person from the Princes Trust programmes gained work experience through Serco.
In the US, the Serco Scholars programme has continued to help families of employees.
In 2012, ten scholarships of $5,000 were awarded.
In the Middle East, our technical apprenticeship programme on the Dubai Metro is designed to address skill shortages within railway engineering in the region and to attract apprentices who are interested in railway engineering as a long term career.
To continue to develop Ongoing We continue to commission work from a range of third-sector providers, including our relationships with the national charities Catch22 and Turning Point in our prison contracts.
Third-sector third-sector partners organisations also deliver 35% of Sercos Work Programme contracts and 43% of our Job Deal contracts.
In addition, the Serco-led NCS Network consortium has successfully bid to deliver the National Citizen Service programme in 2013.
We are also represented in the working group for a UK government review into leadership and skills in the third sector.
To promote Ongoing We encourage volunteering within local communities and organisations.
In Australia, employee volunteering we have implemented an employee volunteering policy, giving employees up to two days a year paid time to volunteer.
To promote payroll giving Ongoing Employee giving continues to be a high priority for our businesses across the globe.
2013 objectives O To continue to invest 1% of pre-tax profits into wider society O To promote and support the Serco Foundation O To use the Serco25 campaign to encourage our people to raise money for charities Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 73 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility Environment O developing a formal environmental training package and improved Sercos aspiration for zero harm applies as much to the environment environmental data capture in Australia as it does to health and safety.
It makes good business sense to protect our reputation and reduce our energy consumption and environmental O assisting Americas contracts with a range of projects including impact.
Our environmental policy is also driven by the desire to do what fuel storage, Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure regulations, is right for the world we live in.
hazardous materials waste handling, disposal advisory development and air quality regulation compliance.
Although Sercos activities are typically managed at a local level, we are united in our strategy of measuring our impact and reducing our Our environmental efforts are reected in the recognition we receive.
This supports many initiatives in our operations In the UK, we were ranked fifth in the Carbon Disclosure Projects around the world.
We also have contracts that help our customers to FTSE 350 report, with a score of 92%, placing us in the Carbon Disclosure improve their environmental performance.
For example, Serco provides Leadership Index.
We also achieved a rating of B in the Carbon environmental services to UK local authorities, which help our customers Performance Leadership Index.
These indices highlight good practices to reduce the volumes of waste sent to landll sites.
in reporting, governance, risk management, verication and emissions reduction activities that drive climate change adaptation and mitigation.
As with our health and safety efforts, our businesses around the world undertook a wide range of initiatives to improve their environmental performance.
The following are just some of the examples: O reducing electricity use in our UK prisons by installing LED lighting in cells O cutting water use in our UK leisure contracts, for example by using swimming pool backwashes to irrigate golf courses 74 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Objectives and performance 2012 objective Result Comment To achieve an 18% reduction Revised Historically we have normalised our environmental data by revenue for comparative in our UK businesss CO purposes.
We do not believe that this continues to be meaningful, given the 2 tonnes m revenue against changing risk prole of the business and growth in employee numbers, particularly the 2008 benchmark within our BPO business.
We have therefore revised this KPI and extended it to cover our global footprint so that we normalise on a per head basis.
Based on this we have shown a 42% improvement in Carbon Emissions Headcount Intensity rate tCO e per 1,000 employees since 2008 2008 3,489, 2012 2,028.
2 To retain the Carbon Achieved We have retained our Carbon Trust Standard Trust Standard 2013 objectives O Carbon Emissions Headcount Intensity rate of 1,967 tonnes of CO 2 As part of our updated HSE strategy, we have set the following equivalent per 1,000 employees, which represents a 3% reduction environmental objectives for 2013: O Zero environmental prosecutions, fines and enforcement notices from our activities Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 75 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility Marketplace Suppliers Customers Effective procurement helps us to achieve our vision and deliver Developing long-term relationships with our customers is central to our high-quality service to customers.
We aim to be professional in all our business.
Day-to-day responsibility for meeting our customers needs lies dealings with suppliers and to establish mutually beneficial relationships.
Our approach to working with our customers is set out in our Governing Principles see pages 18 and 19, which aim We have a Procurement and Supply Chain function, which is responsible to empower our contract directors and ensure that we deliver for putting this approach into practice.
During 2012, we realigned the high-quality service.
procurement team to reect the new structure of the business.
Each division now has its own dedicated procurement business partner We maintain relationships at all levels with our customers, so they are embedded within the divisional management team.
aware of how we can help them and we can anticipate their changing needs and identify opportunities at an early stage.
These relationships Our businesses have many common purchasing needs which we strive lie with our divisional and Group leaders.
to full with preferred suppliers, enabling us to achieve better terms and conditions and make the most of our scale.
We have also bolstered our Our reputation with our existing customers is also vital in winning category teams and refocused on specic areas where we can deliver new work.
Many factors inuence our reputation, including: significant benefit to our frontline customer service delivery.
O the quality of our service O our values and service ethos O our capacity to innovate, and O our engagement with our employees and other stakeholders, such as local communities.
76 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco works with thousands of smalland medium-sized SME suppliers Joint venture partners and we continue to improve our interaction with them.
Our Small Business Serco has many joint ventures with commercial partners and customers.
Advisory Body in the UK is made up of representatives of SMEs from Strong relationships, based on mutual trust and respect and clarity across the business.
The Body guides us on our communications with of roles, are essential ingredients if a joint venture is to deliver excellent and support to SMEs.
In the US, we have a supplier mentor programme customer service.
Our divisional management teams are responsible which provides guidance to small businesses on key matters such as for relationships with our joint venture partners, supported by members growing their businesses and creating budgets.
of the Group Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
This includes holding regular strategy and review meetings with our partners.
We further enhanced our systems in 2012, to upgrade the procurement functionality of SAP.
This makes the process more efficient for us and Strategic partners our suppliers.
In particular, it enables suppliers to upload electronic We often deliver services as part of a consortium, either as prime catalogues, which can then be accessed through a single portal for contractor or as a subcontractor.
This allows us to bring together our people to buy from.
These upgraded systems allow us to streamline companies with the skills to meet the precise requirements of a bid.
our processes, improve compliance and enable our suppliers to work Our values and the open and honest way in which we work also make with us in a simple and consistent way.
us an attractive partner for voluntary sector organisations, who often lack the scale and experience to access major government programmes.
In the UK, we also signed up to the Prompt Payment Code.
Code Responsibility for relationships with our strategic partners lies with the signatories undertake to pay suppliers on time, to give them clear relevant contract and divisional management.
guidance for example on payment procedures and how to make complaints and promote good practice by requesting leading suppliers to encourage adoption in their own supply chains.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 77 Our performance Financial Governance statements
