Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 54 Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee The purpose of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee is to provide board oversight of the management of all non-financial risks to the group.
The structure for our CR policy and framework has been based around the four areas of Workplace, Marketplace, Environment and Community.
This provides a common framework for both our businesses regulated and non-regulated.
We will continue to review the framework as we integrate corporate responsibility into our core business operations for both Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services.
Within our CR framework, we have identied focus areas that are critical to our management of risk and reputation.
These areas have been determined through stakeholder dialogue, risk assessment and benchmarking within the water industry and the FTSE 100.
Dr Bernard Bulkin The focus areas have provided the basis for the forward agenda of the Committee, and Chairman of the Corporate will continue to be aligned to the nine principles set out in our Code of Conduct.
Keeping everyone healthy and safe The Committee provides guidance and 2.
Supporting employees rights and diversity direction to the groups Corporate 3.
Maintaining ethical and honest behaviour Responsibility CR programme, reviews 4.
Staying free from bribery and corruption the groups key non-financial risks and opportunities and monitors progress.
Keeping our communications open and responsible The terms of reference for the 6.
Delivering excellent customer service Committee can be found on the 7.
Working within the community companys website www.
Protecting our environment com and are also available from the 9.
Standing up for whats right Company Secretary.
The focus areas also determine our approach to working in collaboration with other The Committee reviews annually the organisations who share mutual interests and objectives.
Further information is groups formal whistleblowing policy available on our corporate website www.
that deals with allegations from employees relating to breaches of the Within Severn Trent Water we have an effective performance management system Code of Conduct and reviews at each inplace through 20 core business Key Performance Indicators KPIs and eight Key ofits meetings the whistleblowing Strategic Intentions KSIs.
These are overseen by the Executive Committee and the incident log.
Many of the business KPIs relate directly to our CR focus areas and therefore contribute signicantly to our CR performance.
We report internally on our performance through both our Executive Committee andthe Committee.
Externally, we report through a number of channels including ourannual regulatory submission to Ofwat, our websites and our Annual Report andAccounts.
During the year the Committee has received papers on key business programmes andstrategies linked to the terms of reference of the Committee.
These included catchment management, climate change adaptation, diversity and employee motivation.
The Committee also received reports from Internal Audit with respect to their work on non-financial risk aligned with the CR framework and regular updates on health, safety and environmental performance.
In addition, the Committee responds to emerging issues and uoridation was tabled as a result of questions posed at the 2011 AGM.
The members of the Committee are Dr Bernard Bulkin Chairman, Andrew Duff, Gordon Fryett and Tony Wray.
Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance in 2011 12 Dr Bernard Bulkin 5 5 Gordon Fryett 5 5 Andrew Duff 5 5 Tony Wray 4 5
