Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 0DQDJLQJ D VXVWDLQDEOH EXVLQHVV Our culture and people 2XU YDOXHV :H KDYH D FRPPRQ VHW RI YDOXHV WKDW UHSUHVHQW ZKDW ZH DUH DV D URXS DQG WKH DUH Responsible we recognise our obligations toour fellow employees, theenvironment and the communities in which we operate and can be trustedtodo the right thing Innovative we aim to create an environment which encourages and supports an entrepreneurial spirit Straightforward a no nonsense approach means we do what we say wewill do, empower our people to make decisions andare easy to do business with Open a transparent approach means that we are able to maintain high professional and ethical standards and internally our open culture enables ustobenet from shared knowledge and experience &XOWXUH 7KH IUDPHZRUN At Shanks we are committed to maintaining The aim of the framework is to improve our thehighest standards in everything we do.
execution ability and to ensure experience Oneof the key strengths of Shanks is the andgood ideas are shared across the Group.
welldeveloped entrepreneurial culture Operations are managed through the Group oftheindividual businesses, which leads Executive Committee comprising the Group toresponsiveness and innovation for all Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director ofourstakeholders.
Underpinning this entrepreneurial culture is The main elements of this are collaboration, aprogramme to develop an enhanced central communication, performance management, framework that delivers the benets of being a project management, financial discipline, large group.
This central framework is leading riskmanagement and talent development.
togreater co-ordination which has, and will, Recent examples of these initiatives include: continue to deliver financial benets and In the Netherlands a more centralised improved risk management.
In both our Belgian and Dutch operations we A Group-wide procurement initiative have taken significant steps to operate more whichwilldeliver savings over time.
asa single business rather than a federation of The refreshed and more consistent use of companies.
In Belgium this has been facilitated theShanks brand which has been launched by a management reorganisation that saw the across all of our operations this year.
appointment of regional directors and a national accounts team.
In the Netherlands, the The use of engineering experts from one management structure was rationalised to country to assist in the development of new create a smaller strategic executive group plants in another country.
steering the overall management of the country The initial phase of the implementation of a and co-ordinating activity.
Group-wide management information system which is allowing more direct comparisons ofnancial and operating metrics across thediffering businesses.
0DQDJLQJ D VXVWDLQDEOH EXVLQHVV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 6KDQNV LV D VHUYLFH EXVLQHVV DQG RXU HPSOR HHV DUH WKH IRXQGDWLRQ RI RXU VXFFHVV 4, 000 HPSOR HHV 2XU SHRSOH Shanks is a service business and our employees are the foundation of our success.
Our values are set out opposite and all of our employees are encouraged to live these values on a daily basis.
Support and training is given to ensure these values are maintained.
It is also a key focus that we ensure our people are safe.
There is significant effort in ensuring not only that health and safety practices are complied with, but our overall attitude to safety is second to none.
This is applied at all levels ofthe organisation including reviews of performance at our monthly country review meetings, Group Executive Committee and theBoard.
Safety visits with formal follow upprocesses areconducted by senior management aswell asthe health and safety team.
We are pleased to report as set out on page 40 that as a result of our heightened focus in this area our accident rates have reduced.
5HFUXLWPHQW WUDLQLQJ DQG GHYHORSPHQW Our goal is to recruit individuals who will perform well and will t with Shanks values.
We aim to ensure that all of our people are fully trained to perform their duties and in addition have in place development processes and structures to ensure they have progressive careers with Shanks.
Asthe Group develops and in particular as partof the central framework referred to, wewillenhance our leadership development programme.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and full and fair consideration is given to applications from, and the continuing employment, career development and training ofdisabled people.
A culture of two-way communications is actively promoted and trade unions, works councils and other employee groups are involved wherever appropriate.
To ensure continuing employee satisfaction andwellbeing, Shanks has undertaken employee opinion surveys in its three main 6KDQNV 0DWWHUV PDJD]LQH countries of operation and, from these surveys, Also launched in the year was a new internal magazine, has produced action plans aimed at Shanks Matters which is aimed at keeping staff informed improvingemployee engagement and ofGroup, as well as national initiatives, interviews and retainingits competitive advantage in the storiesof interest.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 0DQDJLQJ D VXVWDLQDEOH EXVLQHVV Delivering our goals through our people 0DUFHO Shanks reputation is Marcel Koen is a director of Vliko, one of the major recycling operations in the Netherlands, and has worked built on more than for the company since 1998.
Marcel believes that there aretwo reasons for Vlikos success in working with whatwe deliver to our household names such as Unilever andHeineken.
Firstly we are extremely close to our customers and take time customers.
The people tounderstand their ambitions and processes.
Increasingly we have to assess our customers processes so we can advise onhow these may be adjusted to increase recycling rates.
who work at Shanks are Forexample, in 2007 we established a joint client and Shanks employee group for one of our major national accounts.
committed to changing Whenwestarted this group the customers recycling rate fortheirwaste was 80% five years later it is now 98%.
the way people think Secondly Marcel believes Shanks unique position in the Netherlands creates a competitive advantage.
Three of Customers stay with us and join us because Shanks is the only major waste management company in the Netherlands which our people explain how haschosen to expand their recycling infrastructure rather than develop incineration capacity.
they help the Group On a more personal note Marcel continued, I am convinced that recycling is the best option.
We must ensure future generations can live in a healthy environment and Shanks goal to make more achieve its goals on from waste supports this.
Evidence of this partnership approach and unique strategy is the adaily basis.
recent extension of a material sorting line with optical sorting technology.
This facility can automatically separate plastics andpaper from general waste providing another opportunity toincrease the amount of material that is recycled and diverted from disposal.
This was done directly to serve the needs of ourcustomers, commented Marcel.
SAFETY CHECK LIST 0DQDJLQJ D VXVWDLQDEOH EXVLQHVV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 I am convinced that Good companies, like Shanks is all about recycling is the best Shanks, understand the sustainable waste option.
We must ensure positive effects safety management and the more future generations can can have on employee information on what this live in a healthy loyalty and productivity.
means that we can provide environment and Shanks to community stakeholders Martine Pottier goal to make more from the better.
Safety Adviser waste supports this Abi Cox objective.
Waste Education Marcel Koen and Minimisation officer Director of Vliko 0DUWLQH $EL Martine Pottier is Safety Adviser at the Roeselare facility Abi Cox is Waste Education and Minimisation officer in Belgium and is also a member of the Group Health forthe Derbyshire operations in the UK.
Abi has worked &Safety Committee.
She has worked for Shanks for Shanks for 18 months and is clear about her role.
for12years and believes that Shanks is committed Thework I do allows us togive understandable and accurate toimproving its health and safety standards.
information to community stakeholders anddispel any myths Shanks understands the positive effects safety can have on about recycling and recovery.
If an organisation cares about Not only can I give information out, I can also act as the conduit its people, then it must ensure their health and safety is a top through which the community can make its feelings known to priority, commented Martine.
Shanks, Abi said when asked about the work she does.
Of course we are not perfect and must always try to improve.
A large part of my role is educational, from giving talks at schools The twelve key safety essentials we released last year are a good and training teachers to attending road shows and presenting to example of improvement clear messages for everyone on local groups.
The youngest age group I give talks to are five year common safety standards.
olds, and the oldest person who has attended one of my presentations was 102 years old.
On the topic of what she brings personally to Shanks safety effort, Martine noted: It is always difficult to prove the benets of good Commenting on the value she brings to Shanks, Abi said: safety standards, but communicating with and gaining the Myentire job is about community relations and stakeholder involvement of employees is key this is where I can make a engagement.
Most people understand that landll is not an option difference as the link to ensure safety is embedded in the way anymore, but are unsure about what to replace it with.
all about sustainable waste management and the more effectively we can communicate what this means to community A typical day for Martine will see her arrive at work having given stakeholders, the better.
colleagues a lift as part of their car-pool scheme this is better for the environment and fuel costs she highlights.
She will then meet There is no typical day for me, but it might start with loading with any contractors working on site to agree work plans before thecar with educational resource equipment and packs before spending some time in the ofce to plan activities including health arriving at a school for a series of lessons focusing on composting assessments and training.
Martines advice is not just limited to or an introduction to reducing, re-using and recyclingwastes.
Shanks sites and she also has to consider customers health Evening work is a given, such as presentations to local andsafety.
People are always interested in what Martine commented I often have meetings with customers, happens to their waste.
One evening a person attending a suchas those we will be doing industrial cleaning tasks for.
presentation brought along a bag of waste and asked me to Atypical issue may be fall protection while doing a job.
I need to describe what the best waste management route for each of the ensure that our employees will be safe and that the customer is items in their bag would be an unusual, but effective approach.
not at risk safety is part of the service we provide to customers.
Innovative Open Responsible Straight forward
