Directors report | Business review | Corporate responsibility 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AS A RESULT OF OUR ONGOING EFFORTS, THE NUMBER OF REPORTABLE INJURIES FELL FOR THE FOURTH YEAR RUNNING.
Our people and the environment are at 2012 summary During the year we invested 19m in the very heart of our business.
We strive In 2012, our CR work focused on the environmental improvements including to provide a safe place of work for all of following areas: efuent treatment, waste reduction, our people and to manage carefully our increased energy generation and greater t JOWFTUJOH JO UIF USBJOJOH PG PVS 4 & environmental impacts and use of scarce energy efficiency.
specialists to ensure they continue to resources.
This is a business priority and help embed a safe working culture and Our full HS&E report for 2012 is available is embedded in the four core principles HPPE FOWJSPONFOUBM SJTL NBOBHFNFOU at www.
co. uk but highlights of our upon which our approach to Corporate environmental performance in 2012 include: Responsibility CR is founded: t JNQSPWJOH UIF XBZ XF NFBTVSF 4 & performance, in particular water use, t PG PVS FOFSHZ XBT EFSJWFE GSPN t NBOBHJOH PVS FOWJSPONFOUBM JNQBDU XBTUF HFOFSBUJPO BOE SFDZDMJOH SFOFXBCMF SFTPVSDFT t UBLJOH DBSF PG PVS QFPQMF t TUSFOHUIFOJOH PVS OFUXPSL PG $3 t XF JODSFBTFE UIF BNPVOU PG FMFDUSJDJUZ t G PTUFSJOH FUIJDBM CVTJOFTT SFMBUJPOTIJQT specialists across the group and we export from our sites by 9% to a total and improving communication among of 837 GWh.
This equates to supplying them to share good practice and 6, IPNFT GPS B ZFBS t CFJOH HPPE OFJHICPVST SJTL NBOBHFNFOU BQQSPBDIFT BOE t PVS TVHBS PQFSBUJPOT SFEVDFE UIF FOFSHZ CR is a journey for Associated British Foods, t DPOUJOVJOH UP TUSFOHUIFO PVS FUIJDBM OFFEFE UP QSPEVDF TVHBS CZ and we are well aware that there are many sourcing programmes at Primark and areas in which we need to continue to t #SJUJTI 4VHBS $BOUMFZ IBT JNQMFNFOUFE Twinings Ovaltine, with a focus on improve our performance.
We have a a water efficiency programme, resulting training our staff and suppliers, and decentralised approach to managing our in a significant reduction in water use NGOpartnerships.
businesses each business is encouraged PG GSPN TFF DBTF TUVEZ to put in place improvements to minimise Environment t 1 SJNBSL DPMMFDUFE UPOOFT PG Many of our businesses are closely linked any negative social or environmental waste cardboard in 2011, some 61% impacts and to maximise the positive to agriculture and are therefore sensitive of total packaging, which reappeared to changes in weather.
Following a year contributions they can make.
Typically this as 179 million paper shopping bags.
is achieved by sharing examples of good of unusual weather patterns in 2011, the weather in 2012 in most countries in which practice, increasing the level of importance attached to monitoring and reporting CR we operate has been more stable.
This resulted in some of our businesses, performance and to ensuring that senior management in the businesses are particularly our sugar operations, increasing heldaccountable.
We are pleased that our total energy use decreased by 4% despite an increase Reporting in production of 9%, showing the very We remain committed to publishing a full positive impact of our focus on energy CR report every three years and provide improvement measures.
further information via our annual Health, Safety & Environment HS&E report on Our businesses have the greatest impact ourwebsite.
on the environment through their use of energy and the resultant emission of carbon dioxide CO2, the abstraction of water and the disposal of waste.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Corporate responsibility 33 REDUCING WATER ABSTRACTION AT OUR SUGAR FACTORY IN CANTLEY For over 100 years, the factory has been a landmark on the banks Situated in Norfolk, Cantley sugar factory of the River Yare, from where it can be seen for miles around.
has a special place in the history of this Water plays a significant role at Cantley and in all British Sugar factories, countrys sugar industry.
Built in 1912, where it is used for cleaning, heating, cooling and transportation sugar beet oat in water.
The manufacturing sites operate under ISO 14001, and as the first British beet sugar factory, the internationally recognised standard for environmental management and it marks the birth of the homegrown they undergo independent audits to review performance against continuous improvement targets.
As part of this process, each site identies and sugar industry.
maximises opportunities for the reuse and recycling of water.
Over the past five years, British Sugars factory at Cantley has been making steady progress in reducing the volume of water it uses to manufacture sugar, electricity and other co-products.
Improvements were achieved by instigating many small-scale measures and behavioural initiatives, but it was identied that to make a significant step change, more radical thinking was required.
Cantley factory abstracts water under licence from three sources: t QPUBCMF XBUFS GPS CPJMFS GFFE BOE TJUF BNFOJUJFT t CPSFIPMF XBUFS GPS QSPDFTT BOE DMFBOJOH EVUJFT BOE t SJWFS XBUFS GPS DPPMJOH EVUJFT 3 In 2011, the factory used some 40,000m of river water, which was abstracted from the River Yare into a small reservoir, from where it was pumped to the factory for cooling purposes.
It was identied that a pond nearby was lled with process condensate awaiting permitted discharge to the river.
This condensate had already been cooled to below 25C to meet the discharge temperature limit.
A small project team examined the feasibility of using this cooled condensate to replace river water.
The outcome of the study was the installation of 200 metres of pipeline and a condensate pump which now feeds cooled condensate via the original system, removing the need to use any river water.
A feasibility study is now planned to investigate similar reduction opportunities for borehole water.
Our people Whenever there is a death on our sites or In 2012, we developed and ran an extensive Our business priority is to safeguard the linked to our operations, we alert all our training and support programme for nearly wellbeing, development and safety of our businesses and re-emphasise the 200 HS&E specialists.
This was delivered people and those who work with us.
With requirement for safe working practices.
through face-to-face group training days, 106,000 employees we put significant online training sessions and one-to-one In 2012 we invested 32m to improve effort into ensuring that our businesses advice.
This training included an introduction working conditions and the safety of are safe places in which to work and we to new key performance indicators, equipment.
We are pleased that as a result aim to offer our people the support most a reminder of the sources of information, of our ongoing efforts, reportable injuries suitable for theirneeds.
calculations and parameters required to fell for the fourth year running, down 13% reach our final data and technical training Despite health and safety being an absolute from 2011.
Another highlight was Illovo on the global system we use for data priority, we deeply regret having to report Sugars safety transportation programme, collection andapproval.
five fatalities of contractors on our sites which almost halved the number of injuries during 2012.
Four of these deaths occurred over the last year incurred during our in Africa and one in China.
Loss of life agricultural workers commute to work.
in our operations is entirely unacceptable.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Corporate responsibility 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our suppliers Both Primark and Twinings Ovaltine have To try and support this situation, Primark Our core business principles as they continued to build on their ethical sourcing has begun a train the trainer project in relate to our suppliers are available at programmes during the last year.
This forms part of the Companys www.
They include focus on building in-country teams of ethical efforts to develop and build on its already requirementsto: sourcing specialists has had significant extensive range of training tools that impact in supporting sustainable improvements suppliers can use to make improvements.
t D BSSZ PVU PVS CVTJOFTT IPOFTUMZ FUIJDBMMZ within supplier factories, giving greater and with respect for the rights and Among the many projects that Primark runs visibility across the supply chain, as well JOUFSFTUT PG PVS TVQQMJFST with NGOs, we were particularly impressed as improving the management of the by the fast and dramatic results achieved by t TFUUMF PVS CJMMT QSPNQUMZ CFJOH B TJHOBUPSZ extensive audit programme.
the HERproject Health Enables Returns in to the Prompt Payment Code, coPrimark conducted 1,795 ethical audits Bangladesh this year which provided health operating with suppliers to improve last year, and unannounced spot-checks education to 4,500 female factory workers RVBMJUZ BOE FGmDJFODZ continue to be an important part of our in Bangladesh on hygiene, sexual and t EFWFMPQ SFMBUJPOTIJQT XJUI TVQQMJFS monitoring protocol.
We encourage suppliers reproductive health, maternal health and companies consistent with these basic to make investment in internal compliance nutrition image on page 35.
In addition to principles, and specically with respect to teams to help support sustainable change the obvious benets of workers receiving internationally recognised human rights where needed.
However, a challenge for health education, improvement in overall BOE DPOEJUJPOT PG FNQMPZNFOU BOE the whole industry is that the pool of qualied workplace communication was significant, people to ll these roles is relatively small.
and we plan to roll out the project across t FODPVSBHF B QSPHSBNNF PG JNQSPWFNFOU the supply base in Bangladesh as well as where shortcomings are identied introducing the project in both China through our supplier audit programme.
Over 97% of the factories that supply Primark also supply other high street retailers and this gives us an opportunity to collaborate on tackling supply chain issues.
Further details can be found HELPING MAJOR SUPERMARKETS TO TRACK AND at www.
Similarly, over the last year, Twinings REDUCE THEIR CARBON FOOTPRINT Ovaltine has continued to scale up its ethical sourcing programme across its supply chain from ingredients to packaging.
AB Sustain designed and now operates and our understanding of the key Risk assessments have been carried out an award-winning Carbon Footprint drivers of carbon and production on all areas, and ethical audits have been Initiative for Sainsburys.
The model used efficiencies, we are able to deliver conducted in Europe, China, South East in this initiative is accredited by the UK tangible cost and environmental Asia and South America to ensure that Carbon Trust to its highest quality tier benets across the supplychain.
products are made at sites that meet and is the only model of its kind to have the requirements of our ethical code of This initiative has been consistently achieved this level of accreditation across conduct.
Through the work of the Ethical acknowledged for its effectiveness the globe.
The initiative began in 2007 Tea Partnership, 100 of the estates from and has won several high-prole awards, with 325 dairy herds and has since which Twinings sources its teas have including the Guardian 2012 Carbon expanded across eight other livestock been audited.
Award won by Sainsburys for its work and produce sectors to include almost with UK farmers to reduce their In addition, Twinings has developed an 3,000 UK producers.
It follows the proven environmental impact by using the ethical sourcing training programme for methodology of measure improve AB Sustain Carbon Footprint model.
This has been rolled out measure to support and drive continuous worldwide to ensure that all procurement improvement at every participating farm.
By the end of 2011, carbon emissions and marketing teams are aware of the Through accurate on-farm data capture had been reduced by 48,000 tonnes requirements of our code and how to and 21.4m of farm improvements purchase ingredients ethically.
As a result of this success AB Sustain is delighted to have received the Sainsburys Supplier Making it Happen award.
"Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Corporate responsibility 35 During 2012, Twinings worked in partnership t FOHBHJOH XJUI PVS DVTUPNFST UP NFFU Our communities with three development NGOs to support their needs and provide them with We recognise our responsibilities as a tea communities: with Save the Children in JOGPSNBUJPO member of the communities in which China, and Unicef and Mercy Corp in India we operate and encourage our businesses t ""MMJFE #BLFSJFT IBT JNQMFNFOUFE JUT on challenges including child mortality, to engage with their local communities 2012 salt reduction targets across all anaemia and access to water and sanitation."
However, the of its bread and roll products, with the More detail on these projects can be found groups contribution to communities majority introduced in the first quarter at www.
comes principally via the Gareld Weston PG BOE Foundation, which was set up by the late Our products and customers t XF DPOUJOVF UP QSPHSFTT UPXBSET PVS W. Gareld Weston in 1958.
We are very aware of our responsibility for target of purchasing Certied Sustainable our products and to our customers and this It is one of the UKs foremost philanthropic Palm Oil across the group by 2015.
The year we have focused on: organisations and derives a substantial Jordans & Ryvita Company already proportion of its funds from its interests t QSPEVDU BOE GPPE TBGFUZ uses 100% certied sustainable palm oil.
in the groups ultimate holding company, Allied Bakeries also purchase Green Palm t QSPEVDU OVUSJUJPOBM MBCFMMJOH Wittington Investments Limited.
More detail Certicates to encourage sustainable can be found at www.
t TPVS DJOH XIJDI JODMVEFT QBMN PJM TPZB palm oil production and has committed to using 100% sustainable palm oil by 2014.
QSPEVDUT If you have any feedback on our CR Both businesses scored maximum points information here or on our website, please in a survey of palm oil usage by the World contact us via www.
Reportable injury rates Percentage of employees having a reportable injury 1.00% 0.75% 0.81 0.77 0.70 0.62 0.50% 0.52 0.25% 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
