40 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Sustainability review continued Energy usage Water consumption -1.5% 2.6% Energy and carbon reduction Healthy environmental performance Smith & Nephew recognises that emissions resulting Our sustainability targets from its global operations represent one of the key environmental impacts arising from the business.
In Reduce non-renewable energy use by 15% by2015 2012, initiatives to reduce our energy consumption and Reduce CO emissions by 15% by 2015 2 associated carbon emissions have resulted in a reduction Reduce water use by 15% by 2015 in energy usage of -1.5% and -1.8% reduction in carbon emissions.
Reduce packaging materials by 15% by 2015 There has been tracking of energy savings initiatives at all Reduce total waste by 15% by 2015 of the major facilities.
These range from lighting to heating Increase the percentage of total waste recycled by 15% and air handling to water cooling.
by2015 all normalised for growth Lighting upgrades in warehousing and manufacturing centres have contributed to significant energy savings.
Smith & Nephew is committed to reducing the impact Improvements to equipment and processes have resulted of its activities on the environment to create a healthier in reduced power consumption across a number of planet.
By focusing on energy and waste reduction, the production facilities.
Group is also reducing costs and becoming more efficient.
2012 Key performance compared Water to normalised 2011 baseline % Water consumption has risen by 2.6% in 2012.
Achieving a Energy -1.5 reduction in water usage is particularly challenging as the majority of the water used wthin the Group is consumed CO -1.8 2 at one individual facility where water is used for many key Water 2.6 processes.
Total Group waste 5.1 Change in % waste sent for recycling 21.3 Packaging, waste and recycling Waste reduction, including that related to product Smith & Nephew uses a normalisation process based on cost of production which is dened as the cost of goods sold adjusted for opening packaging, is a priority for Smith & Nephew.
Given that and closing inventory levels.
As production efficiencies are realised the a large amount of medical products are shipped and cost of goods sold reduces and this can distort the effects of real transported it is vital to ensure that these are protected environmental benets making them appear less than actually achieved.
from the point of manufacture through to the point of Smith & Nephew will include a longer commentary on the normalisation process in its full Sustainability Report published later this year.
Product packaging plays a critical role in ensuring this safe delivery.
Establishing an effective strategy to meet our target Reduction in CO emissions of 100 2 for reduction in packaging materials is challenging metric tonnes: by re-routing vehicles due to the highly regulated environment and long lead for improved efficiency times for change approvals.
However by considering design, exploring ways to reduce and using new, more sustainable materials we are making progress in this area.
Our Advanced Surgical Devices facility in Alberta, Canada has reduced the number of miles that In 2012, one of our supply chain teams developed a materials and products are transported by re-routing specific process to optimise how our products are some vehicles for improved efficiency.
This initiative shipped and reduce shipping air around the world.
has reduced the number of journeys and therefore By implementing this process for outbound packaging the overall distances driven by 120,000 miles per operations, corrugated cardboard usage was reduced by year.
Thisequates to an approximate reduction in CO 2 over 6 tonnes and CO emissions reduced by 6,148kg in 2 emissions of 100 metric tonnes.
These reductions will have a further positive impact in 2013 when the process is fully implemented.
