marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 4 sustainability review 37 Lost time injury rate Corporate citizenship philanthropy spend -17% $14m 2011: 1% 2011: $14m Wellness programmes Healthy social performance By the end of 2012 structured wellness programmes were Our sustainability targets in place at eight out of 18 of our major facilities covering 46% of our employees.
Smith & Nephew defines major facilities A safe and healthy work environment.
Strive for zero injuries and attain a position in top quartile of industry for safety as those in which more than 100 people report to work.
performance through 2015 Wellness programmes typically include lifestyle screenings and health assessments and preventative programmes A healthy workforce.
Implement wellness programmes based on nutrition and fitness advice.
In some locations inatleast 60% of our major facilities by 2015 there are on site fitness facilities and classes.
At least 40% of our global talent pool will be women by 2015 Diversity at Smith & Nephew An ethical work environment.
Employees must continue to complete annually assigned compliance training and certify Smith & Nephew believes that diversity fuels innovation.
adherence to our Code of Conduct and Business Principles We focus on creating an inclusive, engaging environment where employees are valued and drive achievement of A responsible leader in the community.
Such an environment fosters strength in our than1%of adjusted pre-tax profits annually towards corporate business because the variety of perspectives, experiences citizenship philanthropy through 2015 and work styles enhance creativity and innovation.
We are committed to employment practices based on equality Smith & Nephew touches the lives of millions of customers, of opportunity, regardless of colour, creed, race, national communities and people across 90 countries.
To deliver origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation or mental our technological innovations, we rely on the commitment or physical disability unrelated to the ability of the person to and hard work of a network of more than 10,000 perform the essential functions of the job.
The Board and Executive continue to recognise the importance of diversity and over the last two years have A safe and healthy working environment expanded their own diversity profile.
Smith & Nephew has a longstanding commitment to the safety and health of employees, visitors and An ethical work environment contractors.
By reinforcing the responsibility of employees and contractors to work safely and follow our policies, We earn trust standards and procedures, we are building a safe and Trust is the foundation on which Smith & Nephew is built healthy place to work.
and it is the hallmark of its interactions with stakeholders In 2012 we achieved a 9% improvement in the both inside and outside the Group.
A Code of Conduct Occupational Safety and Health Administration Total and Business Principles defines the standards of Recordable Incident Rate TIR and a 17% improvement behaviour for the Groups employees as well as suppliers, in the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR.
In addition contractors and distributors authorised to do business on the severity of lost time injuries, as measured by number the Groups behalf.
These improvements were Smith & Nephew fosters trust through open achieved through determined management leadership communication and a collaborative environment where and engagement of our employees.
ideas are encouraged, recognised and rewarded.
Communication channels include group-wide newsletters Group safety rates and intranet platforms as well as a variety of forums for 2011 TIR 1.16 open dialogue including quarterly reports from the CEO and quarterly employee meetings on the state of the 2012 TIR 1.06 Group and important initiatives.
indd 37 26 02 2013 09:31 38 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Sustainability review continued Code of Conduct and Business Principles A responsible leader in the community Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects For Smith & Nephew, corporate citizenship and of its operations and expects the same from those philanthropy play an integral role in the achievement of with whom it does business.
Our Code of Conduct and the Groups strategic objectives of creating commercial Business Principles governs the way we operate so that value, building a strong reputation and creating deeper we respect stakeholders and seek to build open, honest engagement for employees.
Smith & Nephew adopts a shared value approach to Smith & Nephew takes account of ethical, social, philanthropy and citizenship which focuses on leveraging environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of the Groups resources to be a force for good.
The principal its operating methods.
We have a robust whistle-blowing focus is on support for research, prevention, treatment system in all jurisdictions in which Smith & Nephew operates and recovery of joint and bone health and wound care.
and where we have the necessary regulatory approvals.
In2012, a new philanthropy policy was agreed and will Our Code also states that we have a non-retaliation policy be deployed in 2013.
Details of this will be given in the full against anyone who makes a report in good faith.
Sustainability Report to be published later this year.
New employees receive training on our Code of Conduct In 2012, Smith & Nephews support for community and Business Principles.
We also assign annual charitable causes, grants, sponsorships and medical compliance training to employees.
In 2012, we created education was approximately $14m including $2m in two courses: I earn trust and Data privacy to use for our product donations.
As a matter of policy, Smith & Nephew annual training.
The I earn trust module focused on the makes no political contributions.
key elements that make up trust goodwill, ability and Smith & Nephew has developed relationships through integrity and gave employees an opportunity to practice healthcare professionals around the globe to support earning trust in different scenarios.
medical missions and medical education.
In 2012 this Global Compliance Programme charitable outreach included mission work in Vietnam through the Prosthetics Outreach Foundation, in Ecuador Smith & Nephew aims to have a world-class, Global and Guatemala and the US through Operation Walk and Compliance Programme that helps our business mitigate Canvasback Missions in Majuro, Republic of the Marshall risk and comply with global laws.
Nephew continued to strengthen its comprehensive compliance programme which includes global policies Our initiatives into medical education included being the and procedures, on-boarding and annual training for its first sole sponsor of an Orthopaedic facility when the employees and managers around the world, monitoring KwaZulu-Natal Orthopaedic Training Centre at the Inkosi and auditing processes, and reporting channels.
We Albert Luthuli Central Hospital, South Africa opened provide resources and tools to guide employees through its doors in June 2012.
This Centre provides training a global intranet web site.
We require approvals for any and education opportunities for surgeons from across significant interactions with healthcare professionals or Africa looking to learn minimally-invasive arthroscopic government officials.
New distributors are subject to due techniques.
diligence, required to commit to compliance with our Code and take training.
Employees help raise community In 2012, under the terms of the Companys FCPA awareness for Child Survival Programme settlement see Legal Proceedings, we retained an independent monitor to review the effectiveness of our compliance programme and make recommendations, as Our employees participated in many volunteer appropriate, for further enhancements to the programme.
programmes during 2012 including the Manly-Manado The monitor completed his initial review in August, Walk to raise funds for Compassions Child Survival and we are now in the process of implementing the Programme in Manado, Indonesia.
Employees from our recommended enhancements.
offices in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia joined others in the community to help raise awareness of why water, sanitation and hygiene matter in a developing community.
indd 38 26 02 2013 09:31 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 4 sustainability review 39 Each year, Smith & Nephew conducts a comprehensive Our people and communities global development and capability review process Our people strategy, which outlines our approach to to identify high potential employees and ensure they leading our workforce and supports the delivery of our have solid development plans.
We continue to work on business strategy, is built on three key pillars: attract, succession plans for critical positions across our business recruit and retain talent: develop leaders: and engage and have taken proactive steps to recruit specialist and employees through value driven strategies.
leadership talent to augment our current team.
We pride Smith & Nephews vision is to be the best at improving ourselves in maintaining a robust leadership strategy to peoples lives and this vision extends to our employees.
identify and develop our leaders and offer a wide range Our employees are dedicated to our core values of of learning opportunities to our employees.
Current Performance, Innovation and Trust which represent the programmes include the CEO forum designed to develop foundation of our culture.
talent and provide exposure to the broader business and the General Managers Meeting held annually to align Investing in our people and communities will help us these key leaders with the Groups strategy and goals.
ensure the long-term sustainability of our business.
In addition the Board reviews succession plans for key In 2012, our workforce included more than 10,000 executive roles.
Our employment practices are designed to help us create the right Our performance management process means workplace culture in which all employees feel valued, employees are set business aligned objectives and respected, empowered and inspired.
behavioural goals that are rewarded on high performance.
Reward systems are focused on promoting high We strive to have the communities in which we work performance and helping to attract and retain the prosper as our business grows.
investment strengthens our business by supporting the local economies where we operate, helping us build Smith & Nephew strives to create a more engaged and strong relationships and capitalising on the philanthropic productive workforce and focuses on four measures spirit of our workforce.
These include an understanding of the Groups mission and direction, Attracting the best talent and developing and engaging sense of employee involvement, focus and adaptability to our employees is critical to achieving and sustaining customers and market place.
We continue to listen to our our business objectives and overall performance.
Our employees and value their opinions.
In 2012, more than appointments are made on merit and in alignment with a 90% of our workforce responded to our Global Survey.
core set of competencies and values of which ethics and integrity are central.
Our priority lies in the development and promotion of our employees whenever possible.
