m mar ark ke et tp pl la ac ce e an and d s sust usta aiin na ab biil liit ty y f fiina nan nc cial ial r re ev viie ew w c cor orp por ora at te e a acco ccou un nt ts s a an nd d o ove ver rvi vie ew w s st tr ra at te eg gy y a an nd d p pe er rf form orma an nc ce e b bus usiin ne es ss s s se egm gme en nt t r re ev viiew ew r re ev viiew ew a and nd p pr rin inc cip ipa al l r riis sk ks s g go ove ver rn nan anc ce e o ot th he er r i in nf form orma at tiion on s se ec ct tiio on n 4 4 s su ust stai ain na abi billiit ty y r re ev viiew ew 35 35 Sustainability strategy Smith & Nephew continues to make progress inachieving the objectives in our sustainability strategy, which seeks to meet  of a sustainable business.
Smith & Nephew has been measuring, reporting and Sustainability vision improving on its sustainability performance since 2001.
During this time, the Group has made good progress and Smith & Nephew will continue to build a sustainable has been looking for ways to align sustainability more business based on a global commitment to healthy closely with our overall strategic priorities.
environmental, social and economic performance.
Byworking with stakeholders and inspiring employees, With this objective in mind, and under the leadership of the vision will create shared value for all people that Chief Executive Officer, Oliver Bohuon, Smith & Nephew come into contact with the business by: developed a new sustainability strategy in 2011 as described below.
The strategy aims to reinforce a healthy Reducing risk and cost brand and strengthen corporate reputation by focusing on Building a better place to work three distinct priorities: Innovating differentiated products and services, Healthy economic performance andincreasing engagement with customers Healthy social performance Increasing shareholder value Healthy environmental performance Objectives Smith & Nephew developed a comprehensive set of 2015 targets across each of these areas.
These are outlined below: Sustainability is a healthy business the journey to 2015 Our sustainability aim Build on our brand and corporate reputation Be an industry leader incorporating sustainability Better engage with our customers.
objectives to reduce costs, innovate and differentiate Be a best place to work.
Our sustainability priorities Healthy economic Healthy social Healthy environmental performance performance performance Delivering revenue growth and shareholder Delivering a safe and healthy work Minimising environmental impact by value through efficiency, performance and environment with strong ethics and values, reducing use of energy, carbon, water innovation.
which embraces diversity and plays a andother key resources.
leadership role in the communities where the Group operates.
