We comply with the law Corporate responsibility 1 Conducting our business responsibly is one of our fundamental values and We compete fairly a key element of our five-part business 2 strategy.
The Code of Business We act with integrity in all our Ethics the Code is at the heart of our business dealings 3 corporate responsibility CR approach.
It sets out 12 broad principles for how We treat suppliers, partners and customers properly 4 we do business, based on the common values of integrity, honesty, fairness and We treat our co-workers transparency.
It provides the framework respectfully 5 for our policies, programmes and procedures for a range of CR issues.
We contribute to healthy, safe and secure workplaces 6 The Code applies to all of our businesses and employees worldwide.
We respect the environment Complying with it enables us to meet our obligations to our 7 stakeholders and to create long-term value for our shareholders, by delivering real business benets.
These include: helping our people to work productively in a safe and ethical environment We contribute to our communities 8 protecting our reputation and our ability to grow enhancing our efficiency, for example through lower energy costs, and We participate in relevant public debates reducing the risk of an incident and avoiding the associated costs.
9 Sustainability is also a business opportunity for us.
Our customers value suppliers with strong CR performance and many of our We respect human rights products and services also benefit the environment and contribute 10 to the safety, health and security of people around the world.
For example, John Cranes seals help our customers to reduce their environmental impact.
We have high standards Communicating the Code of financial record-keeping 11 We make the Code available to employees in 12 languages, in both and reporting printed format and on the Groups intranet.
Posters of the Code are also displayed at our sites.
The Code applies to all of us To communicate the Code, we provide ethics training to employees 12 across the Group.
This training course is available online in English and five other languages, through a custom-built platform, the Read more at Global Learning Resource GLR, and installed on a Group training www.
com responsibility portal accessible through the internet.
The course is also available on CD-ROM.
The GLR and portal are designed to support future employee training in the areas of business ethics, compliance, safety and security.
Several other compliance training courses are available in various formats.
We regularly add new ethics and compliance training programmes and in 2011 we added an online Anti-Bribery and Corruption course.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 59 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate responsibility Continued Managing corporate responsibility Environment, health and safety The Code Compliance Council for the Code of Business Ethics the The Group is committed to working in a way that, as far as reasonably Council acts as the steering committee for our ethics programme.
It practicable, protects the health and safety of its employees and is supported by the Senior Vice President, Ethics & Compliance.
The minimises any environmental effects of its activities, products and Council meets quarterly to determine priorities and review key issues.
We have a Group EHS strategy, KPIs and goals, which Council members take the lead in co-ordinating resources in their support our business strategy and the Code.
Our divisions adapt the divisions or corporate functions.
The Council and its Chair are assisted Group EHS strategy to reect their specic impacts and any needs to by a dedicated, full-time ethics and compliance administrator.
improve their EHS management and performance.
The Senior Vice President, Ethics & Compliance periodically reports We strongly believe in the power of continuous improvement and use to the Audit Committee on ethical issues and suspected or actual management systems to realise its benets.
These systems help to breaches of the Code.
He also serves as an adviser and resource on improve our EHS management by providing an externally veried ethical issues and manages responses to all enquiries and allegations.
framework for risk reduction, continual improvement, compliance Legal counsel provide compliance support to our businesses.
They assurance and management review.
offer advice, education, training, guidance materials, export control For several years, we implemented EHS management systems at policies and risk assessment tools.
manufacturing sites with 50 or more employees.
Since 2010, we have The Group maintains a condential Ethics Alertline, which answers expanded these systems to include warehousing and service centres queries and enables employees to report any concerns or allegations.
and sites with 20 or more employees.
The Alertline is available via email, the internet and toll-free phone Sites with 50 or more employees are required to have their EHS numbers in 53 countries.
Last year we engaged a company that management systems externally certied to the following standards: specialises in ethics management to administer the Alertline, to provide continuous coverage and support in 35 languages.
All issues OHSAS 18001 for occupational health and safety management are addressed promptly and referred, as required, to relevant functions systems, and so we can investigate them.
Our non-retaliation policy means that any ISO 14001 for environmental management systems.
employee who, in good faith, reports apparent misconduct or unethical behaviour will not be victimised or treated adversely.
New acquisitions and sites that grow above these thresholds have two years to comply.
Of our more than 160 sites, 95 are required to Some issues are managed by other functions within Smiths Group, implement systems and complete external certication.
Some smaller depending on the nature of the issue and how it can most effectively sites voluntarily obtain certication.
So far, 95 sites have completed be managed.
Sites that have not completed certication have action environment, health and safety EHS issues are the responsibility plans to do so.
Most of these sites are new acquisitions or expanded of line management and are overseen through a Group-wide EHS operations and they have two years to obtain certication.
steering committee, a technical implementation committee and local co-ordinators security is also a line management responsibility and is controlled through a Group-wide security committee employee issues are managed by line management and through the human resources function supplier and customer programmes are managed by each business, and community programmes are principally managed locally, although there is also some Group-level activity.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 60 Health and safety Environment Our Group-wide activities to reduce incidents have focused on Our environmental targets are to achieve 10% reductions in energy leadership and employee safety awareness and involvement.
We usage, greenhouse gas emissions and waste generation, and a 5% have recently implemented these activities and are monitoring them reduction in water usage by FY2015, all normalised to revenue against through our Safety Leading Indicator Activities Programme.
Where necessary, we adjust our baseline metrics to account for acquisitions and disposals.
Starting in FY2012, we added a safety leading indicator activity score as a KPI for safety, complementing the recordable incident rate In FY2010 we adopted a new reporting policy for our environmental RIR.
Sites with more than 50 employees are required to complete metrics, which expanded the number of sites required to report a minimum number of each of the following activities, which count environmental performance to the Group.
Previously, only towards their score: manufacturing sites with more than 50 employees had to report.
We now capture data from warehouses, service centres and ofces, and leadership safety training have reduced the size threshold to 20 employees.
We believe that leadership site safety tours these reporting changes provide us with a more comprehensive view of our environmental impact.
The environmental metrics for FY2010 employee safety accountability training are therefore slightly higher than FY2009, due to the inclusion of more employee safety inspection and communication events, and of our business from this revised policy.
Our environmental performance through FY2012 continued to be very favourable, compared to our baseline year of FY2010.
We have During FY2012, over 100 sites implemented these activities.
Sites achieved significant reductions in all metrics, already exceeding report their scores quarterly and are required to achieve annual our FY2015 goals.
Our intention is now to establish new multi-year targets.
Performance against Leading Indicator Targets is reviewed goals to reect this outperformance.
When analysing changes in our quarterly by the Executive Committee and the Board.
environmental metrics, absolute increases are mainly associated with Our FY2012 safety KPIs were the Safety Leading Indicator Activity higher production and acquired businesses and some decreases are Score, RIR and lost time incident rate LTIR.
Smiths Group and all its associated with site closures and consolidations, as well as improved divisions completed the required number of safety leading indicator recycling and energy conservation.
activities, which will support our efforts to improve our safety culture Performance against environment targets and risk management.
Target 2012 progress FY2010-FY2015 against FY2010 RIR and LTIR are measured per 100 employees per year.
A recordable incident is one where an employee requires medical attention beyond Energy 10% reduction first aid.
A lost-time incident is one which results in a lost work day over 5 years 16% reduction beyond the day of the incident.
All of our sites are required to report Greenhouse gas emissions 10% reduction recordable and lost time incidents to the Group each month.
over 5 years 19% reduction Since 2004, we have achieved a steady reduction in our RIR, with Total non-recycled waste 10% reduction FY2012 being our safest on record.
Our goal is to reach an RIR of 0.5 by over 5 years 18% reduction July 2013.
We also set annual progress targets, with our FY2012 target at 0.58.
We improved our RIR over the previous year, meeting our 0.58 Water consumption 5% reduction target excluding acquired sites.
When sites acquired during the year over 5 years 19% reduction are included our RIR of 0.60 is still our best on record.
Reduction targets are compared to the FY2010 baseline year and We have also continued to reduce our LTIR in recent years.
Our LTIR normalised to revenue consolidated at FY2012 exchange rates has dropped from 0.54 in FY2008 to 0.21 in FY2012.
Performance against safety targets FY2013 target 2012 result Recordable incident rate Better than 0.5 per 100 employees 0.60 Lost time incident rate No target 0.21 0.58 excluding recently acquired businesses Our employees recognise our commitment to health and safety.
In our Group-wide employee engagement surveys, workplace safety was the highest-scoring dimension, exceeding the studys worldwide benchmark for manufacturing industry.
Recordable incident rate Lost time incident rate 1.21 0.54 0.51 1.03 0.71 0.30 0.66 0.29 0.60 0.21 Where an employee requires Where an employee is unable medical attention beyond first aid to work the day after an incident 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 per 100 employees per year per 100 employees per year Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 61 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate responsibility Continued Total energy Total energy efficiency 305 111 303 295 107 105 105 285 000 MWh MWh m revenue 279 93 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions 124 45 121 121 43 43 42 115 000 Tonnes Tonnes m revenue 110 36 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Water use Water consumption 528 187 187 515 3 3 172 000m 485 m m revenue 170 465 462 154 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total non-recycled waste Total non-recycled waste 7.1 2.5 000 Tonnes Tonnes m revenue 2.3 2.2 6.2 6.1 6.1 2.1 5.5 1.8 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Note: Environmental metrics are normalised to revenue consolidated at FY2012 exchange rates Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 62 Employees Communication We believe in providing our employees with opportunities to develop Communication is crucial to helping employees engage with the their talent and to contribute to the business in which they work.
The Group believes in good communication with employees We support them by investing in improved safety, upholding their and in promoting consultation, co-operation and teamwork on matters statutory rights and creating an ethical, supportive environment where of mutual concern.
colleagues are treated fairly and with respect.
Our current priorities are At business unit level, we communicate through team briengs, talent development, succession planning and employee engagement.
Many businesses have wellAdding value established forums for exchanging information and best practice, Throughout the Group, we are taking action to achieve the best as well as discussing current business issues including efficiency possible long-term performance for our shareholders.
We invest in initiatives, training and development, and EHS issues.
our peoples skills and capabilities, and expect them to reect that In European Union EU countries we have workplace information investment in their delivery of business results.
and consultation arrangements at our sites.
These link to the Smiths The Group periodically offers employees in the US and the UK Group European Forum, through which employee representatives opportunities to participate in share plans that enable them to benefit from across the EU meet annually to discuss transnational matters from increases in the Companys share price, aligning their interests with Group executives.
more closely with those of shareholders.
Employee engagement Career progression In FY2012, the Group conducted its second global My Voice employee As a global technology group, we offer a variety of ways for our people to engagement survey.
We partnered with Kenexa, a leading survey progress their careers, in line with their capabilities and performance.
provider, to ensure that responses were anonymous and to enable us We identify leaders and provide them with development tools and to conduct the survey in local languages.
We achieved a participation opportunities to support their career ambitions and our business rate of more than 91%.
We also recognise the need to balance internal development Results were measured against the global norms for manufacturing and promotion with external recruitment, where this is necessary to industry and were communicated at divisional, local and functional full our commitment to add value.
Action plans to address the most significant issues have been Diversity drawn up using focus groups and local champions.
We will repeat our It is our policy to provide equal employment opportunities.
The Group global surveys periodically, so we can monitor our progress.
recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of their Acquisition integration qualications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
In employment-related When new businesses are acquired, we implement plans to integrate decisions, the Group complies with all applicable anti-discrimination them into the Group, ensuring that our business ethics, employee requirements in the relevant jurisdictions, including those concerning development and EHS policies and programmes are well established.
matters of race, colour, national origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, religious belief, age, or physical or mental disability.
Communities We contribute to the communities in which we operate.
In addition to Disabled people are given full consideration for employment and providing jobs and boosting local economies, we support community subsequent training including re-training, if needed, for people who involvement through charitable giving and education initiatives.
have become disabled, career development and promotion on the Building strong community links also benets our business.
It helps basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
We endeavour to nd appropriate to enhance our reputation, foster employee engagement and attract alternative jobs for those who are unable to continue in their existing new employees.
We primarily manage these activities at a divisional level.
However, All the Groups employees are treated with respect and dignity.
the Group does offer some support to community and charitable Accordingly, any harassment or bullying is unacceptable.
The Group organisations at Group level.
We consider charities and organisations respects the right of each employee to join or not to join a trade union that demonstrate how a donation will enhance the well-being of people or other bona fide employee representative organisation.
through improved education, health and welfare or environment.
Succession management Projects local to our operational facilities or connected to our industries The Group operates a systematic  process are the main focus of our support.
During the financial year, the Group for leadership roles.
Our businesses identify leadership talent and made charitable donations of 570,000. development needs using a set of key competencies, common tools Controls on defence sales and a consistent language.
Senior management monitor development All sales and exports of defence equipment are undertaken in plans, to optimise effective succession.
accordance with international trade regulations and national Developing talent government export and approval procedures and regulations, We have a number of development programmes to evaluate and such as the International Trafc in Arms Regulation and the Export enhance core leadership competencies.
These programmes are Administration Regulations in the USA.
These laws prohibit export of tailored to address a wide range of learning styles, incorporating certain items to specic countries.
The Group adheres to all relevant workshops, experiential learning, mentoring, team working and government guidelines designed to ensure that products are not project experience.
incorporated into weapons or other equipment used for the purposes of terrorism or abuse of human rights, with internal controls to ensure For employees to add value, we have to ensure they are properly compliance with these guidelines.
engaged with and committed to the business.
We provide training and development that represent an investment in both their future FTSE4Good and ours.
We also offer a safe and responsible working environment The FTSE4Good Index acknowledges companies that meet globally that encourages mutual respect, provides opportunities for personal recognised corporate responsibility standards.
The Group continues growth and rewards individual and team contributions that realise to be awarded membership of the index.
While we are not complacent value for the business.
about the ongoing work required, we were pleased to receive this external recognition of our CR initiatives and business ethics programme.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 63 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
