CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 30 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO is committed to high standards of ethical business conduct and to managing its operations responsibly and sustainably.
31 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility at SOCO Our business creates value for society through Our Approach investment in developing countries, providing stimulus OUR GUIDING SOCO International is committed to being a positive for local economies, the creation of jobs, training for presence in the countries where we operate, guided local people, investment in social projects, payment of PRINCIPLE: by a responsible approach to oil and gas exploration fees and taxes to host governments and the and production.
preservation of the natural environment.
A NET POSITIVE Our commitment to corporate responsibility is an Our international oil and gas interests are in Vietnam, CONTRIBUTION integral part of our business strategy: the Republic of Congo Brazzaville and the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC.
Recognising opportunity relies on building Many of our operations, specically those in Africa, strong relationships and being welcomed as a Our business is guided by an are at the earliest stages of exploration prior to the responsible partner by host governments and local overarching principle: to make a onset of drilling or production activities.
net positive contribution through balancing the needs for energy The most material change operationally in 2012 was Capturing potential means applying our security, economic development, the coming on stream of a second part of the TGT oil expertise, particularly in the management of risks eld in Vietnam.
The operator is the Hoang Long Joint social improvement and protection such as health and safety, security and Operating Company.
SOCOs inuence is through our environmental issues.
membership of the operators Management Committee as well as through the organisations key Realise value through locking in returns also senior staff members that are SOCO secondees.
We creates value for society.
Our guiding principle is to recognise that the changes to our activity in 2012 make a net positive contribution.
need to impact our approach to reporting.
For the first Our three-part core Access to Host country strategy expresses our investment revenue opportunities corporate responsibility 3.
1. commitment Realising Recognising value opportunity Operating Relationship A successful project revenue building can transform not only Host country Economic revenue stimulation a company but also the Taxes and Early entry economic and social well fees into regions being of a host country Our core by contributing to its strategic objectives ability to produce and Commitment Capital supply its own natural to local Expenditure economies resources.
Social and Economic community stimulation projects We recognise that built Skills and Operational expertise management into the heart of this 2. opportunity is the Capturing business imperative potential to act responsibly.
Training Local programmes employment 32 S St tr rategic ategic Re Revie view w Busines Business s Revie Review w C Co or rp por orate ate Responsi Responsib biilliit ty y G Go ov five er rn finance ance Fi Financial financial S St tatement atements s Add Additional itional Inform Information ation SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Governance time this year, we have included greenhouse gas Creating value for emissions reported from the Joint Operating Our commitment to creating a net positive contribution requires us to put in place robust Companies see Environmental Management.
host countries and systems and processes to govern our corporate local communities, Partnership and Influence responsibility programmes.
We partner with host governments through their state responsibly oil companies in all of our projects, as well as with This enables us to live out our values on the ground, other companies.
We believe that this partnership monitor our progress and learn from our experiences approach brings benets to both parties.
Our strategic alliances mean that our portfolio The Chief Executive officer is responsible for our Oil and gas companies have a central role in varies by: corporate responsibility performance.
Relevant issues todays global energy supply.
SOCO International are considered by the Board through a specic item can be a powerful force for economic a our degree of ownership on the agenda at each meeting.
Through our business, we create b our level of operatorship day-to-day implementation is through our country jobs, provide training and skills and support local managers, led by the Chief Operating officer.
Our guiding principle is applied across all of our effectiveness of our risk management and controls projects.
But our ability to inuence and implement over our corporate responsibility programme is A successful project can transform not only a programmes varies between projects.
formally assessed annually and reviewed periodically company, but also the economic and social by the Audit Committee.
wellbeing of a host country by contributing to its Where we are the operator, our inuence is high.
ability to produce and supply its own natural Where we are a minority owner and non-operator, we resources.
We recognise that built into the heart seek to inuence our partners to integrate responsible of this opportunity is the business imperative to business practices into the project.
SOCO is committed to conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner and ensuring that the health and safety of people and the protection of the environment remain a business priority.
Our goal is to be a positive presence whereby we Our approach build sustainable value for the host countries and HIGH local communities, as well as for our own to corporate High degree Moderate degree of inuence shareholders.
responsibility of inuence We implement our We seek to is tailored to approach to corporate inuence others responsibility individual Ed Story projects based President and Chief Executive officer on our degree of influence Low degree of inuence Moderate degree We seek to make our of inuence views heard and ensure We seek to minimum standards inuence others are met LOW Degree of ownership LOW HIGH Block Ownership Operatorship O Marine XI: Congo Brazzaville 40.39% Operator SOCO O Nganzi Block: Western DRC 65.00% Operator SOCO O Block V: Eastern DRC 85.00% Operator SOCO O Block 9-2: Vietnam 25.00% Joint Operating Company O Block 16-1: Vietnam 30.50% Joint Operating Company O Cabinda North Block: Angola 17.00% Non-Operator 33 Level of operatorship SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility at SOCO continued Human Rights Commitment SOCOs commitment to the fundamental principles of human rights is embedded in our HSES polices and throughout our business processes.
We promote the core principles of human rights pronounced in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights UDHR.
We shall honour the internationally accepted labour standards of the International Labour Organisation ILO and be guided by the ILO Tripartite declaration of principles concerning multinational enterprises and social policy MNE Declaration.
We support and respect the protection of human rights within our sphere of inuence.
This sphere extends across our internal and external business environment encompassing our own workers and reaching out to our supply chain, affected communities and other stakeholders.
We respect the indigenous rights and cultures of the communities within our host countries as dened within the ILO Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention C169.
We recognise the importance of engaging with our communities and set up local engagement programmes in all areas of operation.
We have developed processes of engagement and procedures for addressing concerns and grievances.
Engaging with Stakeholders We engage with stakeholders at an international, national and local level in order to better understand different viewpoints, listen to local concerns, adapt our programmes to meet local Business Conduct and Ethics We follow a process of continually updating this system needs and communicate the activity that SOCO is undertaking.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics sets out our to ensure that it reects the most important issues for values of honesty and fairness and promoting trust the company, and anticipates any future risks.
Our stakeholders include: local communities amongst those with whom we work.
It applies to all our For example, during 2012, we continued to focus operations, irrespective of our level of ownership and attention on procedures, guidelines and staff where we operate: host governments and local authorities: our employees, contractors and control, and also extends to contractors and agents.
awareness in light of the UK Bribery Act and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
We are now reviewing business partners: and our shareholders and the investment community.
We consider environmental, ethical, health, security how to strengthen the integration of biodiversity and and safety criteria in our selection of suppliers and human rights into our HSES management system to We have a formal process of stakeholder joint venture partners and have upgraded our ensure that our systems remain t for purpose.
This contracts to ensure that suppliers have read and includes, for example, working with our partners in engagement in place to meet with local communities and we set shared goals with understood our approach.
Vietnam in preparation for the mandatory reporting of carbon emissions in 2014. community representatives, ensuring that we get feedback on our approach.
Where we do not We implement our Code through our Health, Safety, Environment, Social and Security HSES We remain vigilant in enforcing the standards set out in directly control an operation, we work with our partners to ensure that communities in and management system which covers ethical, social our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
If an and environmental issues.
allegation of misconduct is reported to us, it will always around our operations are engaged.
During 2012, we also invested in a new whistleblowing mechanism to ensure employees can report any concerns in a condential manner through an Ethics Hotline which went live in early January 2013.
34 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Environmental Management Exemplary Health and Safety Record in Vietnam Our most significant environmental impacts come from The Hoang Long and Hoan Vu Joint Operating our operations in Vietnam which are at the development Companies, operators of the Te Giac Trang and production phase.
TGT and the Ca Ngu Vang CNV elds, respectively, currently together make up the The Hoang Long and Hoan Vu Joint Operating second largest producer of oil in Vietnam.
Companies, which are the respective operators of Block 16-1 and Block 9-2, have reported emissions resulting SOCOs inuence is expressed through its from the consortiums oil and gas production in 2012 membership of the operators Management as 154,567 tonnes of CO equivalent in 2012.
2 Committees as well as through the organisations key senior staff members, We are mindful of the impacts of climate change and including the senior managers and technical we are reducing aring from our oil platforms and personnel that are SOCO secondees.
capturing liquids from our rigs to use as fuel by feeding it back into the system.
By creating a closed loop, we The TGT project alone has accumulated over can reduce our energy requirements, cut our costs and five million manhours with zero lost time decrease our environmental footprint.
This is a record of which we are proud and demonstrates how we bring our All wastewater and sewage generated from our drilling expertise and skills in risk management to rigs and vessels was successfully treated prior to facilitate natural resource extraction in a discharge throughout the year.
All solid wastes were responsible manner that creates value for collected, segregated and transported to shore in all involved.
Our operations in Africa are at the exploration stage and therefore do not produce significant carbon impacts.
However, we are mindful of high levels of interest in any potential future environmental impacts in the Virunga 5 million man hours National Park.
accumulated on the TGT and CNV projects without a LTI Safety and Training There were no Lost Time Injuries LTIs during 2012 to our staff in any of our operations worldwide and the 0LTIs Lost Time Injury Frequency was nil.
We continued to undertake regular training in Health in 2012 and Safety for all staff, including training drills for oil spills and participating in safety campaigns in Vietnam.
We have expanded our training in anti-bribery to all There were no members of staff, including feedback and monitoring.
Lost Time Injuries In Africa in 2012, we provided a wide range of formal training courses to our local workforce, including in during 2012 to leadership, first aid, accountancy and contracts.
Whilst much of this training takes place locally, we also our staff in any provide access to world-class international courses.
of our operations worldwide and the Lost Time Injury Frequency was nil.
35 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility at SOCO continued Environmental Management in Virunga National Park conducted commercial activities can help As part of our original application to the government in SOCO IN alleviate the poverty and instability that has 2011, we undertook a full environmental impact study.
pervaded the region for decades and which Further to its Strategic Environmental Evaluation, the VIRUNGA are catalysts for activities that directly government of the DRC issued its Environmental threaten the natural environment, such as Acceptability Certicate and approved our plans for AND THE poaching, bush meat and charcoal trading, an aerial survey.
Carefully DRC managed operations and collaboration with As part of any aerial survey, we have put in place plans other organisations and agencies involved in to carry out several further environmental baseline the area can assist in providing a measure studies, such as an inventory of hippopotami, and sh of stability to a region even in the short and mollusc studies on Lake Edward.
Moreover, a successful project can have been determined through close collaboration with transform the economic and social wellbeing the Congolese Wildlife Authority ICCN and the Congo The Government of the Democratic Republic of the residents: support the DRCs capacity Environmental Studies Group GEEC.
of Congo DRC has designated Block V for to produce and supply its own natural the purpose of oil and gas exploration.
resources: create jobs: and provide training, The aerial survey itself will involve a helicopter ying Although our activities are at the preliminary skills and investment in local communities.
over Lake Edward and the adjacent lowland savannah stages of exploration and no drilling is taking to gather magnetic and gravity information.
The place, nor has been planned, we recognise In the event that our involvement does not helicopter will not touch down in the Virunga National that there is interest in how our activities will extend into the development or production Park.
The Mikeno Sector that forms the Mountain affect the livelihoods, ora and fauna of this phase, we are committed, as we are in all Gorilla habitat is neither within the helicopter ight path section of the Virunga National Park.
areas in which we operate, to ensuring that nor our concession in Block V. We envisage there being our presence has an overall positive impact.
no significant environmental impact from this aerial Block V principally comprises an area survey.
around Lake Edward and specically Engaging on Virunga excludes the entirety of the Mikeno Sector, During 2012, we engaged, both Looking ahead, depending on the results of this survey which forms the habitat of the famous through face-to-face meetings and and the security situation, we will consider a seismic Mountain Gorillas habitat.
SOCO will never correspondence, with representatives from programme to map the geology.
Whilst some seek to have operations in the Virunga international organisations including companies use explosives, SOCO has ruled out doing Volcanoes or the Virunga equatorial forest.
UNESCO, WWF, and Global Witness, and so for seismic exploration.
Instead, we plan to use local environmental non-governmental compressed air from a boat which has minimal impact At the invitation of the DRC government, organisations both in London and in eastern on marine wildlife.
SOCO submitted an environmental and DRC, to better understand their perspectives social impact assessment in 2011 and this and explain our activities.
Our activity throughout this stage is being overseen by was approved.
An aerial survey was planned a DRC government-appointed Environmental Monitoring for 2012 but the deteriorating security At a local level, we continued a programme Committee which is made up of representatives from situation in the area means that this has of visiting local communities on and near the the DRC Ministry of the Environment, Nature been postponed.
shores of Lake Edward to better understand Conservation and Tourism, one delegate from GEEC their needs and explain our operations in and two from the ICCN.
SOCO has been granted access to the their area.
We were accompanied on these Virunga National Park under an agreement visits by the Congolese Wildlife Authority in We are committed to continuing to provide transparent with The Congolese Wildlife Authority also their capacity as independent monitors.
We information on the environmental impacts of our known as Institut Congolais pour la held over 10 villager meetings in 2012 and operations in Virunga and contributing to government Conservation fide la Nature or ICCN, which found the response to be very positive to and scientific understanding of how best to balance the exists to protect the park, its biodiversity this engagement.
needs for energy development, economic development and its people.
SOCO pays a fee to the ICCN and environmental protection.
to monitor our activities whilst inside the We are committed to continuing the dialogue park and contribute towards the cost of with all those stakeholders who have an providing rangers.
interest in our operations in Block V in order to better understand their concerns, correct Conict and poverty are major challenges inaccuracies and reassure local communities.
We believe that responsibly Further information on how we are working with local communities and minimising our environmental impact is detailed in the relevant sections, and more information is available on our website.
com 36 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 In Angola in 2012, SOCO and its partners supported the construction of a medical centre at Simu-li-Conde located in the north west of our Cabinda North Block.
In Vietnam, we contributed to a wide range of projects with our joint venture partners during the year, with a particular focus on education.
We also assisted with funds to support a medical centre, disaster relief, road construction and tree planting.
Tax We recognise that interest is growing in how much tax companies pay, and where they pay it, particularly for multinational companies in the extractives sector.
As an international oil exploration and production company, we pay taxes and other levies in the countries in which we operate.
During the exploration phase, such as in the DRC, this includes host country taxes on property, employment and consumption.
It also includes any considerations for a particular Above: During 2012, SOCO contributed to a charitable programme in Vietnam that provided shoes for school children concession, such as bonus payments and licence fees.
At the onset of production, we additionally contribute through applicable taxes on profit, royalties on children, the elderly, destitute women and the production and the Governments entitlement share Social Investment Our business success depends on building and disabled.
SOCO has sponsored several community of production.
projects including a youth training programme and a maintaining the support of the local communities where we operate.
We invest directly in communities childrens tennis training course.
Although all of our operations are outside the UK, our corporate headquarters are located in London.
in and around our projects and seek to ensure that support for local communities features in all of our We continued in our support of communities around Accordingly, we pay the relevant UK taxes related the Nganzi Block in the Bas Congo of western DRC.
primarily to property and payroll.
Additionally, we are contracts with host governments and joint venture partners.
In addition to the social projects mandated Major activity in 2012 included working with Heal subject to profit tax in the UK in the case that the profit Africa to support victims of sexual abuse: early HIV taxes paid overseas are at a lower rate than the rate of in our contracts, we make additional, voluntary contributions to local causes.
This is because we AIDs testing: and supporting children orphaned corporation tax in the UK.
In eastern DRC where SOCOs believe that strong, healthy and vibrant communities are good for the long-term success of our business.
activities are still in the preliminary stages, SOCO We are committed to the Extractive Industries sponsored a male and female football tournament in Transparency Initiative EITI in both Congo Brazzaville During 2012, we focused on education and medical Ishasha in eastern DRC, which included support not and the DRC.
We participate in all EITI forums for those only at a corporate level, but also through SOCO countries and annually provide details of all payments themes in our investments, through a series of projects in which we have built long-term relationships.
personnel being present and working closely with the to or on behalf of the government, which are local population to prepare the pitch.
In Congo Brazzaville, the major project In recognition that SOCO and its partners had paid accomplished with our partners in 2012 was the construction of a maternity clinic at Madingo-Kayes, over and above US$50 million in taxes to the Vietnam SOCO and its partners Government during 2011, the HCMC Peoples 55 kilometres from Pointe-Noire.
The project included the provision of medical equipment, have contributed approx Committee gave an award to SOCO, the proceeds of medicines, a water well with a tank for storage and a which were donated to a charitable programme power generator.
We also completed a number of our providing shoes for school children.
longer term projects in the country, including construction of a water storage tank and delivery to Tax is just one part of the economic impact and value $2.5M the Petites Soeurs des Pauvres organisation in that we create.
By partnering with host governments Brazzaville, and the drilling of a water well and with an equity stake in projects through their national towards social projects in installation of solar panels at the Anne-Marie oil companies, our business success contributes to Congo and DRC since the Javouhey clinic in Pointe Noire.
We also support a local government coffers in additional ways.
The jobs projects began number of charities providing care for orphaned we create, salaries we pay and training we provide are all part of our approach to creating value for all our stakeholders, responsibly.
