spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 corporate social responsibility statement Sustainable value Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Spirent conducts its business and we are committed to advancing our policies and systems across the Group to ensure that we address all aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility our responsibility framework for CSR with a fundamental commitment to create and sustain long term value for Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted shareholders, recognising that acting ethics responsibly and sustainably creates in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to all dealings value.
Spirents CSR strategy covers our accountability to all of our stakeholders, with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
this includes striving for the highest ethical standards of business practice: Spirent is its employees.
To sustain our competitive employees how we support, develop and reward our advantage, the Group maintains an environment where employees: how we minimise our impact all employees can develop to their fullest potential, on the environment: and how we support have the opportunity to give back to their communities, and engage in the communities in which and advance their careers.
Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and safety health and safety performance and is also committed to employee wellbeing by encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles by its staff members.
The Group is committed to the concepts of pollution Sustainability prevention, minimising environmental impacts and and ecoefficiency.
environmental Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global community communities through education, charitable donations and support of nonprofit agencies in the communities in which we operate.
32 overview business review governance financial statements we aim to be a responsible partner Investing in our employees For more than 75 years, Spirent has ethics within our local communities: and employees are encouraged and sustained a globally effective organisation and provided a great place to work through supported to report, in confidence, Spirent expects that all of its business is any suspected wrongdoings career advancement opportunities conducted in compliance with high ethical resulting in more than 8 per cent of whistleblowing.
We apply employees receiving a promotion in 2012, these standards to all dealings with workforce diversity and transparent Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as employees, customers, suppliers and part of the Groups internal control process.
To find, keep and bring other stakeholders.
During 2012, Spirents out the best in our people, we constantly employees were again clearly reminded of the review and improve our benefits, standards expected of them by the regular employees retention, development programmes communication and explanation of Spirents and career growth opportunities to ensure Vision, Mission and Values statements.
that Spirent remains a great place to work.
Spirent is its people Spirent understands that the key to success Spirent has continued to ensure that all its At Spirent there are several reward and is centered on our employees and that one systems, controls and training comply with recognition programmes.
One way we of our primary responsibilities in CSR is to the antibribery and corruption legislation reward and recognise excellence is through the people who are Spirent.
We rely on our in all the countries where we operate and our Global Recognition Programme, which highly skilled, motivated and empowered that a culture of prevention and detection provides Spot, Excellence and Executive employees to drive the growth of our of all forms of bribery and corruption is in Awards.
These awards are onetime cash business.
This policy applies to Spirents incentives as recognition for exemplary working in over 25 locations in more subsidiaries and business partners.
contributions that demonstrate one or more than 12 countries, provide a matchless of our key values.
Spirent also provides competitive advantage for us creating The Groups Ethics Policy, which has project based incentives to recognise and innovative products for our customers.
been approved by the Board, is available reward employees for extraordinary work on our website at www.
that results in significant overachievement To sustain our competitive advantage and Our Ethics Policy has been developed of critical projects.
Spirents Patent Award bring together this culturally diverse group to ensure that the Groups business is programme rewards employees for of employees, Spirent has built a global conducted in adherence with high ethical being innovative, while protecting the culture based on four values being and legal principles and sets standards Companys investment and intellectual creative, competitive, customer focused of professionalism and integrity for all property rights.
These values form the employees and operations worldwide.
foundation of Spirents ability to inspire Spirent believes in sharing its success innovation and enrich the lives of millions The following is a summary of the with its employees, with all employees of people around the world.
Ethics Policy: participating in some form of variable Employees by geographic location compensation tied to the achievement all employees have the right and continuing operations of key goals such as revenue growth responsibility to ensure that Spirents and profitability: Growth Sharing Plan for 1 business is conducted with high ethical individual contributors through managers: 3 and legal principles: Sales Commission Plan for sales our policy is to operate within employees: and Management Incentive applicable laws: Plan for senior managers and above.
discrimination or harassment of any 2 kind will not be tolerated: Our challenging work environment inspires as a matter of policy, we do not make innovation, with continuous learning as an political donations: no bribes shall be given or received: 1 North America 64% conflicts of interest must be avoided: 2 Asia 23% 3 Europe 13% 33 spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 corporate social responsibility statement CONTINuED Celebrating our diversity Spirent is committed to upholding human rights and fully believes that diversity fuels business success in a multicultural world.
Our rich diversity is reflected in our work environment including ethnicity, race, gender, age, sexual orientation, faith, culture and global experiences.
We believe that this variety of backgrounds, experiences, beliefs, personalities, knowledge, skills and ideas not only creates an enriching experience for our employees, diversity also yields the innovation and creativity demanded by our customers.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful discrimination on the basis of religion, disability, gender, age, marital status, Toastmasters@Centennial Campus, in Raleigh NC, was started in 2011 and is one of five Toastmasters International sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or clubs at Spirent.
essential part of our human resources and providing competitive compensation philosophy.
In 2012, career development and benefits programmes.
Our efforts health and safety centered on the individual, providing continue to bear positive fruit, with global a variety of education and learning voluntary turnover at 8 per cent, a result The Chief Financial Officer is the opportunities over time in a number of that stands out among our competitors director appointed by the Board to have different ways.
Senior leaders participated where turnover in the high tech industry responsibility for the health and safety in the Leadership 360 Feedback averages over 10 per cent.
No major health Programme and employees completed over and safety issues were reported by the 500 hours of elearning on a wide range of Spirent believes that access to health care Chief Financial Officer to the Audit technical and business topics.
In our Asia benefits is a fundamental responsibility Committee and Board during the year.
Pacific region, employees participated to our employees.
Results from our most in technical workshops, lunch and learn recent Employee Opinion Survey showed The health and safety risk profile of the sessions, and one of five Toastmasters a marked increase in satisfaction with Group improved again in 2012 with the International clubs at Spirent.
Around the world disposal of the Systems division, which launched the new Spirent Learning Center in all of our locations, we align employee was the only division within Spirent which on our intranet, which offers information needs with the healthcare and wellness had not completely outsourced all its on career management, tools for managers, options available in each country that manufacturing.
The new businesses and resources for new employees.
are both comprehensive and competitive.
acquired by Spirent in 2012, Mu Dynamics In the united States, where more than and Metrico Wireless, both have the same Engaging our employees 60 per cent of our employees reside, health and safety environment as the rest Spirent understands, like all businesses, we offer competitive health care benefits, of the continuing Spirent Group.
The main it must work tirelessly to keep our talent including medical, dental and vision, to all risks of the Group continue to be based in an increasingly competitive industry.
employees and their spouses or qualifying around final test and assembly of products Thats why we seek to connect with, and samesex and oppositesex domestic and working environment issues such as support, our employees in many ways partners and dependents.
ergonomics and Repetitive Strain Injury.
including transparent communication, showing appreciation for a job well done, 34 overview business review governance financial statements The Group continued to have very low programme and appropriate resources are accommodating employees, IT systems and travel.
Business units across the accident rates in 2012 and no incidents made available for this purpose.
Group continue to take measures to reduce impacts, including improved space Sustainability and The Group health and Safety Policy places utilisation, sensor controls of equipment and recycling programmes.
The Group has also responsibility for the management of environmental health and safety on local management continued to reduce total floor space used: who are supported by local external The Group has made significant progress advisers where necessary.
It is the Groups Percentage reduction of square feet used in 2012 in integrating sustainability and compared to previous year policy that each business unit should have environmental strategy into its operations 2012 2011 a senior individual designated as being and in continuing to improve environmental responsible for ensuring the business unit % 4.2 13.7 performance.
In addition to continuing with conforms to local statutory health and existing initiatives on space utilisation, safety regulations as well as the Group During 2012 we installed two electric logistics and power consumption in Policy.
An annual questionnaire on health vehicle charging stations at Spirent offices products, the Group has also begun and safety performance is completed by in Sunnyvale, California.
These charging to implement the recommendations of our business units and any issues are stations are available to the general public a major review of environmental strategy addressed and resolved.
Independent as well as Spirent employees and the that was commissioned in 2011. external reviews of the Companys health charging points are already being well and safety performance are conducted used.
Charging stations at additional Environmental Policy and compliance annually at selected business units.
Spirent locations will be installed The Group Environmental Policy applies Regular designated health and safety where there is demand for their use.
to the Company and to all subsidiaries awareness training programmes are worldwide.
It commits the Group to also carried out.
having introduced video conferencing prevention and control of pollution, into the Group in 2010, we invested further minimising environmental impacts, Spirent recognises the importance that in 2012, increasing the number of sites ecoefficiency, and to adopt responsible health and safety is managed to high covered and the quality of the user environmental practices.
standards successfully throughout all experience.
Spirent is confident that video levels of the organisation.
Successful conferencing has reduced travel across The Group is also committed health and safety management the Group but it is difficult to quantify to compliance with all applicable contributes to Spirents overall success the benefit definitively.
environmental regulation in all of by preserving and developing staff and the jurisdictions in which we operate.
physical resources, thereby reducing Almost all of our products continue costs and liabilities.
It is an essential to be produced by external contract To meet these objectives, the Group element of its corporate responsibility.
manufacturers and we monitor the endeavours to continuously improve environmental performance of our suppliers environmental performance and to make Spirent is committed to continually through audits and surveys.
Our largest robust environmental management improving its health and safety contract manufacturer is responsible for integral to its overall strategy.
performance and to employee wellbeing approximately 66 per cent of our production by encouraging the adoption of healthier and they have an ISO 14001 certified The full policy can be found at lifestyles by its staff members.
Regulatory environmental management system, www.
com in the Corporate requirements and the outline of care form alongside an extensive carbon reduction Responsibility section.
the basis upon which Spirents commitment programme.
The table overleaf shows their is achieved.
By realistic planning, review performance in reducing emissions for the As in previous years, the Groups main and development, Spirent maintains a last two years for which data is available.
direct environmental impacts result from successful health and safety management offices, laboratories and assembly sites 35 spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 corporate social responsibility statement CONTINuED Percentage reduction of C0 emission over Group to make greater efforts to integrate Review of existing Group environment 2 previous year sustainability into overall strategy, based and ethics policies.
2011 2010 on greater visibility of the material issues Development of sustainability % 11.9 6.1 for our business.
The following material issues were Paignton: low carbon center of excellence Product design and manufacturing identified in this review: The Positioning site, located in Paignton, processes take into consideration the uK, has had an ISO 14001 certified recycling and disposal of products at the Greenhouse gas emissions and environmental management system for end of their life, as far as is possible.
several years and has a good track record Product design also seeks to reduce power Energy consumption in offices in improving environmental performance.
For our 10Gb Ethernet For this reason, the site was selected to and manufacturing.
products, the following reductions have Environmental management.
act as a low carbon center of excellence for been achieved.
the Group, piloting a number of initiatives Environmental reporting.
As a result, a wide range of Percentage reduction of power potential low carbon technologies and The key environmental issues were consumption of 10GbE products over energy consumption and greenhouse gas services have been assessed for this site, previous year and financial, environmental and strategic emissions and these have been the focus 2012 2011 of the Groups efforts in 2012. business cases have been developed for % 33 20 suitable candidate technologies.
The key The Group has made great progress outcomes from this project are: Our business units comply with the A 15 per cent reduction in unit costs to date in setting the framework to Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment proactively manage and improve of electricity.
Regulations, the Batteries Directive and Identification of further potential sustainability performance.
This review the California Electronic Waste Recycling of the issues material to the Group has energy cost savings of 25 per cent Programme.
New products are designed based on technology and better positioned Spirent to set a clear strategic to meet the Restriction of hazardous course in leveraging sustainable business energy management.
Substances Directive RohS, also known Investment in a solar photovoltaic thinking to improve overall performance, as Directive 2011 65 Eu, even though and this has been the main theme of the system that will generate 10 per cent Spirent Communications hardware of annual electricity consumption work in this area in 2012. products are classified as Category Nine, at the site.
Monitor and Control Equipment and Business cases have been developed 2012 work programme are therefore currently out of scope The work over the course of 2012 has for the following low carbon with the RohS Directive.
All Spirent technologies with positive NPV and focused on defining the specific tools Communications hardware products will and methodologies that will add value payback under ten years.
It is expected be in compliance with the RohS Directive that these will be implemented in 2013: in driving forward the Groups strategic at such time they are brought in to scope.
This has also built Insulation under the uKs mandatory carbon emission Voltage optimization on the existing culture of environmental trading scheme CRC Energy Efficiency management at the Paignton site by using Air conditioning and heating system Scheme, Spirent is only required to upgrades this location as a center of excellence and make an information disclosure.
proving ground for the Group, piloting LED lighting certain key initiatives.
Environment strategy low carbon site assessment toolkit Following a comprehensive review of our A toolkit has been developed which The 2012 work programme comprised: sustainability strategy and management in can be used at sites across the Group 2011 we have an enhanced understanding to identify carbon and energy savings.
Development of a low carbon center of of the impacts that we have on the excellence at the site at Paignton, uK.
This toolkit will be trialled at a number environment and on the communities in of Group sites globally in 2013.
Development of a low carbon site which we operate.
This has spurred the assessment toolkit.
36 overview business review governance financial statements group environmental and ethics policies In China, we offered the internship The Group environment and ethics policies community opportunities to 26 students from top have been reviewed against leading universities in China, including the Beijing standards ISO 14001 Environment university of Posts and Telecommunications Giving back to the communities where our and ISO 26000 Corporate Responsibility BuPT and Beihang university Beijing employees and customers live and work in order to ensure that all of the issues in university of Aeronautics & Astronautics.
Because its not enough to be a great these areas are properly addressed in line In 2012, Spirent provided scholarships to ten Company, Spirent supports a variety of with the constantly evolving legislation students attending BuPT, all of whom will worthy causes to be a great neighbour too.
and best practice in the field.
join Spirent as interns as part of their college Spirent supports technical education and education in electrical engineering.
local charitable programmes, and group sustainability management encourages employee volunteerism and processes In the uK, uS and India, Spirent provided participation within the communities The Groups existing management internship opportunities to more than 20 where they live and work.
procedures for environmental and engineering degree candidates.
We also sustainability were reviewed and toolkits hired an additional 11 college interns in building talent for the 21st century were developed to ensure that all of our nonengineering functions, including To help students prepare for the global sites continue to meet Group policy finance, manufacturing and marketing.
communication revolution of the 21st requirements and to improve performance.
century, the Group has been actively The toolkits cover the identification and In addition to internships, our managers working with local public and private management of environmental impacts routinely work with local universities nonprofit educational organisations.
and of legal and regulatory requirements.
As one example, Throughout 2012, we continued to support These will be trialled at a number of global our uK management team participated education by offering internships and work sites during 2013. in Employability Week at South Devon experience programmes that not only help College where they helped students students develop professional knowledge 2013 work programme understand how to write a CV and present but also provide future talent for our In 2013, the emphasis will be on utilising entire organisation.
the experiences gained in 2012 and the lessons learned at Paignton to deliver value across the Group.
The most financially and environmentally effective tools and measures identified in 2012 will be rolled out to selected sites across the Group.
This will sit alongside the trialling of the Group management processes discussed above.
In addition to the specific measures that will be trialled at a number of global sites, the Group will also seek to enhance internal and external reporting of sustainability metrics, with a focus on greenhouse gas emissions.
This is partly driven by the forthcoming requirement for uK quoted companies to report emissions in the Directors Report, but the Group also intends to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2013 and to have greater internal reporting on key Sunnyvale employees sorted and reboxed more than 10 tons of oranges at the Second harvest Food Bank.
37 spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 corporate social responsibility statement CONTINuED themselves at an interview.
In New Jersey, In total Spirent made charitable our manufacturing team participated cash donations of $118,000 in 2012 in ManufactureNJ, a NJ Advanced 2011 $111,000.
Manufacturing Talent Network grant, awarded to NJIT Continuing Professional Committing ourselves Education, by the New Jersey Department volunteerism at Spirent of Labor and Workforce Development.
Were proud of our employees, who Spirent managers met with over 200 generously donate their time, expertise, middle school, high school, and and money to many different organisations collegeaged students, along with their around the globe.
Our employees are faculty and administrators to discuss active volunteers in their communities, the variety of careers available in where they support a broad variety of manufacturing and the skills they causes, organisations, and activities will need to succeed.
ranging from health organisations, educational programmes, food banks and Building strong communities by helping environmental causes.
They serve in many those in need different ways: as fundraisers, board Spirent has a long history of supporting members, coaches and mentors.
our local communities and helping those in need.
Throughout 2012, the Group Our employees not only donate their time continued to provide aid to charitable and they enthusiastically embrace the true spirit of volunteerism in their local nonprofit organisations through corporate sponsorships and contributions that communities.
Employees in our Crawley uK office participated in Movember, and enhance our local communities.
When the eastern seaboard of North America demonstrated their gallant support for mens cancer awareness by sprouting suffered devastating damage and injury due to the unprecedented impact of moustaches throughout the month of November.
Many of our employees around superstorm Sandy, Spirent responded to this urgent need with donations of the world volunteer to help feed the hungry.
Raleigh, North Carolina employees $10,000 to the American Red Cross and $7,500 to the K. I. D. S. hurricane Relief packaged 24,000 lifesaving meals that will be sent to support transformational Effort for disaster relief efforts.
Thankfully everyone in the Spirent family weathered development programmes in developing countries by Stop hunger Now.
Sunnyvale the storm pretty well and many of our Eatontown employees offered their talent California employees sorted and reboxed more than 10 tons of oranges at the and financial support to neighbouring communities who didnt fare as well.
These boxes are then sent to 740 sites, including food Our Calabasas team raised $20,350 for pantries, soup kitchens and shelters.
More than half the food Second harvest the American Cancer Societys Relay for Life.
Employees and their families from provides is fresh produce.
all departments participated in a 24hour walk, not only raising more than any of The Eatontown, New Jersey office supports the Salvation Armys Angel Tree Program, the other 46 companies and agencies participating, but also more than any which provides an opportunity to help local families and children in need during team in the history of the Calabasas Relay for Life.
38 governance Corporate governance 40 Board of directors 42 Report of the directors 44 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements 49 Directors statement on corporate governance 50 Report on directors remuneration 55 39
