28 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Report Main trends and factors likely to affect the future development and performance of the Groups businesses The Groups retail businesses will undoubtedly be affected by the economic climate and changes therein.
Movements in interest rates and exchange rates affect the businesses directly and consumer confidence and spending is affected by a wide range of factors including employment, tax and interest rates, house prices and the general feel-good factor: factors beyond the Groups inuence.
All of the above apply equally to our Brands businesses, both Later in this report, we comment on risks and uncertainties that wholesale and licensing.
Reduction in customer demand is reected relate to the Groups businesses and while we manage to reduce in the wholesaling and licensing business, as orders and royalties risks, where possible, the likelihood of their occurring and their are affected.
Moreover, in difficult economic times, suppliers come impact if they do, are factors that could inuence the Group or under increasing pressure to reduce their prices to their customers part of it.
and all suppliers run the risk of their customers ceasing to trade, The Group applies hedge accounting, which is in line with other reducing demand for their products.
difficult economic conditions major retailers.
This reduces an element of potential volatility in can also make it difficult for suppliers to obtain credit insurance reported profit.
in respect of some customers, leaving the supplier with a difficult question of whether or not to supply and, if they do, with the attendant risk of bad debts.
Employees In no small measure, the progress we continue to make is down to the dedication and expertise of c. 19,000 staff throughout the business.
I am delighted to take this opportunity to thank everyone in the team for their outstanding contribution and I look forward to working with them towards our further growth and success.
We have incentivised employees by enabling them to share in the We launched the 2011 Bonus Share Scheme this year to follow Groups success through the Bonus Share Scheme.
The Bonus on from the previous scheme.
It is a four year scheme based upon Share Scheme is focused on underlying EBITDA and is designed to achieving underlying EBITDA before the costs of the scheme of motivate colleagues, help improve retention of key employees and 215m in 2012, 250m in 2013, 260m in 2014 and 300m in to align the interests of employees and shareholders.
The Scheme 2015 along with the individual employees satisfactory personal is also aligned with the Groups business plan.
The scheme requires that all targets are met before the shares will vest.
The vesting periods will be summer 2015 The 2009 Bonus Share Scheme was in two stages.
The first approximately 8m shares and summer 2017 element is an award of shares, at 1.00 per share, to the value of approximately 22m shares.
The first bonus target was underlying EBITDA of 155m in 2009-10 and was achieved in that year.
The first award of 8m shares will vest for eligible employees in August 2012.
The second element is an award of shares, at 1.25 per share, to the value of 75% of base pay.
This second stage of the bonus was conditional upon the first bonus target being met in 2009-10, attaining underlying EBITDA of 195m in 2010-2011, and underlying EBITDA Net Debt ratio of two or less at the end of 2010-11.
All these targets were achieved in that year.
The shares vest, subject to continuous employment until then, in August 2013.
