61 Corporate Responsibility Report Meeting stakeholder needs and expectations is very important in the success of the Group.
This includes: customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the communities in which the Group operates.
A formal Corporate Responsibility policy was adopted and the Board is committed to applying and developing this policy at every level of the business.
As with previous years, the Group continued to focus on five key areas of Corporate Responsibility: Employees, Health and Safety, Customers, the Environment and the Community.
The Group has developed Key Performance Indicators KPIs in respect of these areas, which are further discussed in this report and in the Chief Executives Report on Page 19.
These KPIs are based solely on our UK operations.
This report examines each key area in turn, reviewing the current situation, the facts, gures and our successes to date.
Employees As the business continues to grow it is the skill and enthusiasm A pot of 30 million shares will be distributed between eligible of our c. 19,000 employees that are the key to its success.
Shares will vest as to 25% of an employees allocation in 2015 and 75% in 2017.
There will be the opportunity for In the UK, 94.0% of our employees work in our stores and in store employees to receive a further award under the Scheme which will management.
6.7% of the UK workforce work at our Shirebrook vest in 2019. campus, of which 4.4% work in our National Distribution Centre, and 2.3% in the Group Head Ofce, Finance, Buying, Brands, Retail There is a Staff Forum established at Head Ofce in Shirebrook.
Of our UK Workforce, 55% are male and 45% The Forum consists of elected representatives from all departments female.
Employee retention is one of our key KPIs.
This Year 17.5% and management representatives.
The Forum takes place on a of our UK employees left the business: the vast majority of them monthly basis and covers topics ranging from pay, holidays, hours, were employed on a part-time.
health and safety, working conditions, equipment needs and developments in and the performance of the business.
Employee retention is extremely important to retain expertise and as a measure of employee satisfaction.
The Board receives a monthly The Forum encourages open discussion and a Board member will report on the turnover of employees.
attend at least once a year.
Minutes of the Forums meetings are posted on notice boards and representatives are encouraged to Employees are rewarded with fair salaries together with the seek and reect the views of their constituents.
opportunity to earn additional pay in the form of bonuses.
Rates of pay are monitored against national statistics on an annual basis.
The Group recognises the right of employees to membership of a trade union and has entered into an agreement with the trade We believe that performance-based rewards are beneficial to union Unite in respect of collective bargaining of pay, hours of the success of the business and encourage greater employee work and holidays of certain groups of employees in the National involvement.
This policy starts with the Executive Directors and Distribution Centre.
ows down to all levels of the business.
The Group is committed to the equal treatment of its employees Following on from the success of the 2009 Bonus Share Scheme, and has formal policies in place that are reviewed on a regular the Group has launched the 2011 Bonus Share Scheme.
The Equal Opportunity and Diversity policies ensure that employees are treated as individuals, fairly and with respect If the Group attains the EBITDA targets detailed in the table below providing fair and equal opportunities to employees regardless and employees performance is deemed to be satisfactory, eligible of age, gender, ethnicity, social background, religion, disability employees will receive Sports Direct shares.
Criteria to satisfy 2011 bonus scheme: Every effort is made to provide disabled people with equal opportunities for work, training and promotion.
s Underlying EBITDA of 215m in 2012 Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full s Underlying EBITDA of 250m in 2013 and fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance with their s Underlying EBITDA of 260m in 2014 particular aptitudes.
Where an existing employee becomes disabled the business makes every effort to provide continued employment s Underlying EBITDA of 300m in 2015 in the same or similar job or by offering retraining in order that the employees employment within the Group may continue.
s Individual satisfactory employment performance There is a tailored employee handbook for each department.
Roll-out began in 2011 and this will be completed in 2013.
