62 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate Responsibility Report Employees Continued Training and development of employees is of great importance as it The Group works with adidas and Puma to compile robust training develops the skills of employees and helps increase efficiency.
programmes to support in-store initiatives and products.
In August 2012, 200 people will attend the adidas session and in October During 2011 12 the Staff Training and Development Department 2012, 150 people will attend the Puma session.
Dates coincide continued to use the Training Centre to provide state-of-the-art with the product releases for the Olympics and European facilities for the Groups employees to ourish into champions.
The objective of this is to give every member of our team the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered New managers and existing managers attend a two-week to do a better job.
residential induction programme at Shirebrook.
The programme covers a mixture of shop oor-based training and classroom State-of-the-art training facilities now available on the Shirebrook centred activities.
Typical subjects covered include merchandising, campus include: administration, delivery process, health and safety, shop closure process, product training, and retail business skills.
s Four specialised training environments s 251 managers attended induction training during the Year.
Running A five-day residential course was introduced with the specic aim Football to encourage existing employees to progress to management Womens positions.
SKU Sports Knowledge Underground s 25 employees have attended since August 2011. s 30 specialist Nike training days SKU have taken place since Managers responsible for the footwear department in their branch August 2010.
During 2011 2012, 13 days have taken place.
have been trained over 14 courses.
The Footwear Masterclass is a s 252 employees have now progressed to graduate level, 153 three-day residential course focusing on one of the key categories.
Typical subjects covered would include merchandising, staff efficiency, best practice, health and safety, policies and procedures.
s 64 graduates have also attended a bespoke post-graduate training day hosted by specialists in the elds of Running s 53 in the Year.
Training has extended to include our European teams between 2011 and 2012.
So far 23 managers have attended a two-week Sports Direct is the World Number One Nike trainer in terms of residential training programme in the UK, comprising teams from percentage completion for a multiple door retailer.
All salaried staff France, Portugal, Holland, Belgium, Iceland and Hungary.
are currently on an average of 92% completion.
100% completion represents a 15 hour investment of their time to learn about Nike product, Nike technology and how best to sell it.
Sports Direct also has access to the SKU app for any Apple hardware such as i-Phones i-Pads, and 25% of Sports Direct completion rate on SKU is via these devices.
Health and Safety The Group is committed to appropriate standards of health and The stores have an electronic reminder system implemented.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Group This ensures that amongst other things health and safety health and safety performance, and receives updates on incidents checks are carried out before the store can physically close at from the Head of Retail Operations on these matters.
the end of the working day.
This will, again, increase the prole of health and safety while improving the recording of such checks There were no environmental prosecutions or work-related and procedures.
fatalities in the business during FY12.
During the Year, 1,711 2011: 1,689 accidents across the Group were reported to Head Training is undertaken in-house by a team of qualied and Ofce, and of these, 65 2011:59 were reportable to the Health experienced health and safety ofcers.
Going forward the health and Safety Executive.
77% of accidents occurred within the stores and safety team will continue to train store employees and monitor and 25% were slips, trips and falls that occurred within the stores.
health and safety standards, and the Group is committed to The increase in accident gures has coincided with an increase in maintaining these standards.
The continued emphasis on health and safety training within the business has improved awareness of reporting procedures and recording of incidents under health and safety legislation.
