64 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate Responsibility Report community The Group continues to procure merchandise from manufacturers To date, over 1 million children have benefited from the programme, who can show that they uphold ethical employment and 45 percent of whom were girls.
Cricket equipment to the value trading practices.
of 250,000 has been supplied by Slazenger to enable the programme to run successfully.
The Group has a Code of Ethics that it requires every supplier to adhere to.
Amongst other matters the Code provides for Over 1,000 children worldwide are continuing to benefit from fair treatment of workers ensuring products are made in a safe Dunlops global D Squad talent support programme which continues to increase participation and performance levels of the environment, in accordance with all the relevant local and national laws to ensure workers are treated with respect and are paid fairly most talented juniors in tennis from around the world.
It also ensures there is no child labour and no use Dunlop also work in conjunction with its sponsored professional of illegal means or materials in the production of goods.
golfers Lee Westwood and Darren Clarke to supply clothing to their The Group has worked for many years with two leading supply respective Golf Schools, which provide qualied coaching and chain companies in Singapore and in South Korea to procure much mentoring to youngsters from across the UK.
Over 15,000 worth of its own brand goods.
of clothing has been donated to the schemes so far.
The Group believes that using their local knowledge, expertise and In the United States, Everlast, one of the Groups specialist ght experience, it benets the business and the communities in which sports brands, supports numerous initiatives.
Everlast is the ofcial they operate more effectively than if the Group carried on its own sponsor of USA Boxing, which is are the national governing body procurement activities in those countries.
Both companies have the of amateur Olympic-style boxing.
Each year Everlast supplies the highest social and business ethics codes which match our Code of not-for-profit organisation with training and competition apparel, Ethics, the BSCI Code of Conduct which is based upon the United footwear and equipment.
Everlast contributed $280,000 to support Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ISO9001 and the the men and womens teams that competed in the 2012 Olympic Social Accountability 8000 SA8000 Code.
The Group relies on those supply chain companies to inspect all Additionally, in 2012 Everlast will continue to support the New York suppliers and manufacturers premises.
Golden Gloves, the most prestigious grassroots boxing competition in the US.
Each year Everlast supply over $20,000 worth of apparel, Frequent inspections are carried out randomly at short notice to footwear and equipment to the 900 amateur men and women ensure that the goods meet the Groups quality standards as well boxers who participate.
as assessing continued compliance with SA8000 and the Groups Code of Ethics.
We immediately cease work with suppliers who do Everlast is also a major supporter of the Dr. Theodore A. Atlas not meet our criteria.
Foundation, a non-profit organisation that provides financial support to those in need, particularly children.
In 2011, Everlast made The Group complies with an internationally recognised list of charitable contributions of $14,000 and was present at the annual chemicals that are banned for use in fabrics.
The supply chain Atlas golf outing and the Atlas Foundation dinner.
companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to check that these Everlast has been a proud supporter of The Breast Cancer banned chemicals are not being used.
Each year, Everlast donates a proportion of sale proceeds from select Everlast pink The Group has forged long-term relationships with suppliers who products to help the foundation raise money for clinical and genetic have demonstrated that their work practices are consistent with research.
In 2011, Everlast donated $115,000, the largest donation the Groups standards.
Approximately 40% of the Groups current to date.
suppliers have been working with Group companies for 10 years or more.
Antigua golf apparel was once again appointed the ofcial apparel sponsor for all staff and ofcials of the prestigious Sime Darby Slazenger is the exclusive cricket equipment supplier to the LPGA 2011 Malaysia tournament, due to its solid reputation in countrys most recognised grassroots cricket development quality and performance.
Antigua is retailing at all 42 MST GOLF programme, Chance to Shine supported by Brit Insurance.
It retail outlets nationwide and a percentage of all apparel sales were is run by the Cricket Foundation charity and delivers individual donated to the Cancer Research Initiatives Research Foundation projects across England and Wales.
The projects provide structured CARIF and Breast Cancer Welfare Association of Malaysia coaching alongside a competition programme for a Group of BCWA, under MST Golf Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign.
schools that would not normally have the chance to participate MST Golf donated over RM 100,000 U$35,000 in the first year in the sport.
In 2011, Chance to Shine in its 6th year delivered alone, to be shared by both foundations from sales proceeds of qualied coaching sessions throughout 3,807 schools with 12,532 Antigua apparel.
Being an ardent supporter of this worthy cause, new club members achieved.
Subject to funding, the programme MST Golf has decided to extend its Breast Cancer Awareness will reach one third of all primary and secondary schools and Campaign for another year until next years event in October.
By support two million young people by 2015. taking a proactive stand, the company intends to work closer with CARIF and BCWA in 2012 with activities such as seminars and in-store campaigns to educate the public, in hope of reducing mortality rate through better knowledge and early detection.
