SSE Annual Report 2012 74 Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee Management System focuses on five Ps: Health promotion SSEs Health and Well-being Action Plan Policy: dening how things get done: provides the basis for workplace health People: helping employees to act safely: programmes and initiatives, all designed to Processes: managing risks and delivering help employees be in good shape for work.
safe systems of work: SSEs policy is to deal with all sickness absence Plant: maintaining the integrity of plant in a sympathetic and constructive way, helping and equipment: and people make a speedy return to health and Performance: managing and improving to work.
During 2011 12, the average number SHE performance.
of days of absence from work was 5.87, Thomas Thune Andersen Safety, Health and Environment compared with 5.38 in the previous year.
Advisory Committee Chairman Safety performance The Committee monitored carefully SSEs Environmental management safety performance during 2011 12.
The SSEs main environmental impact is generally Members and meetings Attended results in key areas were as follows previous regarded as emissions of CO from electricity 2 Membership scheduled years performance in brackets : generation.
Many of the Companys day-today operations take place in environmentally Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 the Lost Time Reportable Injury Rate sensitive areas.
The priority is to make sure Jeremy Beeton 2 2 Colin Hood retired 31 10 11 1 1 was 0.02 0.04 : that the five Ps apply to environmental the Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR, management and that negative impacts covering lost-time, reportable and medical such as pollution to the local environment treatment injuries, was 0.11 per 100,000 are prevented.
I was very pleased to be given the opportunity hours worked 0.12 : to succeed Colin Hood as Chairman of the the total number of working days lost Committee.
Colin gave SSE many years of The key target in any single year is to ensure as a result of injuries was 53 171 : and there are no environmental incidents which outstanding leadership in all aspects of the number of dangerous or potentially result in SSE receiving an enforcement notice safety, health and the environment.
dangerous road traffic accidents involving from an environment regulator.
There were The membership also comprises the Managing SSE employees driving Company vehicles no such incidents during 2011 12. was 0.23 per 100 vehicles 0.31.
Director, Group Services: the Managing Good environmental stewardship involves Director, Generation: and the Group Safety, By many companies standards, this was a on-site energy efficiency and management Health and Environment Manager.
The Chief Executive also attends when required.
A key goal is to minimise waste however, the Committee endorsed the new and unnecessary use of natural resources goal adopted by SSE: work without anyone by re-using and recycling materials.
During The Assistant Company Secretary is Secretary getting injured.
Until this goal is achieved, 2011 12, 13,214 tonnes of waste were sent to the Committee.
the Committee, and SSE as a whole, will not from SSEs networks and offices for disposal be satisfied.
For this reason the Committee at landll sites, compared with 20,821 tonnes The Committee had three meetings during places particular emphasis on the successful in the previous year.
Its remit includes responsibility for: delivery of SSEs behavioural safety programme, The Safety Family, in which every employee Priorities for 2012 13 ensuring that SSEs health and safety policy will take part.
The Committees priorities are to: and environment policy statements are adhered to: Contractors safety performance setting safety, health and environmental support progress towards SSEs ultimate goal The safety of contractors working on SSE of working without anyone getting injured: SHE targets for improved performance: projects and sites is fundamentally the promote the health and well-being of monitoring SHE performance in SSE: responsibility of their employers, but is an people working for SSE: and encouraging greater awareness throughout increasingly significant issue for SSE.
The SSE of the importance of SHE encourage effective environmental Committee believes SSE must work closely management throughout SSE.
management and higher achievement with its contractors in increasing their safety in SHE performance: and standards.
For this group, the TRIR was 0.56 The progress towards working without anyone providing a link between the non-Executive per 100,000 hours worked, compared with Directors of the Board, the Management getting injured will be supported by four 0.36 in the previous year.
specic initiatives: Board and other members of the management team with responsibility Amongst the safety-related issues on which SSE all employees safety-related behaviours: for SHE management.
is working with contractors, the construction and safe working offshore: operation of wind farms offshore is particularly safe working by contractors: and Policy important because they present new challenges management of leading safety indicators.
People in SSE have many different working and risks.
Along with other leading developers of environments from full-scale industrial Thomas Thune Andersen processes to offices but the Committee is renewable energy, SSE has established the G9 Chairman Offshore Wind Health and Safety Association, clear that the Companys policy statements which aims to deliver world-class safety mean everyone must play a part in achieving performance in offshore wind activities.
