Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report The Committee reviews the Groups analysis of health, safety and 8.1 Composition of the Health, Safety and environmental risks and its strategies to address those risks.
The Committee Environmental Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators across the Group as The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is well as information on significant incidents involving the Group.
Key summarised in section 5.7. performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of each major The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee operating division.
Training is provided to the Committee on health, safety are available on the Groups website at and environmental matters.
The Committee liaises with the Remuneration http: www.
com about managing-the business governance Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to form part of media Files S Stagecoach-Group Attachments about health-07.
pdf the Executive Directors personal objectives.
The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel and 8.2 Operation of the Health, Safety and health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
Environmental Committee The Committee considers health, safety and environmental risks and issues across the Group and reports to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants, where required.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
Helen Mahy Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Committee, providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and 26 June 2012 challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee also receives reports from the Groups Environmental Strategy Group, which comprises a number of managers and is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of the Groups environmental strategy.
The Committee and its members visit operational locations to observe health, safety and environmental management in practice.
During the year, the members of the Committee visited the Groups North America and UK Bus operations, and were able to discuss health, safety and environmental issues and initiatives with the employees in these businesses.
The Committee Chairman also spent time with the South West Trains and Sheffield Supertram employees to gain further understanding of health, safety and environmental processes in those businesses.
Committee members attend meetings of the Safety Committees of individual business units from time to time.
The Committee allocates time in its agendas to receive detailed briefings on areas of concern to it and on initiatives being taken by the Group to improve its health, safety and environmental processes.
During the year, presentations were received on a range of topics, including level crossing safety, the introduction of the GreenRoad 360 eco-driving system and measures to address employee health in each of the UK Bus, Rail and North America businesses.
