Corporate & Social Responsibility Stobart Group takes its Corporate Social Responsibilities seriously.
The newly adopted Group CSR policy forms a strong foundation that will ensure that the business will continue to build on the numerous positive environmental initiatives and activities that it is already engaged with.
Committed to CSR Environmental Responsibility Stobart Group fully recognises the Corporate and Social The Group is committed to minimising environmental impacts as Responsibilities it has in relation to all of its stakeholders, including a result of its activities by continuing to reduce carbon and shareholders, customers, employees and local, national and particulate emissions through a programme of innovation and international communities.
The Group is committed to conducting waste reduction.
In addition to this, Stobart Group is committed business that achieves sustainable growth and fulfils all legal and to dealing with any environmental issues, such as conservation moral obligations.
of water and energy resources and pollution reduction in a responsible manner, and aims to recycle paper, card and plastic The Group aims to achieve its business objectives in a responsible wherever possible.
The following is a summary of our activities manner, remaining cognisant at all times of the economic, social and measurements in relation to environmental performance.
and environmental impacts of its activities.
Whilst a new process for formal reporting for activities which fall under the CSR remit in Group-wide Carbon Emissions: Stobart Groups total direct now in place, the Group has been carrying out CSR initiatives and emissions of CO2 for the year ended 29 February 2012 were delivering cost-effective solutions to its customers for many years.
The CO2 per loaded mile was 1.84kg for the year Put simply, our principles of reducing waste and of conducting ended 29 February 2012.
This represents a 1.6% reduction business in a fair and equitable manner mean that the principles compared to the previous year.
of CSR are, and remain, at the very heart of our business.
The concept of CSR is therefore fully integrated into the long-term Recycling: A new Stobart Group supply agreement with waste strategic approach for the business: reducing waste, improving the management firm Biffa and operating across all divisions, will see welfare of staff and engaging with local communities are the implementation of office recycling throughout every site.
The Groups innovative target of 50% reduction to landfill has been set for year one, with approach to logistics and most of all the strength and wealth of an on-going reduction programme projected to achieve zero experience of its workforce, provides the foundations needed to landfill within five years.
deliver a successful and sustainable CSR policy.
Stobart Air: The upgrading of London Southend Airport is now The Groups CSR strategy is summarised below and these identified complete.
Due to its unique situation in relation to congested priorities will continue to be a fundamental part of any business London air space, it offers passengers an average 20 minute decision-making in the future.
shorter air journey from mainland Europe compared to the other London airports: a 40 minute saving for a round trip.
Alongside the increased convenience for passengers, there will be commensurate reductions in fuel use and carbon emissions resulting from the shorter flights.
The newly opened airport train station and rapid transit time from train to plane will also encourage travellers to leave their cars at home, resulting in further CO2 reductions.
London Southend Airport has also implemented a number of environmental initiatives.
These include rainwater harvesting, solar powered LED runway lighting, an air source heat pump, motion activated lighting and use of extensive glazing to increase natural light.
Stobart Biomass: This division is at the leading edge of the sourcing and distribution of biomass fuels: a key contributor towards meeting the UKs drive for more sustainable power generation.
Stobart Biomass has grown substantially through 2012: moving over 400,000 tonnes of fuel to renewable power generation plants: the majority of which would have been Corporate Social Responsibility: Embracing destined to go to landfill.
Current supply contracts predict growth responsibility for our actions and encouraging for the division to reach 4 million tonnes by 2015. positive impacts through our activities.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 31 Total savings delivered as a result of Stobart achieving 84.2% loaded running compared to the industry average of 71.3%: Carbon Savings tonnes 56k Fuel Savings litres 21m Road Transport Reduction miles 38m Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 32 Corporate & Social Responsibility Stobart Transport & Logistics: As a launch member of the Freight Transport Associations Logistics Carbon Reduction Scheme LCRS, Stobart Group is fully committed to reducing carbon emissions throughout all of its operations in line with the FTAs targets for 2015.
According to the LCRSs own Annual Report, at any one time around 84% of Stobart vehicles on the road are carrying a load, compared to an industry average of 71.3%.
The additional 13.5% utilisation equates to a saving in excess of 38 million miles, or 56,000 tonnes of CO2.
Stobart Groups stringent vehicle replacement programme ensures that its fleet benefits from the latest technological advances.
Currently 99% of the Stobart fleet complies with the Euro V pollution regulations and the average age of the fleet is only 19 months: making it not only one of the industrys newest, but also one of the cleanest fleets in terms of air quality.
Following successful field tests of five factory-built 44 tonne Liquefied Natural Gas Diesel dual-fuel GVW tractor units in 2011, Stobart Group will be commissioning and operating a further 20 dual fuel FM13 tractor units during 2012.
Under normal operational conditions both LNG produces carbon reductions of around 15% compared to 100% diesel-powered vehicles.
Stobart are also carrying out extensive testing of an 18 tonne hybrid vehicle powered by a combination of electricity and diesel.
The unit sets off under electric power, switching to diesel at higher speeds, when the vehicle is travelling down hill inertia is scavenged to recharge the batteries, delivering excellent fuel efficiency.
Stobart drivers are showing continual improvement in the implementation of Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving SAFED techniques.
Currently more than 90% of drivers achieve their efficiency targets every week, making a positive contribution towards cutting fuel usage, as well as improving safety and reducing engine wear.
Stobart Rail Freight: The Groups rail freight operation continues to make a major contribution to reducing carbon emissions, pollution and road traffic.
New services to Barking and Magor have increased Stobart Rail capacity to eight UK train services each day.
This significant modal shift has taken 8,543,378 lorry miles off our roads and reduced CO2 emissions by 10,924 tonnes.
Enviro-Trailers The Group made the first-ever UK delivery using its new highvolume Enviro-trailer this year.
With its emphasis on achieving sustainable distribution, Eddie Stobart has long championed the use of high-volume trailers to realise environmental benefits.
It was recently granted a licence to operate 90 of the new trailers across its fleet under the governmental drive to boost the economy, cut congestion and slash carbon emissions.
The Enviro-trailer is being operated under a Vehicle Special Order as part of the Department for Transports recently announced 10-year trial of semi-trailers which are between one and two metres longer than the old maximum length of 13.6 metres.
The extended trailers allow operators to carry higher volumes of goods whilst remaining within current maximum weight and turning circle regulations.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 33 Stobarts first delivery utilised a 15.65m trailer that features two axle Business risk and compliance standards are constantly measured rear steering: providing impressive manoeuvrability and reduced and reviewed at Director level within each operational division road wear.
The trailer was packed with 54 grocery cages for Tesco, and sub-division.
These standards are also reported at each Board demonstrating the 20% increase in payload that could effectively meeting.
This process encompasses the use of a balanced score allow the number of trucks on UK roads to be decreased.
card that includes economic, customer, brand, process and people perspectives: ensuring that management have the reliable information they need in all areas of operations to review risk and Integrity achieve growth.
Stobart Group has a clear approach to its business integrity which underpins its business values of transparency, mutual dependency, Communities collaboration, professional application, innovation and sustainable profit growth.
Group strategy and attendant policies are constantly The Group is committed to continuing its annual charitable being developed to ensure that it conducts its business to the donations and to encouraging staff and business units to support highest standards.
and develop initiatives within the communities in which they operate.
The business consistently supports local communities, All relevant policies are available on the Group website at alongside the donations that the Group makes annually to its www.
Stobart Group is passionate in supporting The Group works with suppliers as partners in our success and we the excellent work local charities do around its UK depots and is engage robustly with them to ensure our product and service also closely involved with its customers own charitable activities.
The company is committed to The Group Senior Executives drive this passion from the top, with working with its suppliers to ensure products are ethically sourced William Stobart and Andrew Tinkler being heavy involved with and disposed of in a way that minimises environmental impact.
Boyzone singer, Ronan Keatings annual Emeralds and Ivy Ball which is held in association with Cancer Research UK: Stobart Business Systems: Reducing Risk Groups Charity of the Year in 2011.
The Groups involvement resulted in an impressive 120,000 in total donations from The logistics industry faces increasing challenges.
Customers have individuals to be included on a specially liveried unit with the increased concerns around Health and Safety, the environment addition of 150,000 direct sponsorship for the event.
William and quality, but are also constantly driving for leaner pricing and and Andrew are also responsible for an annual donation to even better on-time, in-full delivery standards.
Stobart Groups business strategy is underpinned by its Brand, People, and Business Carlisle Youth Zone of 50,000.
The project provides social Systems: it is the coherent development and improvement in all opportunities for the young people of Cumbria.
these areas that will allow the business to achieve its vision by Stobart Group has been an avid sponsor of various charitable working with our customers in a way that works for us and them.
events in 2011, including the support of The Lesters awards which Extensive business management systems embracing all appropriate raise money for the Injured Jockeys Fund.
The glittering Hilton policies, procedures, and full continuity plans are aimed at reducing Birmingham Metropole awards ceremony which celebrated the achievements of jockeys around the globe, took place in front of risk and ensuring legal, company and client requirements are over 400 sporting stars, celebrities and guests.
As sponsor of The consistently complied with, and evidenced.
Amongst others, these Lesters, Stobart Group displayed two cabs in the awards room encompass Health and Safety, environmental and quality controls.
on the night and guests took part in a raffle for the coveted Many of the Groups business management systems have formal chance to name them.
All the proceeds from the evening went accreditations and certifications.
to the Injured Jockeys Fund.
The Group has numerous accreditations and licences within the Donations of prizes and sponsored tables at Chicos Rainbow Transport and Distribution, Infrastructure and Civil Engineering Child Foundation Ball assisted in the raising of 27,000 at the businesses: these include ISO 9000, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, EFSIS, event which was held in November at Manchesters prestigious MHRA and IMB.
The Rainbow Child Foundation aims to provide selfOur robust internal audit process, supported by the external sustaining eco-friendly Rainbow Child villages for under-privileged accreditation and licensing audits, ensures that our accreditations children around the world and licences are maintained and that the business continues its Stobart Group actively promotes employee engagement in its drive for constant improvement, thus ensuring employee and charitable giving, and all staff are entitled to apply for a company public safety, customer satisfaction, profitability and improvement of the Stobart brand.
donation for their chosen cause.
In 2011 alone more than 23,000 was donated through this scheme, covering a wide Stobart Gateway is the Groups internal web-based information range of charities supporting the Alzheimers Society, Air hub.
It ensures that business management systems are clearly Ambulances, Kidscape, Movember and many more.
communicated and available to every employee.
The annual programme of risk-based internal audits are carried out by experienced and fully qualified auditors.
This stringent programme, comprising some 300 internal audits each year, ensures compliance and performance levels are maintained.
