Developing Our People Nurturing Talent Stobart Groups people form the foundation of its success.
We work hard to maximise their opportunities to grow and develop within the business.
The Group utilises its own highly experienced trainers, as well as leading external providers, to ensure every training course is tailored to match the businesss precise needs: enabling our people to apply learning directly back into the workplace, and maximising benefits to both the business and its employees.
3P - Developing the Right People Stobarts 3P initiative represents People, Performance and Progress.
2010 2011 MDP graduates continue to be involved in the current The 3P brand encompasses every one of the continuous personal 3P programmes.
They bring the knowledge and experiences they development programmes within the company.
It also forms the have gained to the new 2012 13 delegates, for whom they act as cornerstone of the Groups succession planning, and emulates our mentors.
Graduates also continue to provide an invaluable internal business integrity standards, as well as our equal opportunity policy.
business resource in the form of an in-house consultancy pool for a variety of projects.
Formed in 2010, the 3P brand and its programmes were established to identify, nurture and develop emerging leaders within the company.
First Line Management delegates also work through a bespoke Stobart Group recognises that our people are the foundation of our programme which involves formal training courses covering areas success, we believe in nurturing and growing our own talent and like Learning to Learn and Leadership.
Delegates each complete our leaders of the future.
The Groups Management Development an assignment which involves the identification of their own and First Line Managers programmes developed within 3P have individual learning style, this knowledge is then applied to the been designed to ensure that our people have every opportunity construction of a personal development action plan, which they to achieve their maximum potential within the business.
then re-incorporate into their daily role.
This programme provides managers with the opportunity to fully develop their career plan, Now in their second year, these key learning and development as well as to network and build strong working relationships with programmes form a critical step in driving business activities other employees.
forward, whilst ensuring Stobart Group remains the market leader in an increasingly competitive industry.
Each programme provides The Group has worked in partnership with Coventry University to a dedicated, bespoke training package which ensures that achieve external accreditation.
Upon successful completion of the delegates are developed in line with their individual needs and MDP programme, delegates receive a Diploma in Professional learning styles, as well as matching the overall mission, needs Development worth 80 University CAT points.
FLM delegates and directives of the business.
obtain 20 CAT points and a Level 2 NVQ in Team Leadership.
Management Development Programme The MDP is a bespoke development programme that has been designed to support Stobart Groups succession planning requirements.
The programme comprises the following elements: Formal Training Courses: These courses range from Strategic Leadership through to Finance for Non-Financial Managers.
Each course and its delivery are tailored to meet the needs of the individual and also the business, allowing delegates to readily apply the learning back into real-life work situations.
Job Placements: Enabling delegates to gain experience and greater understanding of a different division within the Group.
These placements present an opportunity for delegates to leave their comfort zone, facing new challenges in a different role, whilst delivering business benefits from a fresh perspective.
Special Projects: Work-based but independent pieces of consultancy work that are structured to provide learning and development opportunities for the delegate and real benefits for the business.
Previous projects include the production and roll-out of a Group CSR policy, design and implementation of a new improved employee induction and the development of a bespoke time-based planning system proven to massively reduce logistics costs.
Mentor Support: Personal mentoring is carried out by a nominated Senior Manager or Director within the business.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 35 Investors in People Stobart Group recognises that our people are our greatest asset The Academy is centred around a tiered arena comprising a and that good staff performance is crucial to continued business series of state-of-the-art learning facilities, a truck driving simulator, success.
As a result we have confirmed our commitment to and an extensive demonstration area which includes a modern achieving prestigious Investors in People status by Spring 2013.
Scania tractor unit, a curtain-sided trailer and refrigerated trailer, enabling true-to-life dynamic driver instruction.
Investors in People is an international standard developed to help companies achieve their business objectives by developing and The centrally located site also features three multi-purpose training harnessing the skills of every person within the organisation, whilst rooms for employee development courses.
One room is also fully sustaining a culture where everyone feels valued and able to make IT equipped and provides Microsoft and PC training, as well as a positive difference.
Many of the themes in the recently carried specialist system training in use of the Groups advanced in-house out Your Say survey, which gave employees the opportunity to Traffic Planning software.
voice open and honest opinions and give feedback about what its actually like to work for Stobart Group, encompass the Staff Recruitment requirements of the Investors in People standard.
Results from this The Training Academy also forms the central hub for recruitment survey now form the cornerstone of our improvement plan.
of all positions within the Group.
Initial applications for such varied As a result of the feedback we received from our employees, it was roles as LGV drivers, office personnel and air traffic controllers are identified that people really do want to work for Stobart Group!
all processed at the Widnes site, with interviews normally held at However, communication with and management of our people the location of the position being advertised.
were identified as areas for development.
Over the forthcoming 12 months the 3P team will be striving to achieve continuous improvement in these areas with the aim of making the Stobart Group an even better place to work.
Reflecting a constant process of review and monitoring aimed at delivering consistent improvements in performance, the 3P team are launching a comprehensive suite of development programmes for the 2012 13 delegate intake.
Eddie Stobart Training Academy Opened in spring 2011 by Mike Penning MP, the Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Transport, the Eddie Stobart Training Academy is a unique purpose-developed facility at Widnes.
Meet the Fosters Dale Foster Dale, far right, joined the company 24 years ago as a driver.
Recognising his potential, Stobart Group facilitated his full development.
Dales current role within Stobart Group is that of Managing Director of Eddie Stobarts key Chilled and Ports operations.
Barry Foster Dales son Barry joined Stobart Group in 2005 upon finishing university.
He has continued his personal development within the business as a graduate of the Groups 3P Management Development Programme.
Rebecca Foster With us since 2007, Dales daughter Rebecca, a qualified teacher, is now heading-up Stobart Groups extensive work with young people and schools.
This important role helps ensure the logistics sector and the business itself attracts the very best young candidates into our fast moving and exciting industry.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 36 Developing Our People Joanna Secular-Hall Leading Personal Development Driver Training Joining the business in 1995 as a Personnel Administrator, Joanna has a wealth of The Groups driver training team comprises 20 trainers and support knowledge gained through a variety of positions.
She is currently PA to Deputy Chief staff.
The extensive team is dedicated to delivering the requirements Executive and Company Secretary, Richard Butcher, and also heads up the full suite of successful 3P programmes.
of the statutory Driver Certificate in Professional Competence DCPC, as well as Driving Standards Agency DSA registered LGV Within her role as PA, Joanna provides valuable support to the expanding Estates Division by collating information and bringing it altogether at a Group level, providing instruction for Group employees and the driver induction course.
With her commitment to developing our people, coupled with Upon joining the business, every new driver undergoes two full the passion she holds for the business, Joanna leads the 3P learning and development days of intensive induction training at the site to ensure they meet programmes.
Through these, Joanna ensures that every individual within Stobart Group is given the same opportunity to grow and develop with the business that she the exceptionally high standards that are expected of a Stobart has.
Joanna ensures that every programme is delivered to the highest standard driver.
During the induction, new drivers receive their uniform and delivering the best possible outcomes for both the individual and the business.
They are also issued with a personal Driver Handbook.
This innovative publication is packed with vital Lee Humphreys Rising through the ranks information ranging from key Safe Systems of Work and detailed A 2011 MDP Graduate, Lee joined the company in 1993 at the age of 17.
Employed customer location maps through to information on clients special as a Regional Planning Manager, Lee is now responsible for collating all the SMART requirements, EU driving hours and even customs allowances.
processes that have been introduced to drive performance within the business.
The company is ahead of schedule in delivering its own range of With the main objectives of driving efficiencies into the plan and reducing cost to maximise profit, Lee is responsible for analysing trends and highlighting inefficiencies accredited Driver CPC.
The CPC programme requires every driver in order to orchestrate the required improvements.
These roles are complemented to carry out a minimum of 35 hours accredited training in a five by Lees passion for the business and the advanced business tools such as GTS, year period and reflects 2009 EU legislation aimed at ensuring LGV Isotrak and Time-Based Planning that are utilised by the company.
and PCV drivers are trained to a consistently high standard.
Training Lee also invests time in coaching and developing employees, helping ensure they encompasses a variety of areas complementary to driving activity have the tools and skills that are essential to achieve the objectives of the business.
such as Health and Safety, Customer Care, EU hours and Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving SAFED.
So-far over 6,000 CPC training days have been completed within the business, meaning we are well on target to meet the requirement set by the government.
Specialist Rail and Civils Training In addition to the Groups driver training, Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering is accredited to provide wide array of courses.
Every employee of the division is provided with the relevant skills and competences needed to carry out their duties as safely and effectively as possible.
Training ranges from NVQs in Plant Operations to Mobile Access Tower Training.
Practical training takes place at the dedicated Test Accreditation Centres at Widnes and Longtown and on site, with the theory classroom based training carried out at the divisions Carlisle headquarters.
Driver Apprenticeships Since the significant investment in the Training Academy, a Driver Apprenticeship programme has also been set up.
With the average age of Stobart Group drivers currently standing at 46 years old, a significant proportion of drivers are expected to hit retirement age soon.
And with just 0.6% of drivers aged under 24, the Group identified the need to implement an effective programme for bringing more young people into the business.
The initial apprentice intake proved a great success: every trainee successfully completed the scheme and passed their category C E Licence test, before going on to take up a role in Eddie Stobart.
An outstanding first-time C E Licence pass rate of 80% was achieved.
As a result, the DSA has been very complimentary about the standard of apprentices presented at tests: even of the standards displayed by the 20% who didnt pass on their first attempt.
Building on that success, the apprenticeship scheme will now operate a regular intake of new recruits, 56 apprentices should have completed their training by the end of 2012.
