Business review Corporate Social Responsibility Synergys ability to achieve its objectives isbased not simply on howSynergy makes its customers feel, butalso how the wider communities in which it operates feel about the Group.
An introduction from the Group CEO Community relationships Using our knowledge In 2011, I was delighted to announce the creation of two teams: one Charitable partnerships Educating others that covers Corporate Social Responsibility CSR : and another that and giving focuses on developing our internal brand identity.
Both teams report Help to healthcare to the plc and Senior Executive Boards, and have made strong Employee fundraising progress in the past year.
Community projects Our CSR team is tasked with developing Group-wide policies that will see Synergy more engaged with its local communities, reducing the impact of its operations on the environment, and creating a positive workplace for its employees.
As the employees at Synergy are those who make the real difference, we built our CSR strategy taking into Workplace environment Environmental issues account their thoughts and ideas.
Our values Energy and carbon reduction Employees collectively chose not to support one sole charity, and theteam instead focused its efforts on promoting charitable activity Training and development Transport pollution amongst the Group.
I was pleased to see so many employees actively Diversity Recycling participating in fundraising events towards the end of last year, such as Wear It Pink day for the Breast Cancer Campaign last November.
Health and safety Materials Our success is ultimately derived from the people that we have Risk management Waste management withinour Group, and we are committed in ensuring they receive the Quality management training, support, and development opportunities which they deserve across all job roles and regions.
In addition, we continue to review and strive to improve our working environment in support of our Community relationships diversity policy.
With these areas in mind, the Group has recently The CSR team has focused on improving charitable activity within undertaken an employee engagement survey and collective theGroup, through promoting both individual and team events.
responses will be measured against Synergys leadership model, which sits alongside our brand values.
TheCompany has launched its own JustGiving page to promote charitable activity internally, helping our employees reach One of the key objectives for our branding team was to develop our  targets.
You can visit our JustGiving page internal brand identity to create a sustainable, Group-wide culture atwww.
that lives beyond a small number of senior leaders in our business.
The internal branding project has been successfully rolled out across There have been a number of local and regional based fundraising the Group, alongside the rebranding of our legacy brands, such as events across the Group.
Our main achievement was to raise over Isotron and Vernon Carus, into Synergy.
1,200 for Breast Cancer Campaign, when our employees took partin Wear It Pink day in November 2011.
Synergy was awarded Carbon Trust accreditation in October 2010, and I am pleased to report that we have reduced our energy and carbon usage per unit once more in this financial year.
In addition, the Using our knowledge team has begun to standardise waste and recycling controls across Our vision is to build a lasting reputation as the trusted experts in the Group, increasing the number of recycling facilities in our sites.
global heath-related markets by differentiating our services and products through the way we work.
For the upcoming financial year, we will continue to improve ourparticipation in charitable activity by establishing regional Innovation is one of Synergys four core values, and we look to build ambassadors to drive such events.
In addition, we will use the strategic partnerships with healthcare organisations to promote employee engagement survey results to help define a strategy to continuous development in the industry.
Globally, throughout the year make further progress towards living by the brand values we set.
we have been involved in many exhibitions, training and educational events, sharing our knowledge and expertise with the industry.
During the year, our Applied Sterilisation Technologies staff have presented at key conferences on a number of subjects, including riskmanagement, cost of compliance, biodegradable polymers, alternative methods of contamination control and radiation effects.
26 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Y T I L I B A T Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements N U O C C A T N I E N T M E E Our values THINKING DRIVING Analytical thinking FORWARD Innovation Customer focus Information seeking Commercial accumen Organisational awareness Initiative and pro-activity and alignment Planning and organising Technical and Focusing on results professional expertise DEVELOPING SELF LEADING AND AND OTHERS INTERACTING Adaptability Communication Concern for accuracy Inuencing and persuading Decisiveness Interpersonal skills Resilience Relationship building Self-development Teamwork Development and Leadership coaching others For support to aid healthcare development in China, Synergy was Training and development invited to attend an award ceremony in London for the King Charles Our employees are a critical component of our continued success, Medal 2011.
In conjunction with this event, Synergy hosted a visit and it is vital that we attract and retain talented and committed toour facilities in London organised with the China-Britain Business people.
Our Human Resources department works closely with Council CBBC.
managers and employees to meet their aspirations for personal growth and development.
Our organisation capability review has Our facility in Thailand won an award for safety and environmental evolved to assess the management teams performance against our operations within the radiation industry.
The award was issued by leadership competencies.
In addition, we hold a number of internal theThai ofce of Atoms for Peace OAP during its 50th anniversary.
development centres and workshops, and assist them to create Synergy Health Thailand was the only contract irradiator who development plans.
Our employees have semi-annual and annual achieved the award, which was presented by the Minister of Science performance reviews.
At our Senior Executive Board meetings, a minimum of four talent One example of our work in the community is the student reviews are undertaken per year where the Board discusses the educational day held by our Applied Sterilisation Technologies talent within the business with a view to how they can develop them team.
The day was held in conjunction with the Swindon Academy: further.
We recruited a further seven graduates in 2011 across the sixth-form students enjoyed a tour of our gamma irradiation facility UK & Ireland and Europe & Middle East regions, providing a powerful and laboratories, as well as receiving presentations from key example of our strategy to grow and develop our talent pool.
In addition to our education days, ourSenior Management team has been active in providing talks and We are expanding the use of 360-degree feedback in all business advice for university students looking for recruitment opportunities in areas and using development centres to monitor the skills and the upcoming year.
development areas of our employees.
Over the coming year we will be rolling out a new performance management system which will We look to build on these achievements by continuing to offer directly assess our employees against the leadership model, helping educational days for local schools, and by building stronger to identify future leaders for the business.
relationships with hospitals and other organisations in the healthcareindustry.
Employee engagement Workplace environment Employee engagement is important to the success of our business and we have a number of systems in place that enable us to Our values understand the views of our employees.
These include employee Achievement We believe our success comes from our focus on forums, works councils and engagement surveys.
exceeding expectations and our commitment to go that extra mile, however small the difference may seem.
The CSR team contacted employees to understand how they felt theteam should focus its efforts for the programme.
We recently Accountability We take personal responsibility for our actions and launched an employee engagement survey to understand the are equipped to take the right course of action.
perception of our business in relation to our leadership model, Integrity We believe that the way we work is as important as what whichts alongside our brand values.
We care deeply about the quality of our work and inspire trust The Company has a Senior Leadership Community, which involves by delivering on promises.
80 managers from across the Group.
The Community has been Innovation We achieve the best possible results by working with established to encourage cross-functional working practices and customers to develop new ways of solving problems and reducing risk.
ensure that information and expertise is shared across the different businesses, along with engaging management to develop their Our ethics policy can be found online at: leadership skills.
We are looking to increase the visibility and http: www.
aspx interaction of senior management across the business.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 27 G V R E I I T H Y C A N O I T A V O N N I Business review Corporate Social Responsibility continued Diversity at work Quality management Our leadership embraces diversity, creating the right environment Synergy is heavily regulated by international healthcare standards forpeople from all walks of life to contribute to our pool of talent.
and our facilities are certied to the applicable standards by Wepassionately believe that our future success is dependent on internationally recognised Notied Bodies across all regions.
attracting and retaining people from a cross-section of our We are routinely inspected by regulatory bodies such as the communities and that we will create competitive advantage for USFoodand Drug Administration and the Medicines and Healthcare Synergy.
We promote a supportive and inclusive culture for all our products Regulatory Agency, and all our facilities across all regions employees and third-party business partners.
However, we also have implemented effective quality management systems, which are recognise that there is a need to create the right environment to maintained by full time quality professionals.
support our diversity strategy, and the senior leadership of Synergy together with the CSR team are looking at how we develop our We take pride in the level of quality compliance we achieve, and business to improve its attractiveness to new recruits, as well as thisis valued by our customers, especially the hospitals and toprovide support networks for minority groups within our business, multinational healthcare medical device manufacturers that use to positively support their personal development.
All of our hospital sterilisation services sites are CE certied and Senior Leadership comply with the appropriate clauses of the European Medical During the year, we welcomed both Constance Baroudel and Liz DeviceDirective.
Within our Senior Leadership Community, which represents our top global 80 leaders, women represent just Our Applied Sterilisation sites are certied to EN ISO 13485, which 14% of the community.
Although we are not intending to set targets, ismandatory for the processing of CE marked medical devices.
we are ensuring all that our people who have senior leadership Inaddition, each of the EN ISO 13485 certicates references, in the potential are given adequate support, and that there are no articial scope of certication, the specic ISO sterilisation standard that is barriers to impede their career development within Synergy.
We take relevant to the sterilisation technology applied at the site.
This gives a similar view towards ethnicity, where we believe we would benefit added assurance to our customers of the authenticity and validity of from a much more diverse population of senior leaders.
We are currently embarking on an initiative to harmonise the key Age elements of our Quality Management Systems across the Group to The age prole by region is set out below, and the data is used for ensure consistent quality, irrespective of the location of the facility.
development and succession planning to ensure the long term During the process we will also identify areas of best practice sustainability of the Group.
acrossthe Group and ensure implementation at all sites, creating a mechanism for continual improvement.
60 & over 100% We have a pool of technical expertise within our management team, 50-59 and we harness this expertise using technical working groups to 80% 40-49 continue to develop and improve our Quality Management System.
30-39 60% Inaddition, this expertise can be called upon to help nd solutions Under 30 for customers in relation to the processing of their product.
At 40% Synergy we have a philosophy of entering into a mutually beneficial 20% partnership with our customers to ensure that we deliver service excellence every time we process their products.
0 We have successfully certied several new Hospital Sterilisation Services sites this year in the UK, in Shefeld, Grimsby and London.
In Applied Sterilisation Technologies, we have developed new sitesand increased the capacity of existing sites.
Each of Gender thesedevelopments has been subject to a rigorous process We promote a supportive and inclusive culture within our business, ofcommissioning and validation, prior to the commencement of with equal opportunities for both genders.
Across the whole Group, customer product processing.
We are fully committed to providing a 53% of our workforce are women.
quality service in all regions and all aspects of our business.
We strive to continuously improve our quality systems to benefit our wide and diverse customer base.
Male 100% Female 80% 60% 40% 20% 0 28 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Americas Asia & Africa Europe & Middle East UK & Ireland Total Americas Asia & Africa Europe & Middle East UK & Ireland Total Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Environmental performance tables Utility consumption MWh 2012 2011 Variance Electricity 54,200 43,700 24.0% Gas 141,700 136,900 3.5% Oil diesel 1,100 1,300 15.4% Totals 197,000 181,900 8.3% Carbon emissions grams of CO2 per unit of output 2012 2011 Variance UK & Ireland 203 215 5.6% Europe & Middle East 207 220 5.9% Asia & Africa 341 405 15.8% Environmental issues Transport pollution Energy and carbon reduction Transportation is pivotal to our services, especially in ensuring a fast-track turnaround for our customers.
Each of our facilities has an We are committed to ensuring that our services minimise their impact objective to provide our logistics services as efficiently as possible, on the environment.
We will always have a need for a substantial level and there have been a number of local projects to help operate our of energy use, given the nature of our services, but we continue to services more efficiently.
The organisation continues to operate a reduce carbon emissions and our environmental impact per unit.
company car policy which strictly defines required emission levels.
Ourinitiatives have resulted in some substantial reductions in our carbon footprint this year, as well as external recognition for our The business continued to expand its video conferencing technology efforts and approach.
to reduce the need for travel.
The Americas and the new corporate ofce in Pall Mall have had video conferencing units installed to Utilities conduct long-distance meetings efficiently.
On a like-for-like basis we have reduced total consumption of utilities by 1.2%.
This is largely due to a fall in gas and oil consumption.
Recycling and waste management However, our acquisitions in the US, Switzerland and Malaysia, as The Group complies with its waste management obligations.
well as new facilities elsewhere, have acted to increase utility Morerecycling facilities have been made available in the past year, consumption by 8.3%.
and wewill look to continue our efforts in the new financial year.
Carbon management Weare looking to standardise our waste and recycling contracts asthey expire, to ensure all facilities have the recycling and waste Our key measure of progress in carbon management is the year on collections that are necessary.
year change in relative emissions per unit of output.
The performance in 2012 for reduction of relative carbon emissions continues to see good progress towards our overall goal of reducing relative emissions by 20% in 2013.
Analysis shows that there has been significant improvement in the relative emissions for each of our regions for which data is available.
There has been a strong performance in the UK and Ireland region where relative emissions for 2012 are 5.6% better than the previous year.
The improvement has been driven by significant improvements in the AST and HSS businesses.
Overall performance in Europe & Middle East region across AST andLinen Management businesses saw a reduction in the relative emissions of 5.9%.
Asia & Africa, despite the addition of a new business in Malaysia and an increasingly busy unit in Suzhou, hasimproved relative emissions by 15.8% over 2011.
No gures are presented for our Americas region, since it was only formed during 2012 with the acquisition of BeamOne and MSI, andtherefore comparable data is not available.
The table above shows relative carbon emissions across the business.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 29
