16 People Our people are at the heart of TalkTalk and Great Getaway We held our first ever Company-wide employee event, the inthis year of significant change our people Great Getaway in September last year, which was really popular agenda has been more important than ever.
We decided to make it a family friendly We encourage honesty, ideas and action and event and extend the invitation to 3,500 TalkTalk colleagues we acknowledge that our people are the key and their families.
The event was shaped by our people from a to the success of the business.
comprehensive cross-section from across the business who formed the Organising Committee.
After the success of last yearwe will be continuing with this event later on this year.
In January 2011, we announced a Group wide restructure across TalkTalk that had a significant impact on our people TalkTalk Employee Forum ONE Voice and transformed the way that we operate, making us a simpler, As part of our transformation journey we have re-launched our moreeffective organisation.
employee forum, ONE Voice, a consultation and information forum consisting of 80 nominated employee representatives, Being Brighter employee development programme management and members of our People Services team.
We Our people plan for the year clearly focused on development arecommitted to involving our people in the key issues and andengagement following the launch of our Brighter Basics challenges we face as a Group.
They are a set of values that capture our personality andtheambition of TalkTalk.
They are centred around five Employee communication keyareas:Customer, Value, Innovate, People and Community.
We have developed a range of channels and methods toimprove Itisimportantthat these values become embedded across communication with our people.
We hold regular All-Hands theorganisation and we held a series of one day events events at each of our sites and also include our offshore acrossthecountry, which every single employee attended, partners where members of the senior leadership team provide including many ofour outsource partners in the UK and business updates to everyone.
We also communicate on a overseas.
First andforemost it was a day for our employees weekly basis via TeamTalk, a newsletter that incorporates personal development, where they learnt some tools to use various updates from across the business.
We have also recently bothat work and in their personal life.
The tools they experienced developed a better way of communicating with our People brought the Brighter Basics to life and also will form the basis Managers by having a bespoke newsletter and website on our offuture training and development events across the Group.
intranet to inform them first about matters that affect them or their teams.
The weekly Didos blog continues to be popular Leading a Brighter Business with employees regularly feeding back on key issues.
We recognise that the quality of our managers is vital to our future success.
In January this year we launched our new Employee engagement MySay Leadership Development Programme, Leading a Brighter At the end of last year we held our new engagement survey, Business, to empower our people managers as leaders and MySay.
This is to help us explore more about what its like to work provide them with the tools to drive the business forward to at TalkTalk and how we can be a great place to work.
We achieved even greater success.
Over 550 people managers are taking a response rate of 72% and it has provided valuable insights into part inthe programme over the coming year.
what were doing well and also where we need to improve in orderto make TalkTalk a brighter place for everyone.
Involvement and recognition Recognising our people who are driving our culture by actively Our engagement survey and plan enable us to listen and demonstrating our Brighter Basics is extremely important to us.
respond to what our people are saying and help us to create Weintroduced a manager-led recognition initiative where managers and sustain an environment where employees are motivated, can reward their employees with an On-the-Spot award.
We also stay with us and enjoy doing great work.
continue our highly popular TalkTalk Heroes scheme, again in linewith the Brighter Basics, where people are nominated by their Disabled employees colleagues for their outstanding contribution in a whole range of We have an equal opportunities policy, which ensures that subjects, from charity work to customer engagement.
disabled persons are provided with the same opportunities for employment, career development, training and promotion along Employee benets with all other employees.
As part of this policy, applications for We have a comprehensive range of benets that we offer to our employment by disabled persons are fully considered, bearing employees and this year we were able to extend this once again in mind the abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of toinclude a Sharesave scheme to enable our employees to employees becoming disabled during employment a thorough participate in the performance of the Group.
To ensure that our process is followed and support provided including income employees can enjoy the power of the internet at home, we are also support insurance to try to secure their employment.
continuing to offer their broadband and phone services for free.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
