14 Sustainability review Leading the way to a digital society, TalkTalk Digital Heroes Awards 2011 We have sponsored these awards, run in conjunction with environmental sustainability and community.
charity Citizens Online and The Daily Mirror, since 2009.
The awards aim to reward amazing individuals, nominated by their We believe that innovative digital communications can improve communities, who use digital technology in the most socially our society and environment.
Our strategy is to help make our positive way.
This year we had 190 entries, an increase on last community a better and more sustainable place by motivating year, nominated by the public and their MPs.
We awarded our people and suppliers, and by producing innovative products 65,000 in grants to 12 regional nalists, including 10,000 for our customers.
to the 2011 TalkTalk Digital Hero.
Digital society The judges were our Chairman Charles Dunstone, the UK We aim to improve society through innovation and motivating Digital Champion Martha Lane Fox and the Editor of The Daily our customers, people and partners.
We do this through the Mirror Richard Wallace.
They judged the 2011 TalkTalk Digital following programmes: Hero to be Chris Dredger of the charity, Storybook Dads, a project that helps maintain the vital emotional bond between Digital safety prisoners and their children by helping offenders to record We think it is important to maintain the freedoms that the bedtime stories on CD or DVD.
The grant will buy Storybook internet age brings.
However, we realise that parents want to Dads new video equipment to roll the project out to more protect their children online, and keep them focused during prisons, as well as helping their planned project with the Armed homework time.
We also want to empower all customers to Forces.
For more on Storybook Dads, visit storybookdads.
protect all of their internet devices from security risks.
Environmental sustainability We were first, in 2011, to develop a service This year we have stepped up our focus on measuring and that can automatically protect every device reducing our environmental impact: in particular the CO 2 on a home broadband connection.
We call emissions related to our consumption of energy.
This is by it HomeSafe and we offer it free with our far our biggest impact.
It is built Our strategy to reduce our CO emissions is twofold.
Firstly, 2 into our network and, once enabled on a to reduce our energy consumption and secondly, to carefully connection, prevents users from reaching consider the provenance of the energy.
sites in categories deemed inappropriate by the account holder.
It is also capable of CO emissions 2 automatically blocking access to sites that are Our NGN is one of the biggest and most advanced in the UK.
believed to harbour viruses or other threats.
It grows in line with our customer volume, and their rapidly We are the only broadband provider with such a service.
We therefore measure our CO emissions relative to the networks scale, 2 It won the 2012 uSwitch Award for Broadband Innovation, and so that we stay focused on improving our efficiency or helped us to win a Mumsnet Family Friendly Silver Award.
We also offer customers an additional layer of protection with In 2011, our Chief Executive officer set our objective: to reduce security software for up to three PCs, and this is free as part of our CO emissions intensity, in tonnes of CO equivalent per 2 2 our TalkTalk Plus package.
Gigabit tCO e Gb, by 25% by April 2021, relative to 2010.
2 Safety and security are specialist areas, so we collaborate with Despite growing the network in line with customer usage and several experts in the eld.
This includes F-Secure, the UK volume, we have increased energy efficiency and therefore Council for Child Internet Safety UKCCIS and the Mumsnet our CO emissions intensity has fallen.
tCO e Gb 2012 2011 2 Digital inclusion 1 2 Energy, transport and lodging 193 317 Most of us have internet access and enjoy the educational, entertainment and savings opportunities that it brings.
Yet, 1 Primarily electricity, but also some natural gas and back-up generator fuel.
over eight million people in the UK have never been online, 2 Includes rail, air and car travel.
and so we are committed to helping them overcome their barriers, be they confidence or financial, and harness the As customers broadband usage grows, we will further invest in powerof the internet.
expanding our network capacity to meet demand, and energy efficiency initiatives.
Go ON UK and Race Online 2012 TalkTalk is a founding sponsor of the new charity Go ON UK, We are members of the UK Governments Carbon Reduction alongside Age UK, the BBC and Big Lottery Fund.
The charity Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme league table.
In 2011, is led by Martha Lane Fox.
Together we pledge to work with the the Environment Agency ranked us in the top performance Government to help make the UK the worlds most digitally quartile: at position 381, from over 2,000 UK organisations.
We were a partner of its predecessor, Race Online To achieve this, we attained the Carbon Saver Gold Standard 2012.
Aside from lending our online safety and digital inclusion and initiated a programme of tting digital half-hourly energy expertise, we have donated ofce space above our Customer meters, linked to our energy management software platform.
In Experience Centre in central London, as well as funding.
addition, we installed sub-metering, to allow us to better monitor energy usage and identify target areas for further improvements.
A good example of our involvement in FY2012 was our supportfor the Go ON Liverpool initiative, where we offered local families, who had never been online at home before, abroadband and phone package free for 12 months.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 15 100% renewable electricity Engaging with our customers In November 2011, we switched our procurement of electricity, We ran two customer driven fundraising campaigns in FY2012.
by far our main energy source, so that 100% of the units Therst was the continuation of our pledge to donate to consumed by our NGN, ofces and UK call centres come from Ambitious about Autism for every call made to our UK directory renewable sources.
FY2012 also saw the introduction of an initiative to reward Sustainable forestry customers who return to us routers that have been diagnosed Another focus in FY2012 was sustainable paper.
We pay for the postage, before refurbishing or displaying FSC and PEFC certication marks on the envelopes safely recycling the equipment, and donate 1 to charity.
of our consumer direct marketing and bills, recognising our Among those to benefit in this first year was Cool Earth, decision to source paper from certied sustainable sources.
a charity supported by Sir David Attenborough and Professor The printed version of this report is our first to be printed on Lord Stern.
Cool Earth is the only charity dedicated to protecting certied 100% recycled paper and we have used a lighter stock endangered rainforests, one of the most effective ways to and lower ink coverage than previously.
minimise CO reaching our atmosphere.
2 Community Engaging with our colleagues Fundraising and volunteering FY2012 saw us introduce our Give Something Back initiative, In FY2012, the Group was responsible for generating 357,909 which offers our people an extra day of paid leave, every year, ofincome for registered charities in the year, including 129,576 to volunteer or fundraise for a charity of their choice.
We also of direct cash donations 2011: 240,455.
In addition, we offer fundraising matching.
The first year was a success, with invested over 150,000 in community projects, in towns over 300 team and individual events taking place.
One team andvillages that we added to our NGN footprint.
We did not of 20 alone raised over 20,000 for Ambitious about Autism make any political donations in the current or prior year.
by cycling from London to our ofce in Greater Manchester.
We focus primarily on providing time and money via engagement Our charity partner of ten years, Ambitious about Autism is the with four key stakeholder groups: national charity for children and young people with autism.
They provide specialist education, through the TreeHouse School as Engaging with our new communities well as raising awareness and understanding, and inuencing FY2012 saw us bring our NGN to several hundred additional policy.
It is their ambition to make the ordinary possible for more telephone exchanges as part of our local loop unbundling children and young people with autism.
Each new addition sees our best value broadband We also collaborated with Marie Curie Cancer Care and and phone services become available to thousands of families Sport Relief as part of Give Something Back, with our people and businesses for the first time.
participating in their organised challenges.
This included making To celebrate our arrival in these communities, we make an over cancer sufferers gardens and team fundraising challenges investment in something important to them, be it a junior football such as taking over charity shops for the day.
team for example Pangbourne Youth Football Club, improvements to a community centre or a Town in Bloom project.
Engaging with our suppliers November 2011 saw our Directors host the Night of Ambition, our In FY2012, we supported over 300 local communities in second annual fundraising auction on behalf of Ambitious about this way, directly investing over 150,000 in projects.
A record number of our suppliers generously took tables included support for over 150 youth and ladies football teams, and donated unique lots for Nicholas Bonham to auction.
Over 60 community centres, 40 rugby and cricket clubs, 16 sport 200,000 was raised for the cause.
and leisure centres, 40 Christmas lights ceremonies and numerous allotments and gardening projects.
Looking ahead In FY2013 we will expand our charity efforts by establishing partnerships with organisations that work in the communities surrounding our major sites.
We will start with Irlam in Greater Manchester, Warrington and West London.
Other achievements in FY2012 For more detail Through demonstrating our approach to responsible Our first Sustainability Report will be available on our website business, 2011 saw us admitted to the Corporate in2012, and we are aiming for compliance with the Global Responsibility Group.
Members pledge to share best Reporting Initiative GRI standard.
practiceon community involvement, business ethics andenvironmental protection with fellow members, evencompetitors.
To read more on our Sustainability strategy and progress, visit: www.
com sustainability We retained both our FTSE4Good Index membership andCarbon Saver Gold Standard certication.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
