Business Review: Corporate Responsibility Our people Our aim is good, ethical employment Diversity and inclusion Employees by business unit We believe in equal opportunities practices and standards across 31 March 2012 regardless of gender, sexual orientation, all our operations, in line with age, marital status, disability, race, religion our Business Code of Conduct 1 3 or other beliefs and ethnic or national see www.
The Group remains committed to approach is to attract, retain and the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion motivate the right people aligned and career development.
An employee around the right values.
who becomes disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
Employee profile 2 Our policies, practices and regulations At 31 March 2012, Tate & Lyle employed 1 Bulk Ingredients 52% for recruitment, training and career 4,383 people 2011: 4,111.
The increased 2 Speciality Food Ingredients 40% development promote equality of number of employees versus 2011 is 3 Central Functions 8% opportunity.
attributable to the restart of our McIntosh, Alabama, SPLENDA Sucralose Our aim is a culture in which all employees manufacturing facility and the establishment have the opportunity to develop fully Employees by geography of our Global Shared Services centre in according to their individual abilities 31 March 2012 dz, Poland.
These figures exclude and the needs of the Group.
In addition, employees from discontinued operations we aim to attract a diverse workforce that 1 and our Vietnam Sugars business which 4 reflects the communities in which we is currently being sold.
To support this a Diversity and Inclusion Council was set up last year.
Employee engagement 3 The Councils focus to date has been on We believe that engaged employees are creating awareness, establishing metrics happier and deliver better results, and and the development of recruitment that good internal communication facilitates guidelines to enhance diversity.
We have the awareness and achievement of 2 seen some positive early signs in this area common goals.
We have recently launched and are committed to making further 1 North America 47% a Company-wide employee engagement improvements over the next few years.
2 Europe, Middle East and Africa 35% programme, underpinned by an employee 3 Latin America 13% Gender diversity 4 Asia Pacific 5% survey.
We have also implemented an Global employees updated global induction programme for 31 31 new employees.
March March Our values 2012 2011 We engage with and support our Female 24% 23% employees in a number of ways, facilitated Male 76% 77% by Company-wide communication using means which range from our internal Achievement We have more than 50 nationalities in our intranet, through our quarterly Worldwide workforce currently.
magazine which is distributed in ten languages, to face-to-face dialogue.
Health and well-being Safety Our values define what we stand for We work with healthcare partners to Accountability Teamwork and how we behave with our customers, provide information, advice and support to suppliers, investors, the communities employees on health matters and we share we operate in and with each other.
best practice across the Company.
Core Values We have clear structures for incentivising Outlook and rewarding employees, including a Respect Integrity Our evolution into a truly global business performance-related Group bonus plan demands a truly diverse workforce and this and a sales incentive scheme consistent will continue to be an important part of our across all locations.
Our remuneration policy Performance recruitment and retention policies.
Employee Values for directors is explained on page 49.
Creativity Speed engagement, good internal communication and the application of our values are key, underlying themes.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32
