Business Review Community We have a strong history of Outlook Tate & Lyle in the Community During the year we have undertaken a community involvement and review of our community involvement For Tate & Lyle community involvement during financial year 2012 we have objectives and programme.
We have looked is about having a positive and lasting continued to support communities at our community work of recent years relationship with the community: local to our operations.
Meanwhile, talking to colleagues who have been changing things for the better in the we have also been reviewing our involved in it across the business from the areas of education, well-being and United States, through Europe, to Asia work of recent years to redefine environment.
and asking how we can do more to help our objectives and programme Our community programme has three our communities around the world.
broad objectives going forward: also taken some expert, external advice on this matter.
Education: To develop young peoples Overview of the year knowledge and understanding of The result is that going forward we shall In the year ended 31 March 2012 charitable science, technology, engineering and be implementing a revitalised community donations were 308,000 2011: 346,000. mathematics STEM subjects : and, involvement programme Tate & Lyle in the The year-on-year decrease was a key item their preparedness for a career in Community building on our work to date in the review of our community involvement a STEM-based discipline, either and focussing on specific objectives in the programme.
In the year to 31 March 2013 academically or vocationally.
areas of education, well-being and we will make a significant increase in our environment.
We will: Well-being: To provide practical financial commitment to community work.
assistance in the area of well-being: achieve a wider geographical reach During the year we supported a wide from health issues through nutrition across our global business: range of initiatives and organisations to general welfare, such as our develop international as well as local assisting our local communities, including: supporting food banks.
community programmes: and Europe make a larger financial commitment Environment: To promote Bulgaria: providing support to local schools.
environmental sustainability and good environmental management: Germany: local educational institutions Tate & Lyle recognises that being a addressing issues of climate change, and health and well-being charities.
responsible corporate citizen includes water resource management and having a strong and forward-looking Hungary: supporting the local primary conservation.
Italy: local health and education organisations.
Asia Pacific Australia: childrens health and well-being.
Netherlands: health, education and wellbeing activities, particularly for children.
Community spend by allocation UK: support to local and national health and well-being charities.
year to 31 March 2012 USA 4 1 Chicago: community food bank and the local park district.
3 Decatur: agricultural shows: local arts funding organisations: and, a wide range of education, youth and community works including Decatur Family YMCA, youth programmes of the Decatur Park District, 2 and the Associated Colleges of Illinios.
1 Education 47% 2 Health 30% Lafayette: United Way of Lafayette: Purdue 3 Environment 17% Foundation: education foundations.
4 Arts 6% Loudon: United Way of Loudon County: Loudon Education Foundation.
McIntosh: United Way of Southwest Alabama.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
