Business Review: Corporate Responsibility Environment We seek to operate in a way that is as Results for the year We are undertaking projects environmentally sustainable as practical, In calendar year 2011, versus 2010: to improve our environmental while working continuously to reduce our performance.
Energy use was flat overall, reducing environmental impact.
slightly by 0.3% per tonne of production, due to a sustained focus on Outlook Our approach running manufacturing operations across During the last year we have established By using resources such as energy the Company in a smooth and efficient new targets for environmental performance and water more efficiently, and reducing manner.
and embedded these into the personal waste, we can also achieve reductions in Primary carbon footprint from objectives of individuals across the operational costs.
Improving the Companys energy use was flat overall, reducing Company from the top down.
We recognise environmental sustainability, therefore, is slightly by 0.2% per tonne of that by restarting our McIntosh, Alabama not only good for the environment but can production, in line with the slight energy SPLENDA Sucralose facility and installing also be beneficial financially.
new air emissions control equipment at Water use reduced by 2% per tonne Tate & Lyles environmental policy and several locations our challenge to reduce of production, due to good process and standards apply to all our activities globally, energy use and waste will increase.
Our water use management with smooth, and we aim to integrate environmental new environmental targets will help us non-interrupted production runs across considerations into all major decisions.
About 0.5% of this We expect all of our facilities to meet their reduction is due to the replacement of a We also aim to: environmental permits at all times.
On the well water meter at Lafayette Sagamore, improve further our understanding of the rare occasion that a site exceeds any of USA.
carbon and water footprint of our its operating limits we take immediate Waste to landfill increased by 9% per products across their complete lifecycle: action to correct the issue and prevent a tonne of production, due to: winter and, recurrence.
We have an annual internal audit conditions in the first quarter of 2011 work more closely with our customers on programme to confirm compliance with affecting aerobic bio-solids digestion at reducing our joint environmental impact our environmental management standards.
Lafayette Sagamore, such that this and with our suppliers on sustainable We also have a programme of external material had to be sent to landfill: and, agriculture within our raw material supply environmental compliance audits to ensure increased production volumes at several chain.
that regulatory requirements are met.
facilities leading to temporarily increased waste levels until we had optimised the The commissioning of a biomass-fired Within our own operations and joint processes affected.
In 2012, the utilisation boiler at our joint venture manufacturing ventures we focus on those aspects of of new external waste recovery facilities in facility in Hungary in calendar year 2012 is our activities that have the greatest the USA, which use anaerobic digestion one of the projects being undertaken to potential impact on the environment.
to produce energy from waste, is one of further improve environmental performance.
These are: energy use and consequent the initiatives we are taking to drive carbon footprint: water use: and waste.
reductions in waste to landfill.
Beyond our own operations across our products complete life cycle we focus our attention on our raw material supply chain, the transportation of our products to our customers, and our products packaging.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34 Business Review Environment Environmental sustainability Environmental performance targets Energy use Primary carbon footprint Following a programme of engagement GJ per tonne production Tonnes CO2 per tonne production with key stakeholder groups including customers, investors and employees, last year we adopted the following mid-term environmental sustainability targets for end of calendar year 2016: CO2 emissions target 12.5% reduction, per tonne production, 4.94 4.48 4.47 0.41 0.38 0.38 baseline year 2008 1 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2011 Status: 10% reduction Packaging reduction target Water use Waste to landfill Implement packaging reduction Cubic meters per tonne production Tonnes per 000 tonnes production programmes with customers comprising 50% of Sales 2011 Status: pilot programmes initiated Transport efficiency target Implement transport efficiency programmes with customers comprising 50% of Sales 4.65 4.43 4.36 7.57 7.23 7.90 2011 Status: pilot programmes initiated 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Sustainable agriculture target 1 Due to the continuous improvement of our internal reporting procedures and processes we Implement sustainable sourcing have amended the primary carbon footprint number for 2010 shown above to 0.38 from 0.37 programmes for our top-20 raw as reported previously.
materials by volume and any sustainability risk materials 2011 Status: pilot programmes initiated Corporate Responsibility reporting notes We report safety performance for Tate & Lyle owned and joint venture manufacturing Going forward, we shall develop facilities, and for Tate & Lyle offices and research and development facilities, globally, additional environmental sustainability for the period 1 January to 31 December 2011. targets, including for waste.
We report environmental performance for Tate & Lyle owned and joint venture manufacturing facilities globally for the annual period 1 January to 31 December 2011.
We recognise that restarting our McIntosh, We report safety and environmental performance by calendar year because we are Alabama SPLENDA Sucralose manufacturing facility and installing new air emissions control required to do so for regulatory purposes.
equipment at several locations will make it Our internal audit function has carried out a review of the corporate responsibility CR more challenging to improve our energy use information and data presented in this Annual Report.
and waste performance in the short-term.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
