Business Review: Corporate Responsibility Our sustainability journey Safety We have no higher priority than At Tate & Lyle we manufacture safety and are committed to ingredients for some of the providing safe and healthy working conditions for our employees, best-known food and beverage contractors and visitors.
We are companies in the world.
We seek pleased to report an improvement in to do so in a responsible and safety performance during the year.
Although our safety performance sustainable way.
compares favourably to external benchmarks we nevertheless seek We see our Companys performance in financial, to achieve continuous improvement.
operational, social and environmental terms.
They are all interdependent and all contribute to the creation Overview of the year oflong-term shareholder value.
Our safety performance improved in Improving our CR management calendar year 2011 with our recordable Achievements in the year to 31 March 2012 included: incident rate decreasing by 10% and our lost-time accident rate decreasing by 30% Our Board Corporate Responsibility CR Committee continued versus 2010.
We are now operating at to strengthen its oversight of how environmental, social and around one lost workday accident per governance ESG matters and risks are managed, following its million hours worked.
However, the safety establishment during the previous year.
Information on the performance of contractors working at our Committees activities is provided on page 46. facilities remains below that of our own Our Group Operational Efficiency and Sustainability GOES employees and is therefore an area we function became embedded across our business following are focussing on.
its first full year of operation.
For example, our regional environmental colleagues in Europe and the USA became Safety improvement projects part of GOES in December 2011. and activities Improving our CR performance During the year we restructured our We are pleased to report improved safety performance this management of safety to ensure that year, and advances in our management of people, community it remains the first priority across our involvement and the environment.
We have worked hard to business.
Specific initiatives included: implement the control arrangements and targets that will Improving our overall safety management deliver over both the shortand long-term.
Examples include: system and focus.
For example, we our standardised safe systems of work: our annual Global established an Executive Safety Steering Compliance Audit programme to confirm the implementation Committee chaired by our Chief Executive of our safety, food safety, quality and environmental standards: which regularly reviews our safety and, the development and roll-out of new environmental targets.
performance and improvement Improving our CR reporting programmes.
Our senior executives are During the last twelve months we have: personally involved in day-to-day safety management and undertake Executive Further strengthened our internal reporting arrangements for Safety Audits globally.
safety, environmental and social data.
We made good progress with our Group Engaged external consultants URS to undertake verification Safety Improvement Plan which was of the aggregation and calculation of Group environmental devised in 2010.
We have individual safety performance data contained in this report, and of the internal plans for all plants.
reporting arrangements used to obtain it.
In addition, our We reviewed, revised and reissued internal audit function has carried out a review of the CR standardised and global safe systems information and data presented here.
of work for specific activities such as Undertaken stakeholder engagement on our CR reporting with working at height.
We provided training customers, investors and employees.
com on these new procedures at a two-day and in our next annual report we shall complete our move to meeting of our global Plant Managers and a  reporting model by also reporting Safety Managers in November 2011. marketplace matters such as responsible supply chain management and customer sustainability engagement.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30
