Governance: Corporate Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee Work undertaken during the year Number of Directors as at Dear Shareholder Number of meetings During the year and up to the date of this 31 March 2012 meetings attended annual report, the work undertaken by the I am pleased to present the Corporate Sir Peter Gershon CR Committee included: Responsibility CR Committees report Chairman of the on our activities during the year.
Safety Committee 4 4 reviewing the Groups safety Liz Airey 4 4 Following its establishment in 2010, the performance, including actions being Committee continued to embed itself William Camp 4 3 taken to address contractor safety into the governance framework during Former directors performance: and 1 the year.
The Board and Committee Dr Barry Zoumas 1 1 receiving regular updates on the effectiveness reviews indicated that implementation of the actions arising 1 Died on 14 August 2011. the Committee functioned effectively from the 2010 external safety review.
during the year and noted some areas Dr Ajai Puri joined the Board on 1 April 2012 and is a member of the CR Committee.
As he did not serve for improvement, principally relating Product safety during the year under review, he is excluded from the to internal communication.
We are receiving an update on the operation of above analysis.
putting in place an action plan to the Groups quality assurance processes.
The Committee has a formal calendar of Diversity and inclusion items for consideration at each meeting and Given the high priority we place on reviewing the progress of diversity and meets at least four times each year.
The safety, overseeing the Groups safety inclusion initiatives within the Group.
minutes of each meeting are circulated to performance is a main focus for the the Board.
The Chief Executive, Executive Environment Committee.
We reviewed performance VP Human Resources, VP Group Audit agreeing environmental performance regularly during the year, monitoring and Assurance, VP Sustainability and targets and reviewing the Groups progress on the actions arising from other senior managers as invited by the performance: the 2010 external review.
Whilst overall Committee usually attend meetings.
reviewing the approach to environmental performance has improved, the safety improvement projects: and performance of contractors remains agreeing the Groups medium-term below that of our employees and is Main responsibilities of the environmental sustainability priorities therefore a key area of focus for both CR Committee and action.
The main responsibilities of the Business practices Another key area of focus for us during Committee include: approving Group-wide policies including the year was the Groups impact on the monitoring the Groups approach to a Code of Business Ethics and the policy environment and we received regular corporate responsibility and ensuring on engagement of agents: reports from the newly-appointed it aligns with Group strategy: agreeing the scope and resources for VP Sustainability.
We agreed reviewing the effectiveness of the a new community involvement environmental performance targets Groups policies and procedures programme to be launched in 2012: and and the Groups medium-term relating to a safe environment: undertaking an annual review of the environmental sustainability priorities approving, or recommending to the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
and action plan, and reviewed the Board for approval, CR policies: Groups policies and processes on Terms of Reference and CR Committee reviewing the implementation of environmental improvement projects.
effectiveness appropriate environmental policies: updating its terms of reference to reflect Sir Peter Gershon monitoring the effectiveness of evolving practice.
The Board approved Chairman of the CR Committee workplace policies concerning the updated terms of reference: and employee relations, equal undertaking an effectiveness review.
opportunities, travel, entertainment The CR Committee comprises the and conflicts of interest: Further information on the work of the Chairman of the Company and reviewing whistleblowing Committee and the Groups approach non-executive directors.
Its terms of arrangements: and to corporate responsibility reporting is reference are available on the Companys satisfying itself that the Group has contained in the Corporate Responsibility website, www.
appropriate policies, systems and report on pages 30 to 35. controls in place in respect of the risks The Committee met four times during falling within the Committees remit.
Membership of the Committee and their attendance during the year were as follows: Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46
