Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Chief Executives review continued Corporate responsibility We seek to be a responsible organisation and to manage our business to make positive social, environmental and economic contributions to the regions in which we operate.
Evaluating our progress Priorities Progress Status Targets for 2013 Our homes and t Continued to work with Waste Resources and Action Programme t Monitor the use of tools provided in the community engagement communities WRAP and have achieved a 74% reduction in construction waste to manual and seek detailed feedback from our regional businesses.
landll per home completed since 2007.
Further reduced construction t Further develop the About Taylor Wimpey Web site and investigate waste to 3.36 tonnes in 2012 2011: 3.44 tonnes.
how we could approach on-line community engagement.
t Introduced a new set of community engagement tools and continued t Launch our BfL tool and develop a major training programme for to provide engagement training for employees.
design and technical staff covering all aspects of their work, including t Engaged with the Building for Life BfL partners behind the standard, sustainability and BfL.
and nalised our internal tool in 2012 for launch in 2013, which will t Undertake a review of supply chain resource efficiency covering reect the new BfL12 standard.
energy, carbon, water and waste.
t Started to measure soil to landll and water use and will start to publish gures in 2013.
Our customers t Continued to focus on our Customer Journey and customer service, t Continue to monitor all aspects of customer service in order to continually achieving a five star ranking from HBF.
t Introduced new signage into our sales centres including details of t Sales executives identied for career development will commence energy efficiency and sustainability performance of homes.
a new sales development programme and we will design a similar t Introduced the Taylor Wimpey Sales Academy with the aim of developing programme for sales managers.
the most knowledgeable and competent sales and marketing teams in t Start development of sustainability and community led planning modules the industry.
for the Taylor Wimpey Sales Academy programme.
Our people t Conducted an employee survey and undertook a review of the diversity t Draw up action plans to improve areas highlighted by our of our employees.
t Developed a new training programme on adopting a collective t Develop a modular training programme for production and responsibility for health and safety and delivered training to over technical employees.
500 individuals from senior managers to Board directors.
t Decrease the number of RIDDOR reportable injuries to 2011 levels t Continued to compare favourably to the construction industry with and continue to provide a minimum of two days HSE training for our an Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR of 389 versus the 2011 12 site management and operational staff.
Our partners t Vetted all of our national suppliers in the UK to ensure that they continued t Develop guidance for our regional businesses to ensure ongoing supplier to comply with our health and safety requirements.
compliance with our health and safety standards.
t Worked towards introducing a zero tolerance policy on safe delivery t Introduce zero tolerance policy on safe delivery and vehicle off-loading.
and vehicle off-loading by engaging with the UK Building Products t Identify and approach another tranche of major suppliers with a view to Delivery Working Group on policy and procedures to introduce.
working with them on packaging waste initiatives.
t Continued to work with our 12 largest suppliers on reducing packaging waste.
Our sustainability recognition Our approach to corporate responsibility This is the sixth year that we have produced a Corporate Responsibility Report as Taylor Wimpey.
We believe that this is an important tool in During 2012, Taylor Wimpey was selected as a highlighting how we address and embrace corporate responsibility.
component of the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index and a constituent of the We strive to make a positive difference to the communities in which FTSE4Good Index Series.
Companies in these we operate by providing or enhancing community facilities, education, indices have met stringent environmental, employment, infrastructure, as well as housing.
During 2012, Taylor social and governance criteria and are Wimpey contributed over 175 million to our local communities via positioned to capitalise on the benets of Section 106 and Section 75 planning obligations 2011: 130 million.
As a business dedicated to building homes and creating communities we care deeply about housing and homelessness issues.
During 2012 we continued to support Centrepoint and also set up a unique network of regional charities, allowing each of our 24 businesses to work with a charity within their area and for our employees to see the difference Visit our Corporate Responsibility Web site for their efforts makes.
We are proud of our charity partnership and of the more details and to download a copy big impact that we have had on a number of small organisations.
of our Corporate Responsibility Report: plc.
co. uk  More information on what we do and why, as well as our key areas Visit our About Taylor Wimpey Web site for more of focus can be found within our dedicated Corporate Responsibility details about our approach to land & planning, Report, our plc Web site and our About Taylor Wimpey brochure sustainability, design and developing and Web site.
communities, as well as case studies of developments we have built in your area: about.
co. uk Pete Redfern Chief Executive 14 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
