Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Membership of the CSR Committee The UK Code does not provide guidance for the membership of this Committee.
The Board believes that a diverse membership drawn from the Board and management is appropriate.
Executive Director Board Chairman Non-Board member of management Independent non-executive Director with month of appointment to the committee Michael Tobin Chairman Michael Tobin Feb 2011 Maurizio Carli CSR Committee Chairman April 2012 Rob Coupland In 2011, the Board established a CSR Committee Managing Director UK in recognition of the importance it places on Feb 2011 these activities in the Group.
Following additional Sahar Elhabashi April 2012 appointments in 2012, our Committee now James Tyler includes two independent non-executive Director of Marketing and Communications Directors and the Group Marketing and John Hughes April 2012 attendee since Feb 2011 Feb 2011 Communications Director, as well as the Board Chairman, the UK Managing Director and me Specic objectives achieved in 2012 asChairman.
Monitored existing CSR objectives for the Group and performance against these: During 2011, we established targets to measure performance in these areas in order to track the Groups ongoing alignment to being a sustainable business.
Identied the next group of quantiable objectives: and The inuence of the Committee has continued to feed through into the Ongoing review of market and reporting requirements as they pertain way the business operates and reports on corporate responsibility and to the Groups CSR strategy and future activities.
We intend this to continue in the future.
As well as showing progress on commitments made last year, this report sets out clear Specic objectives set for 2013 performance measures for TelecityGroups most material corporate Continue to monitor existing CSR objectives and performances responsibility issues.
These targets are linked to specic achievement against these: objectives for 2013 and five-year goals for 2016 set in 2011, offering a clear long-term vision of our approach to corporate responsibility.
In addition, Monitor newly identied CSR objectives in advance of consideration Iwill discuss in this report new initiatives that the Group inaugurated during for publication: 2012 and how we intend to report on their progress going forward.
Continue to identify additional areas for monitoring: and Ongoing review of market and reporting requirements as they pertain Future direction to the Groups CSR strategy and future activities.
In 2011, we set targets that relate to the most material corporate responsibility issues for the Group and the impacts and inuences ourbusiness has on stakeholders.
These were carbon efficiency, customer satisfaction, employee engagement, accreditation of robust management systems and business integrity.
For each of these areas a quantiable metric with a specic performance target was established for the near term, and a five-year goal was also set.
We have continued to monitor the performance of the business in each of these areas and I am pleased to report that in 2012 good progress was made against all of these targets.
We will continue to report annually onprogress against these longer-term targets.
Through this process, stakeholders in the business will have a clear picture of what corporate responsibility means to us at TelecityGroup and how it is an integral part of our sustainable growth strategy.
Managing environmental impact TelecityGroup has ambitious expansion plans to meet growing customerdemand for premium highly-connected data centre capacity across Europe.
In terms of environmental impacts, a key challenge is to maintain improvements in the energy efficiency of existing facilities and to ensurefacilities obtained through acquisition are brought up to standard as quickly as possible.
In the past, when companies designed data centres, the key concern was ensuring the resilience of service provision.
Whilst this remains a critical success factor, in todays marketplace managing energy use and the environmental impact of facilities is also The UK Code does not include provisions specic to CSR Matters.
50 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 CSR Committee calendar for 2012 January March April May June July September October November February August December Reviews of: Reviews of: Reviews of: KPIs for each CSR objective, External feedback on CSR Performance against 2012 targets including agreement on those Committee report in Annual Targets proposed for 2013 appropriate for external reporting Report and on other Group Matters in relation to employees activities Performance against these KPIs, Emerging developments for including: Possible additional KPIs for the otherCSR areas future Employee turnover CSR and reporting strategy over Practice in other companies, Anti-bribery policy roll-out coming years regulatory environment, and Carbon Usage Effectiveness bestpractice development Initial discussion on Committee CUE objectives for 2013 Employee turnover measurement Committee report for inclusion Anti-bribery policy internationally inAnnual Report Agreement to review likely CUE Committee objectives for 2012 inconnection with future major acquisitions and expansion proposals Review and discussion of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on implementation of actions agreed at previous meetings Progress against CSR objectives The Group is ever vigilant of the need to take action when existing best-placed in the data centre sector.
The Group was ranked third ina facilities, equipment or procedures require retrotting or upgrading to peer group that incorporated organisations in the wider ICT marketplace.
improve environmental efficiency: there has been significant continued The CRC performance score took into account the steps a business investment in this respect over the past 12 months.
We have also initiated hadtaken to implement energy management and reporting procedures.
more structured programmes to measure our water usage and waste, These included installing Automated Voluntary Metering AVM systems which are discussed in more detail below.
and achieving the Carbon Trust Standard accreditation, a rigorous certication process requiring organisations to measure, manage and Managing and measuring energy use reduce carbon emissions across their operations.
In December 2012 the TelecityGroups business growth will inevitably mean an increase in power Government announced that the league table element of the CRC was usage for the Group.
By virtue of the Groups scale and expertise, IT tobe abolished.
equipment housed in TelecityGroup data centres is more efficient to run than if it were hosted in organisations smaller proprietary server rooms.
Engaging with industry The IT hardware that supports the digital economy typically resides in Inclusion in the CRC scheme resulted in the imposition of a new tax on all highly-connected data centres such as those operated by TelecityGroup.
of the constituent members covered by the scheme.
While engaging with It is our view that the data centre industry has a vital role to play in the required legislation TelecityGroup, along with most operators of data creating a more  economy.
TelecityGroup centres in the UK, is seeking to work with the UK Government to replace iscommitted to minimising our environmental impact, focussing on the CRC scheme with an alternative that encourages further energy improving operational and management processes developed through efficiency whilst not penalising companies that are helping to drive our Energy Management Programme.
This is complemented by the economic growth.
One of the themes of our engagement is to work ongoing implementation and adherence to the best environmental withkey opinion formers inside and outside the industry on the wider management practices contained in the EU Code of Conduct for environmental impact of the digitalisation of business and commerce.
Data centre operators need to be able to demonstrate the critical role of the sector in mitigating carbon use elsewhere and show that the industry Energy efficiency and emissions reporting itself is a responsible consumer of energy.
To this end, TelecityGroup In November 2011, the inaugural 2010 11 CRC Carbon Reduction continues to be an active member of Intellect the leading trade Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme performance league table was association representing the UK technology industry and seeks to published by the UKs Environment Agency.
TelecityGroup was placed makelegitimate representations to the UK Government regarding its 103rd in the league table which ranked over 2,000 organisations in the UK approaches to climate change policy.
On behalf of the data centre that consume more than 6,000MWh of electricity per year according to industry, Intellects Data Centre Group is seeking to negotiate a sectoraweighted score.
TelecityGroups ranking was the highest and therefore level Climate Change Agreement CCA with UK Government.
CCAs are Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 51 At specic meetings At each main meeting Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued the result of recognition by Government that unilateral carbon taxes can carbon usage effectiveness CUE measure which we introduced during damage the competitiveness of energy intensive businesses operating in 2011.
CUE captures a combined picture of the energy efficiency of a global market.
54 industry sectors are already covered by the scheme.
operations and the carbon intensity of the energy used.
It encourages Participants can exclude eligible sites from CRC and obtain a 65% rising individual data centres both to improve the efficiency of systems and to 90% later in 2013 discount from the Climate Change Levy a procedures and to seek out low carbon sources of energy.
non-domestic tax on energy derived from fossil fuels.
In return they must Combined with internal reporting on PUE, monitoring CUE provides the meet challenging targets for improving their energy efficiency or reducing Group with important information to compare the efficiency of data their carbon emissions.
The benets of a CCA for the sector are centres and explore trade-offs in energy efficiency strategies under significant in both financial and environmental terms.
In conjunction with various use scenarios and different operating conditions.
Intellect we have consulted with the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC which has accepted that a CCA would be a better tool todrive efficiency in data centres than existing policy tools like CRC.
Implementing and maintaining Group-wide standards Weexpect to see a decision from DECC in the first few months of 2013.
Through our Group-wide certication to ISO 14001, the international Separately, we remain actively engaged in the Green Grid and also standard for environmental management systems, we are able to submitted data to the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2012. effectively implement and manage best practice energy management.
Aswe acquire businesses our Quality Management team spend considerable time ensuring that these new facilities are put through the Measuring and reporting energy efficiency, carbon and same rigorous standards and improvement procedures.
This is to ensure greenhouse gases GHG a consistently high level of quality and systems management is available Through 2012, we further improved our environmental management for our customers in every single one of our facilities.
performance by introducing more energy monitoring and targeting systems and installing more sophisticated metering systems and energy A new energy management standard, ISO 50001 which was launched analysis.
We continue to monitor the Groups annualised power usage in2011 and is a parallel standard complementing ISO 14001 but with effectiveness PUE measure which is also reported to the Board on anincreased focus on best practice in energy management is to be abi-monthly basis.
While this important metric will remain an internal implemented across the Group.
Certication to ISO 50001 is particularly measure, we are committed to reporting externally on the Groups relevant for energy intensive industries or those facing GHG emissions regulation or legislation.
We intend to roll out the new ISO 50001 standard across the Group over the next 24 months.
Targets and longer-term goals Target measure Why it is important 2011 actual Target for 2012 2012 result Target for 2013 Goal for 2016 Group CUE kg CO kWh Carbon efficiency 0.651 Improvement 0.629 3.4% Improvement of at Maintain 2 annualised for is a key measure of at least 3% least 3% reduction continuous 1 TelecityGroup data of broader reduction from from 2012 level improvement of 1 centre footprint environmental 2011 level at least 3% per excluding UK Grid performance annum from 2011level Workforce engagement We want our 65% Increase 76% Continue trajectory Maintain measured as a % of people to feel participation towards 80% continuous employees participating astrong rate in participation improvement in employee satisfaction commitment to employee ofat least 3% per survey the business survey by 5% annum from from 2011 level 2011level Workforce satisfaction Motivated people 77.40% Achieve 79% Continue trajectory Achieve a as measured by perform better improvement towards achieving satisfaction proportion of insatisfaction 80% satisfaction score of 80% employees agreeing score by 5% score or above orabove with the statement in the annual employee survey I really enjoy working for TelecityGroup 2 Proportion of capital Business 62% 70% of all new 75% Continue trajectory 90% of all new projects contractors integrityis key major capital towards 90% of all major capital compliant with tosuccessful projects new major capital projects anti-corruption protocol andsustainable contractors by projects contractors contractors by as measured by % of growth contracts value contracts value by contracts value total capital spend to have signed to sign protocol in to have signed 3 covered by contractors protocol each year protocol working on capital projects awarded during the year who have signed the protocol 1 Future CUE results may be affected by: a acquisition of data centre assets which may operate at signicantly lower efficiency rates: or b changes in a national grid supplys carbon emission factor.
2 Refers to value of new major capital projects awarded in the UK in 2011 major 200k value.
3 Refers to value of all new major capital projects awarded in 2012 across the Group.
52 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Greenhouse gas emissions Water and waste making progress The Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors reports Regulations 2013 Beyond these issues that are critical to the future success of the areexpected to come into effect this year, with compliance expected business, we recognise that there are other concerns that will be of forreporting from 31 March 2014 onwards.
These new regulations will importance in the near future.
For example, many new technologies require businesses listed on the London Stock Exchange to report their thatdrive energy efficiency will also increase water usage through levels of global greenhouse gas emissions.
In response to this change we intend to publish the Groups GHG We are now considering water efficiency, recognising the importance of emissions to comply with the new regulations.
We understand that water to the resilience of the Groups sites.
To this end, an assessment of company GHG disclosures will not require third party audit and existing water measurement techniques and practices is now underway, verication.
However, to demonstrate our commitment to embracing the including a review of water metering capabilities.
For data centres where new reporting requirements, we intend to implement the reporting and existing metering allows, through 2013 we will put in place consistent best practice framework of the Carbon Trust Standard, which is already Group-wide measurement standards.
For facilities where current held in the UK, across our entire European estate in 2013.
The Carbon metering is not sufficient, we will investigate the feasibility of bringing Trust Standard is based on rigorous assessment and audit process and themetering up to the required standard.
I look forward to reporting requires organisations to measure, manage and reduce relative carbon onthis progress in our 2013 Annual Report.
emissions across their own operations.
It is awarded for demonstrating an Although physical waste is a relatively small proportion of the Groups improvement in carbon efficiency, and committing to delivering ongoing environmental impact, we are taking measures to ensure we minimise year-on-year improvements.
The methodology used in the Carbon Trust waste and recycle as much unavoidable waste as possible.
The Groups assessment process is one of those recommended by Defra for this GHG certication to ISO 14001 sets stringent tracking measures for waste reporting requirement.
We believe that implementing the Carbon Trust management.
Most of the jurisdictions in which TelecityGroup operates framework across Europe will not only enable us to meet our reporting also impose legal requirements in terms of dealing with industrial waste.
requirements but also demonstrate that we have taken genuine action In 2013, we intend to introduce formal internal measurement of waste toreduce the Groups environmental impact.
into our internal KPIs to enable us to monitor and ultimately reduce We intend to publish our GHG emissions report in the 2013 Annual Report ouroverall wastage levels over time.
and will set targets around such emissions in due course.
Targets and longer-term goals continued Target measure Why it is important 2011 actual Target for 2012 2012 result Target for 2013 Goal for 2016 Achievement and Management Certication Maintain Retained ISO Retain ISO 14001, Maintain ongoing maintenance systems external maintained integration of 14001, ISO 27001, ISO 27001, ISO 9001 integration of of ISO OHSAS certication in existing Group-wide ISO 9001 and and OHSAS 18001 Group-wide certication improves data centres compliance OHSAS 18001 certication across compliance and standards on and audit certication all existing sites.
audit systems to Certication allaspects of systems to across all existing Achieve same retain ISO 14001, on track for operational retain ISO sites.
Achieved certications in data ISO 27001, ISO new data performance 14001, ISO same centres acquired 9001 and centres 27001, ISO certications during 2012 where OHSAS 18001 9001 and indata centres not certied.
Initiate certication OHSAS 18001 acquired during certication across all sites.
certication 2011 where not process of ISO Achieve ISO across all sites.
Achieve in Achieved new 25999-2 across Achieve ISO standard BS Group to be 50001 in all sites datacentres acquired during 25999-2 in all achieved by end of 2011 where not UKfacilities 2015.
Initiate ISO certied 50001 certication across entire estate to be achieved by end of2014 Achievement of Stakeholders want Maintained Maintain listing in Maintained listing Maintain listing in Maintain listing external CSR issueto engage with FTSE4Good FTSE4Good in FTSE4Good FTSE4Good inFTSE4Good specic certication companies that listing Implement Carbon Achieve and byindependent have credible Achieved Maintain Carbon Maintained Trust reporting sustain Carbon institutions and external framework for Trust Standard Carbon Trust Trust Standard Carbon Trust agencies endorsement TelecityGroup GHG certication Standard certication Standard asaresponsible certication emissions across across all Group business entire estate sites Engaged with Continue to Carbon engage with CDP Engaged with CDP Continue to engage Continue to Disclosure with CDP engage with CDP Project CDP Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 53 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued Responsible procurement The process of integrating new businesses into these management Procurement at TelecityGroup is made up largely of three components: systems has been maintained in 2012 and beyond with the successful buildings, energy and equipment.
In all three areas we try to minimise the integration of Data Electronics and UK Grid, both acquired in 2011.
For example, a number of data centres similar integration process is already underway for Tenue and Academica, use energy from renewable sources.
This includes some of our data the two businesses acquired in Helsinki in 2012.
To further strengthen centres in Paris, Stockholm, Amsterdam, London and in the newly these processes, in early 2012 the Group launched a new bespoke acquired facilities in Helsinki.
software system to improve management audit and tracking of any non-conformance.
Energy efficiency is a key buying criterion for TelecityGroup as part During the year certication to BS 25999-2, a standard for business ofitsoverall assessment of the lifecycle running costs of equipment.
TheGroup is continually working with IT infrastructure manufacturers to continuity management, was achieved across all UK facilities.
The help develop devices that consume less power without compromising standard provides a best practice framework to minimise disruption operational efficiency.
This process of engagement with suppliers is one andmaximise recovery time during unexpected events that could bring important way in which we are trying to inuence industry-wide standards business to a standstill.
BS 25999-2 has subsequently been superseded for environmental performance.
by BS ISO 22301 to enable easier international adoption and recognition.
We intend to roll out this updated standard and achieve certication in Through 2012, the Group continued to engage with suppliers working the rest of our facilities by the end of 2015. onits capital projects with an anti-corruption initiative that was first introduced in 2011.
The anti-corruption protocol provides additional governance on the appointment of major contractors involved in new Employees build projects.
The protocol is designed to apply to companies involved We recognise that the skills, knowledge and commitment of our insignicant contracts and also to significant equipment vendor workforce are vital factors in our continuing success.
As a result, we invest relationships where major is dened as any contract value over signicantly in developing the skills and expertise of our people.
We have also sought to apply the protocol to existing to challenge and develop all employees to perform at their optimum level.
During 2011, the initial focus for the adoption We encourage and support ongoing learning: we endeavour to provide ofthe protocol was in the UK to ensure their compliance to recent opportunities for individuals to enhance and develop their careers, for example by creating exposure to new experiences, internal transfers and anti-bribery legislation Bribery Act 2010.
To this end, in 2011, over 60% of promotions: and we endeavour to create environments where people the value of major new UK capital projects were covered by the protocol.
feel valued and rewarded for their contribution.
Although the Group only engages with suppliers whom it believes conduct their business in a compliant and ethical manner, it will continue Training is also offered to employees at all levels of the business.
to work to increase the number engaged in the Groups specic In2012, the company sought to offer training across all disciplines, from anti-bribery protocol.
During 2012 focus was extended to cover all administration to technical staff, as we rmly believe that by investing in geographies in which the Group is engaged in major capital investment our employees and ensuring they have the necessary skill sets, we can projects.
As highlighted in last years report, this is an iterative process as motivate and retain the highest standards and continue excellence suppliers are typically required to update their own internal procedures across the business.
and sometimes their existing contractual relationships with the Group Within our Succession Planning Programme for the Executive Team, in order to accord with the new protocol.
There is also a certain degree wehave tailored specic training programmes around complementing ofchallenge engaging non-UK domiciled businesses adapting standard individuals knowledge and experience by working with key institutions procedures to UK law.
However, despite these challenges, in 2011 the around the world.
Group established stretching targets for the roll out of this protocol By educating employees, and broadening their knowledge and skills, overseveral years.
Successful progress was made in 2012 against these wewill continue to have a dedicated and experienced staff base who targets, with 75% of all major capital projects contracted during the year allcontribute to the success of the Group.
being covered by this protocol.
I look forward to reporting next year on the ongoing roll-out of this programme.
Staff commitment is an important element of achieving customer satisfaction four out of five staff are in roles that are dedicated to direct customer service and customer engineering roles.
During the year, our Group-wide ISO compliance and audit annual employee engagement survey was completed with over 75% TelecityGroup has continued to develop and strengthen its integrated ofemployees taking part.
Results showed that over three quarters of quality management systems, enabling ISO and related certications respondents 78.99% agree with the statement that they really enjoy across the Group for security, quality and environmental management, working for TelecityGroup.
Though slightly behind the improvement together with occupational health and safety.
The delivery of these target of 5% which we set ourselves on the 2011 results 77.4%, this was systems is coordinated by an Operational Standards Team comprising nevertheless a positive move towards reaching our long-term goal of subject matter experts in each area.
This team provides support to achieving an 80% agreement rating.
Feedback from the survey is analysed country managers to ensure they are fully conversant in what needs and programmes subsequently developed to respond to or improve on tobedone to maintain performance improvements.
areas that employees have highlighted as requiring attention.
Working days lost due to sickness and other absences are uniformly low across the Group with an average of less than half a day lost to absence per employee during 2012.
We do not intend to set public reporting targets around this data as these levels have remained at such low levels for several years.
Diversity is an important constituent of decision making within the business and is reported on more fully by John Hughes in the report ofour Nominations Committee on page 56.
Cooling system check at Condorcet, Paris.
54 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Several members of the Board hold senior advisory positions in certain Health and safety We rmly believe in the importance of providing a safe and healthy charities.
John Hughes is Ambassador for the Alzheimers Society.
I am a environment, and adequate welfare facilities, for all our staff, contractors, Board member of Byte Night, which raises money for Action for Children, visitors and anyone affected by our operations.
We also take very the Technology Leadership Group and the Internet & Media Leadership seriously our responsibility to establish and maintain safe working Group of the Princes Trust, a member of the fundraising advisory board practices.
To this end we have implemented an occupational health and of Great Ormond Street Hospital and I sit on the fundraising committee of Make A Wish Foundation UK.
Finally, I am also Chairman of the Friends safety management system designed around the international standard of The Loomba Trust, a charity providing education and aid for children BS OHSAS 18001:2007.
This validates companies that show excellence ofpoor widows in India.
Brian McArthur-Muscroft is a member of the inhealth and safety performance, and demonstrates the leadership to Corporate Development Board for the National Society for the Prevention reduce risk and create an injury-free workplace.
The Groups Health and of Cruelty to Children.
Full details ofour charitable work can be found on Safety Policy incorporates a comprehensive reporting system to ensure the Group website at www.
that the Board is aware of every incident.
A uniform accident and incident data collection procedure is also implemented so that we can benchmark On behalf of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee our operations as well as monitor our performance.
TelecityGroup is committed to: The prevention of injury and ill health: Compliance with health and safety regulations, laws and codes ofpractice relevant to each country where we operate: Michael Tobin Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Consulting with staff regarding health and safety policies and procedures: 12 February 2013 Ensuring that all staff and contractors have appropriate competencies to undertake their work safely and without risk to health: and Catering for people with disabilities and expectant and or nursing mothers.
Customer satisfaction The customer is at the heart of everything TelecityGroup does in designing, building and operating data centres across Europe.
Our success is predicated on providing capacity to support our customers long-term business growth.
We are committed to achieving the highest levels of customer satisfaction and we closely monitor the Groups performance in this area.
The 2012 survey indicated that 97% of customers are either satisfied or very satisfied with the level of service that TelecityGroup provides.
The Group seeks to maintain this very high level of customer satisfaction and is committed to continuing to report on this measure in the future.
Community investment Community investment and charitable partnerships continue to play animportant role within our business and we strive to support the local communities in which the business operates.
We believe the Group can have most impact by focussing on initiatives that promote education andopportunities for disadvantaged children and young people.
During the year, the business made cash and in-kind donations of over 182,000 to a range of charities including the Make-A-Wish Foundation, Great Ormond Street Hospital and Action for Children.
In addition, the Group continued its role as a patron of the Princes Trust Technology Leadership Group.
A list of our charitable donations of 2,000 or more isgiven in the Directors report on page 96.
FTSE4Good is an index designed to objectively measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
TelecityGroups continued membership in the FTSE4Good index acknowledges the Groups commitment to responsible business practice.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 55
