Environmental Report FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 Introduction advisory bodies, we spoke to approximately 200 people In 2012, we were awarded Retro Expos Outstanding or organisations about our environmental approach.
Achievement Award in recognition of the positioning Regrettably, 28 of these 30 in 2011 were complaints.
work we have done to ensure we take advantage of the We recognise that from time to time conflicts can arise low carbon construction economy.
We have set targets with neighbours, or we will have supplied materials for 2020 and have invested to improve our analysis of customers regard as lacking environmental credentials.
our supply chain carbon opportunities and liabilities.
On each occasion we seek to listen, react and agree The environmental impact of all group activities is changes where possible.
Encouragingly, we had a positive engagement with investors in 2012 about our environmental approach Process improvements and outside influences and this has improved the level of disclosure in this Management systems report.
Wherever possible, we now include absolute The Groups certified Environmental Management System levels of emissions or consumption and an indicator now covers BSS and PTS, but does not yet fully cover stating the level of measured versus estimated data.
Toolstation or businesses not wholly owned by the Group.
Our strategic priorities, themes and objectives The strategic management of our environmental are formally reviewed regularly against solicited approach was improved in 2012 by adopting key or unsolicited commentary we receive about our environmental metrics and targets out to 2020.
We environmental approach along with the feedback from regard responsible operations as both important and our Non Executive Environmental Advisory Panel.
Our zero waste to landfill ambition believe this makes our approach more effective and has been transposed to a 2017 target.
By 2020, we closer to stakeholder expectations.
expect to reduce our carbon dioxide intensity by 48%.
What we report The effect of the law For the 2013 calendar year we will report under the What we do, and how we do it, is partially a response proposed Green House Gas mandatory reporting rules to regulatory drivers.
We estimate that it costs us and restate comparatives to ensure consistency.
For 2012 2.2 million in direct fees to comply with current data we reviewed the calculations of our metrics, which environmental regulations.
We have increased our are produced by combining measured, estimated and direct advocacy and interest in industry bodies like the extrapolated data, but did not materially change them.
Construction Products Association CPA, British Retail We have increased our content of environmental Consortium BRC and the Green Building Council GBC information on the Web and in other publications and so we can help achieve better regulation.
have continued to have this report and its contents Opportunities from environmental regulation such as verified by Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance.
A copy The Green Deal, which officially launched on January 28 of the verification statement is downloadable from the 2013, have yet to materialise however, we expect this Travis Perkins plc.
to build gradually as consumers become more informed.
Travis Perkins and our Green Deal Provider Partner, Buying Responsibly Toriga, were among the first organisations to create an Timber and timber products approved Green Deal Plan.
The Travis Perkins Toriga In 2012, we estimate that 90% by value of the timber Green Deal proposition will allow customers to gain and timber products purchased by the Group was from access to this growing market opportunity as it develops certified well managed or controlled forests.
Over 85% of the timber data comes from our central sales records, with the remaining estimated.
The effect of stakeholder views In 2012, excluding regular support for our contractor All centrally purchased major timber product groups Wickes customers tendering activities and routine dialogue are either fully certified or a plan for full certification Call Centre with WWF, CPA, BRC, GBC or our own environmental is underway.
By Q2 of 2013, all materials we import Brackmills 46 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 47 REPORTS ENVIR ONMENT AL REPOR T directly from outside of the EU, which are the focus Operating responsibly of the EU timber regulations EUTR, will have the Carbon dioxide intensity assurance of full chain of custody from credible In 2012, 101,954 tonnes of carbon dioxide were emitted certification schemes.
as a result of our consumption of energy 96,348 tonnes However, we are now faced with the prospect of in 2011 and 104,602 tonnes of carbon dioxide from our considerable supply uncertainty and significant transport activities 104,082 tonnes in 2011. upheaval to our internal processes as the certification Over 95% of the data is from measured sources with the bodies adapt from being a voluntary label of remainder extrapolated from expenditure on fuel.
environmental quality to a compliance tool under the EUTR.
Whilst we are confident the change will happen, A combination of relatively benign temperatures, the timing and requirements are unclear, and therefore more grid energy coming from renewable sources we have chosen not to engage with colleagues and local and changing colleague behaviours has kept our suppliers until we can communicate clear expectations.
performance flat in 2012 despite increased vehicle miles This engagement is vital to achieve and sustain full as a result of our supply chain network expansion.
certification with 10% of timber still specified and Out of hours electricity useage within the Wickes purchased locally by our merchant branch managers.
estate has fallen by a cumulative value of 7% in 2012 We have therefore reluctantly concluded that, given the over 2011 as a result of our Environmental Improvement short amount of time remaining, we will not achieve Scheme.
Approximately 400 branches now use route- 100% certified timber and timber product purchases planning software to increase vehicle efficiency, leading by 2014 as we had hoped.
Our new target for 2014 is to to fewer emissions.
In total, we estimate that these purchase 95% of timber and timber products by value changes in behaviour have reduced carbon dioxide from credibly certified well managed or controlled emissions by 4,139 tonnes.
We have chosen to concentrate on changing behaviours in the early part of our carbon strategy, Resource efficiency as a cost effective way of keeping emissions in check.
In 2012, we continued to source products with recycled Addressing consumption choices will remain our priority content and worked with our suppliers to reduce in 2013 and 2014, even if this means that progress will packaging.
Wickes has achieved the 15% packaging be modest.
Our previous targets were overambitious and reduction target under the WRAP Home Improvement need to be revised.
Our new target is for a 20% reduction Sector Commitment.
Our carbon strategy We are currently examining the Construction is now based on achieving a 48% reduction in intensity Excellence WRAP construction product resource by 2020 on our 2005 levels with a 37% reduction by efficiency plans to determine how we might act to 2017 against the same baseline.
deliver the greatest leverage and resource efficiency gain in 2013 and beyond.
Waste We will measure our performance in this area with a In 2012 we created 41,241 tonnes of waste with 31,805 single resource efficiency target, which we are hoping to tonnes, 77%, being diverted from landfill 60% in 2011. set in 2013.
Over 95% of the data provided by our waste contractors are measured and the remainder extrapolated on an Embedded impacts average branch-tonnage basis.
How we manage carbon emissions in our supply chain represents a significant, sustainable competitive In 2012, our waste to landfill intensity was at an all time advantage.
In 2012, we embarked on a partnership low at 2.9 tonnes per million pounds of yard and core with Carbon River to model how much, and where, sales.
We confirmed our zero waste landfill target for carbon was being emitted in the entire value chain 2017 and introduced a further interim target of a 90% of our products and bought in goods and services.
We reduction to landfill from 2005 levels by 2014. propose to use this measure as a broad indicator of our We have achieved our leading performance in waste environmental health and robustness.
We expect to management by having strong partnerships with waste publish our initial findings in mid 2013. management companies, particularly in respect of our customer waste offering, a service that now turns Supply chain environmental management over 4.1 million.
Here, Hippo Waste Solutions have We continue to scrutinise our supply chain for been helpful and we have worked together to develop environmental risk and require our partners to make recycling solutions for managed service customers and a commitment to environmental management.
Our our consumer kitchen and bathroom installer service.
figures suggest that approximately 66% by value of the More excitingly, our collaboration with Recipro in Wales products our merchant division distributes come from and the North West has enabled us to supply unwanted supply chains, which are regarded as responsible by stock to community projects, a BREEAM assessment, helping our customers meet More managers are choosing to introduce branchhigher building codes.
recycling zones, using the information provided by 48 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Waste tonnage CO emissions Timber certification Environmental 2 Timber purchased.
incidents and OECD sales deflated figures.
complaints Tonnes waste per m yard and Tonnes CO per m group sales.
due to a small data error in the 2011 report.
In 2013, we with the launch of a suite of new build and retrofit are planning to introduce even more opportunities for construction plans, providing the construction industry managers to increase recycling through segregation to with easy to follow guidelines to meet the changing reduce still further the component of our waste that goes requirements of building regulations and the Code for to landfill.
The SBS website now has over 400 pages of information on sustainable building, covering, Water products, specifications and practical advice.
In 2013 SBS will be heavily involved in delivering the Green Deal 3 In 2012, we used 312,959 m of water.
and ECO home improvement measures, and continuing Data provided by our energy bureau contractor to bring innovative products and services to the UK from invoices.
3 Our water consumption is equivalent to 85m for every million pounds of sales.
We continue to actively identify Selling certified timber and timber products irregular consumption patterns and address their causes Our customers, both large and small, are increasingly and through these actions believe we will achieve a 45% concerned about purchasing well-managed timber and reduction on 2008 levels by 2014. timber products and we anticipate this concern will only grow with the introduction of the EUTR.
We are well Pollution prevention placed to deal with such increased interest as we retain Small oil and paint spills continue to number most one of the largest multi-site Chain of Custody certificates amongst environmental incidents we experience and we in Europe, which means certified products are widely have increased the priority accorded to dealing with these.
In 2012, we recorded 16 incidents of which 13 needed We are really pleased that the UK Construction reporting to the regulator because of a potential risk to Group has agreed a common position on both certified pollution of controlled environments.
In each case the material requirements and reporting, and welcome regulator was satisfied with the remedial actions we the opportunity to work in partnership with our took and chose not to investigate further.
We were not customers on improving timber traceability in the prosecuted for any environmental offence in 2012. construction sector.
In 2013, because we have raised the profile of effective pollution prevention, we are targeting a reduction in the total number of incidents to less than 10.
