Health and Safety Report FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 Our Stay Safe philosophy and objectives Background to our journey Health and safety continues to be integral to everything Our journey to Stay Safe started in 2008 following two we do, from the Group Board right down to each very serious incidents in the previous two years.
colleague in every branch, store, warehouse and The transition to adopting Stay Safe office.
We believe that all injuries are avoidable, but 1974: Health and Safety at Work Act we appreciate that achieving a zero injury rate is a major challenge to a business of our size and variety.
1974-2007: Reactive and stay legal approach Nevertheless, we aim to be the leader in reducing and eliminating workplace injuries in our industry, and this 2006: Serious injury to one of our Keyline drivers is embodied in our Stay Safe ethos.
This will require 2006-2007: Review risk assessments and dedicated effort and perseverance before we can be even safe working procedures slightly satisfied with our performance.
It is vital that, as an organisation, we recognise our room for improvement 2007: Fatality of a building site labourer during a and remain open to challenge on new ideas, equipment site delivery and processes.
2008: Stay Safe vision and initiative created.
Underpinning our Stay Safe philosophy is the Start of new journey importance of reporting: not just incidents that result in injury, but near miss occurrences that we can learn Between 2008 and 2011: Significant reduction in from and respond to with actions to prevent our people accident frequency rate getting hurt in the future.
As a result, we have improved 2012: Responsibility for Stay Safe both our online reporting tools and the subsequent devolved to our divisions analysis and review of all incidents and near miss occurrences.
We have recently raised the bar in terms of what we now classify as a safe branch - we only regard a Data trends store or branch as a safe site if they report no incidents Whilst there is no excuse for accidents, the Group faces of injury, but also report near miss occurrences and many challenges: our 3,400 vehicles make 7.8 million receive a green audit score for safety.
deliveries every year, travelling in excess of 100 million miles.
We would welcome any opportunity to refresh the contacts we have had historically with our immediate competitors and widen further this network in order to engage in meaningful exchanges in relation to safety best practice and innovations.
Group accident frequency rates Our accident frequency rate lost time injuries versus the hours worked initially fell then plateaued from 2009 to 2011.
A slight rise in 2012 is not acceptable to us and so we have adopted a new approach to the way we manage safety throughout our Group.
Trend in accident frequency rates The Board reviewing a re-enactment of a serious accident.
All Stay Safe activity is reviewed by the Plc Stay Safe Committee, which comprises me as Chairman with Group Board members Ruth Anderson, John Carter and Robert Walker.
The Committee met with representatives of group management on three occasions during 2012 to discuss Stay Safe progress, and also visited several sites, including one where we witnessed and reviewed a 2009 2010 2011 2012 re-enactment of a serious accident.
Hours worked m Accident frequency rate 50 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Lost time injuries in 2012 Over 40 senior managers are currently working The type of lost time injuries we experienced has not on Stay Safe projects as part of our senior manager changed from 2011, despite our prioritising training development programme, which is being run in activity towards preventing the most frequently conjunction with Ashridge.
occurring types of injury: The strategy behind our approach 2012 Lost time injuries Devolving responsibility and cultivating a more 4% committed level of ownership is underpinned by: 5% Injured while 4% Leadership our business leaders demonstrate that manual handling they own and drive the Stay Safe message in their Hit by moving 30% falling object business: 11% Personal responsibility and belief all colleagues Slipped, tripped or fell on the same level believing that all injuries are preventable and acting Cuts and bruises accordingly: 23% Hit something fixed Stay Safe behaviour our systems and safe operating 23% or stationary procedures being simple and realistic whilst being Fell from a height understood and followed by us all.
Other We have worked hard to re-intone this philosophy in Other includes: hit by a moving vehicle, contact with machinery or all our communications.
For instance at our Group material being machined, exposure to a harmful substance, injured by an animal or physically assaulted by a person.
Conference in 2012, we presented all our business leaders with a two minute video entitled I am not a Non-colleague injuries during 2012 number, involving a large number of colleagues from 789 injuries to people not employed by the Group were across the business with the simple message: Safety is reported in 2012 2011: 729 of which 64% occurred in not about numbers, but always about people.
The video our Consumer division.
The majority were minor slips, can be viewed on YouTube.
com trips, falls and cuts, however two incidents resulted in major injuries and one tragically resulted in a death in Recent activities one of our branches.
Colleague opinions about safety All of these very regrettable incidents have, or are Our Stay Safe programme continues to yield high in the process of being thoroughly investigated: any levels of awareness and buy in from our colleagues.
All lessons learned will be acted upon.
our divisional colleague opinion surveys during 2012 recorded that over 90% of our colleagues feel safe at Our organisation structure work: that their manager genuinely cares about their In 2011 we improved our Stay Safe performance, safety at work and that they have received the Stay Safe however we felt that next stage on our Stay Safe journey training they need to do their jobs safely.
was increased ownership of safety at the business level.
At the end of the first quarter of 2012, we reorganised Differences in Stay Safe performance our group safety team to ensure their focus mirrored our across our divisions and brands divisional structure and increase personal ownership We recognise that when measured by their specific and accountability for Stay Safe amongst regional and accident frequency and severity rates some divisions branch management teams.
This move allows each of and brands are further ahead in their Stay Safe change our businesses to tailor health and safety actions to the process than others.
The main difference in many specific issues they face.
cases is that some have been more successful at engaging colleagues with the Stay Safe journey.
Beyond Support from our Stay Safe central team those differences in culture, values and attitudes, the Our divisions can still draw on the support of an expert inconsistent approaches have been affected further by team of safety trainers within our operational training the varying challenges each business has faced this function.
During 2012, they have trained more than year in their trading patterns, resource levels, business 1,000 managers in accident prevention and reporting, change projects even the weather!
Whilst our reporting risk assessment and on-site traffic management, as of, and learning from, actual accidents and from near well as promoting the adoption of a safety culture in misses across all of our business continues to improve it our branches.
is frustrating that this is not translating into consistent A small central team provides expert health and performance improvements.
safety advice by telephone and online to more than We acknowledge that realising our Stay Safe Vision 2,000 managers.
The team also analyse all entries in our consistently across all divisions will not be easy and will online injury reporting system, identifying statistical demand leadership, consistency of focus and attention trends that help our divisions pinpoint and tackle key to detail to instil the required behaviours, culture and safety issues.
51 REPORTS HEAL TH AND SAFETY REPOR T Innovations in Stay Safe during the year In 2013 we will: Stay Safe We have introduced a number of Stay Safe innovations Continue our drive to win the hearts and minds of is not about in 2012: colleagues, managers and business leaders in support numbers, its Our group transport team has introduced a number of of our Stay Safe agenda: initiatives to improve HGV vehicle safety including: Recognise safe behaviour wherever and whenever it always about The introduction of bag nipping vehicle grabs on our occurs: people delivery lorries which removes the need to work at Simplify and improve our systems and procedures height: and make clear the outcomes of non compliance.
The trialling of CCTV in lorry cabs which we believe We are embarking on further research that will will have a positive impact on driver behaviour: explore the links between our colleague engagement The trialling of proximity sensors on vehicles to help survey data, safety metrics and business performance detect cyclists and more visible yellow lorry wing measures.
We hope the findings will increase the focus mirrors: of our business leaders and managers on the additional Our Full Stop initiative wher e all Supply Chain sites changes we need to adopt to deliver the improvements stopped work for an hour at 3 a. m. and 3 p. m. on the and consistency in safety performance we seek.
same day in August whilst members of the senior team walked around the site, discussing hazards: Culture change and local empowerment approach Our Consumer division has intr oduced incident simulations to learn what can be done to prevent Expert Safety Safety certain types of incidents: review culture culture change change Branch managers Organisation are being issued cultural Organisation Divisional with a Stay Safe focus focus Predictors systems systems, wall planner aimed of accidents values, at reminding them Embedding beliefs, style of the key practical safe behaviour and staff by aligning things they should systems Specific be doing to maintain to support change a safe branch.
change management journey at a journeys Supplier safety initiative local level using cultural During the summer of 2012 we held our annual grouppredictors at a suppliers conference.
This year it focused on our Stay local level Safe strategy in order to engage our suppliers in playing a proactive and collaborative role in our safety programmes.
By making safety We need to keep focusing on those areas which show integral to our commercial relationship, a strong link between organisational culture and injury our message to suppliers is that Safe rates and where possible action further improvements.
Suppliers are the Best Suppliers.
A simple With those in place, the resulting changes in behaviour but effective leaflet has also been produced and culture will mean that our employees and for issue to all suppliers to help them make customers go home safely at the end of every day.
safe deliveries to our premises.
The business impact we are seeking will: I ncrease employee engagement, morale and Looking ahead to 2013 performance, and not only in those areas linked to We are encouraged that in 2012, 87% of our branches safety: were free from any reported lost time injuries.
In 2013 Increase our safety performance and enhance our we will encourage and recognise all such branches by reputation as a safe place to work, to buy from and to creating a new Stay Safe high standard performance supply: measure, namely that of the safe branch.
Reduce our long-term-injuries so we have fewer lost To be identified as a safe branch at the end of the working days, which will improve customer service.
year, that location has to satisfy three key criteria: No lost time injuries have been reported: Near miss incidents are being reported using our on-line reporting system: The Groups audit team has given its region a green i. e. good audit score specifically for its safety Andrew Simon Toolstation performance.
Chairman, Plc Board Health & Safety Committee Northampton 52 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 53 REPORTS
