CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY A new EHS Board sub-Committee, chaired by Anne Drinkwater, is being formed to ensure adequate time is devoted to 2012 HIGHLIGHTS managing personal and process safety, occupational health 22 27 performance in EHS scorecard: and the environment.
64% reduction in number of uncontrolled releases: and The development and implementation of an action tracking 79% reduction in number of malaria cases.
system involved the roll-out of a comprehensive incident investigation process and closure of the associated corrective actions.
This has been a positive driver in ensuring the business In May 2012, we launched Tullows EHS vision, to build a culture learns from potentially serious incidents.
We established safety based on confident interventions, where people proactively think cases for all operated production facilities.
Jubilees safety case about the EHS risks they are responsible for.
This vision will also be reviewed later in the year with a view towards positively influenced behaviours throughout 2012 and helped continuous improvement.
us to manage EHS in a responsive and tailored way.
Our goal remains to keep our employees, contractors and those affected A new contractor management standard is in place, EHS Terms by our operations safe: to minimise our environmental footprint: & Conditions have been revised for high, medium and low risk and to achieve top quartile industry performance.
contracts and will be supplemented with additional terms for drilling and seismic surveys.
There has been increased EHS Managing our performance participation in contractor and contract evaluation, especially In 2012, we introduced a new scorecard tracking nine priority medium and high risk contracts.
All of our business units have EHS corporate KPIs across the business.
Three lagging self-assessed their operations against the Tullow Oil indicators demonstrate our performance against quantitative Environmental Standards Toes and the findings from this targets, and six leading indicators focus on key activities that process will determine the key focus areas for improvement in will deliver an improved performance in targeted areas.
Through the introduction of framework agreements with standard safety measures such as Lost Time Injuries continue preferred providers of our ESIAs, the standards of these and the to be tracked and will be disclosed in the Corporate resulting social management plans have improved considerably.
Responsibility Report, published in May.
The new scorecard Our operational managers proactively demonstrated EHS is intended to provide a more comprehensive evaluation of leadership throughout the year.
Going forwards we will ensure our EHS performance and outlines proactive commitments all managers, regardless of the severity of the EHS risks their to be achieved throughout the year.
part of the business is exposed to, proactively demonstrate leadership in their day-to-day roles.
OPERATING IN In October 2012, we announced Mitigation measures resulting SENSITIVE AREAS a new venture with a 40% from the EIA included placing non-operated equity position experienced marine mammal in Block 9 Tooq licence in observers MMOs on all North-West Greenland.
Given vessels and ensuring the heightened awareness of operational control procedures environmental issues in this adhered to industry best region, we proactively briefed practice.
We are working key stakeholders, including with our partners on plans the World Wildlife Fund and to address prevention, Socially Responsible Investors, contingency and response to address any concerns in capabilities and as part of person.
In 2012, a 3D seismic our licence terms we will be and hydrographic survey was contributing $1 million to a conducted.
Prior to the survey, Strategic EIA.
Maersk and an EIA was carried out by an Tullow are collaborating with internationally recognised other operators in the area environmental consultancy, and the Greenland Oil Industry evaluating the potential Association in order to reduce impacts associated with the cumulative impacts.
78 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 While we narrowly missed our target for uncontrolled releases Nine key performance indicators oil and chemical spills which could impact the environment, 2012 we nevertheless achieved a significant decrease in spills, with Leading indicator Result five spills in 2012, against a target of three, compared with 1.
Develop and implement an action tracking system 14 in 2011.
38.86 tonnes of materials were spilled in 2012, to report and track incidents and investigations.
The roll-out of our Drilling Fluids and Cuttings Disposal Standard helped deliver 2.
Establish safety cases for all operated more consistent practices across our operations.
drafted an Oil Spill Preparedness and Response Standard.
Our oil spill contingency plans have been reviewed against 3.
Ensure all medium and high risk contracts have this draft standard and actions are being implemented.
defined and implemented an effective EHS process.
The standard will be finalised and approved in early 2013.
Monitor performance of and compliance with the Malaria is one of the key risks our employees and contractors new toes.
face when working in African host countries, and in 2012 we 5.
Ensure all ESIAs have implemented an included malaria frequency rate per 1,000 exposures in our Environmental and Social Management Plan.
As a result of the policies and programmes undertaken to mitigate this risk in 2012, we have met our KPI 6.
Drive more visible EHS leadership.
with an average of 0.07 instances of malaria per 1,000 exposures over the 12-month period, representing a 79% reduction.
Lagging indicator We regret to report that two members of the public were killed 7.
Uncontrolled releases in road traffic accidents involving Tullow contractors in 2012.
This Number of loss of containment incidents [water, led to strong Executive attention, with a robust Road Transport diesel, oil, chemicals] 50 litres with 3 incidents.
Safety programme rolled out across Ghana, Kenya and Uganda.
Malaria case frequency rate Our contractors receive the same road safety training as our Reduce case incidents 10% year-on-year per 1,000 employees, including a requirement to acquire a Tullow licence.
The base line is 2011 which had an MAFR of 0.34.
Outside of our nine EHS corporate KPIs we manage a number of additional environmental indicators, including CO emissions, 2 9.
Level 4 and 5 incidents water usage and waste management.
In 2012, we achieved a Closeout 100% of investigation actions for every 62% decrease in CO emissions, largely as a result of decreased 2 incident to ensure maximum learning from the most flaring on the Jubilee field FPSO where we injected over 80% serious category of incidents.
of the gas produced back into the field.
Our toes, requires each project to develop a flaring strategy for normal steady-state Meeting target production with a goal to eliminate flaring on a group wide basis.
Within 10% of target or on track for delivery Without a steady state production profile and with a dynamic Failing to meet target portfolio of assets, setting a meaningful Group-wide emissions ns baseline and relating targets remains a challenge.
However, as part of toes, individual projects will be setting emissions reduction targets in 2013.
com cr In April 2012 Tullow invited representatives from investment funds, NGOs, civil society and academia to meet our EHS, operational and technical staff f ff fo or r Tullows first environment-focused Multi-stakeholder forum.
The discussion on ranged from Tullows vision, to communicating Tullows role in the broader r context of oil and gas development.
A report on some of the actions and responses to the key issues can be found on tullowoil.
