CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE TULLOW GROUP 2012 HIGHLIGHTS SCHOLARSHIP Discretionary social investment spend increased 72% SCHEME to $19.9 million 2011: $11.6 million : and 90 Tullow Group Scholarships allocated in seven African countries.
The scheme awarded over The scheme aims to build At Tullow, a fundamental value is respecting the local 90 scholarships to students capacity in our host countries communities and people impacted by our business.
Proper from Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, and increase the pool of management of the social impacts of our operations is critical Mauritania, Cote dIvire, potential local employees, to the growth and sustainability of our business.
Social impacts Gabon and Ethiopia.
Students enabling more people to that are not well-managed can be damaging for communities.
began their studies in participate in the industry The associated risks for our business include loss of social September 2012 in courses and related sectors.
It also licence to operate, cost inflation and schedule drift.
Managing ranging from Exploration aims to increase knowledge our impacts consistently well will help us to ensure we mitigate Geophysics and Law to Supply and skills at government level, these risks and ensure that our projects run on time and on Chain Management and leading to more effective Hospitality & Tourism at top working relationships.
budget, and that we build a positive reputation that can universities in the UK, France strengthen access to growth opportunities.
Inevitably there are social change implications, positive and negative, at each stage of the oil life-cycle, from exploration through to decommissioning.
Our social performance is made Highlights for our social investment included a 72% increase up of three component parts: see the table below.
in discretionary social investment spend to $19.9 million 2011: $11.6 million.
The increase is due to the substantial investment Milestones achieved in our social impact management include we have made in rolling out our flagship Social Investment improving the rigor of the social impact assessment element initiative, the Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme.
More countries of our ESIAs: establishing dedicated social performance are now part of the scheme, and it demonstrates our continued departments in our onshore operations: conducting a macro commitment to build capacity where we operate.
socio-economic review of Tullows social performance in Ghana, and completing a social baseline survey in preparation for the Going forward, our criteria for social investment will be more Lake Albert Development Project in Uganda.
Tullows Social tightly defined as we look to create clearer linkages to business Performance Standard will be in place by the end of 2013. objectives and risk management as well as ensuring host countries and neighbouring communities have access to as much economic benefit as can be enabled through Tullow activity.
How we manage our social performance Social performance What we do and why How we do it Community stakeholder Transparency and meaningful Grass roots community engagement via Community engagement dialogue and consultation to Liaison Officers who are from and speak the languages understand community issues.
Social impact Identify and manage the impacts of Socio-economic impact assessment and management.
management our projects, enabling us to deliver Macro socio-economic baseline.
our projects on the ground effectively.
Social investment Invest in projects that build host Supporting local content.
country and community alignment, Promoting local employment.
and ultimately help strengthen our Building capacity of institutions and communities.
com 83 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 WORKING IN OUR CORPORATE FUNCTIONS Tullow Team Our corporate functions provide monitoring our Code of Business 1.
Amoi NGattia vital support to our business units Conduct, setting Group-wide EHS 2.
Caroline Sloan and make the day-to-day running and security standards, providing 3.
Peter Kamandah of Tullow possible.
They touch oversight of risk management as 4.
Vivian Nakabugo every part of our activities from well as operational and financial 5.
Shahima Nordien negotiating the best deal on hiring reporting.
Praveen Singh a rig, setting up wireless networks work in corporate functions and 7.
Jeanell Kelly in remote locations to assessing come from a variety of industry 8.
Arnold Mahero the commercial feasibility of a backgrounds, bringing expertise, 9.
The teams are also critical ideas and experience that can 10.
Josephine Adu-Bediako to the governance of the business be shared and applied across 12.
Esther Kansere in terms of implementing and the Group.
4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 86 Chairmans introduction The Board is in place to provide strong leadership and endorsement of our entrepreneurial spirit, while achieving high standards of governance and effective risk management.
90 Board of Directors Tullow has a diverse Board of Executive and non-executive Directors with a broad range of skills and experience.
93 Audit Committee report The Board Audit Committee has a vital role in assuring our financial statements provide a true and fair view of the Groups financial affairs and that internal business controls are effective.
96 Nominations Committee report The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure there is an appropriate balance of skills and expertise for effective management.
98 Directors' remuneration report We overhauled and simplified our remuneration policy after consultation with a number of major shareholders.
The proposed policy will be implemented from 2013 onwards.
115 Corporate Governance 122 Other statutory information
