CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In Kenya and Ethiopia our teams have grown to support the accelerated exploration programme, with Community Liaison 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Officers working to ensure local stakeholders are consulted and 241 stakeholders interviewed in Ghana macro listened to, and that we are capturing and developing a plan to socio-economic study: and address any concerns raised during this phase of operations.
Broad and thorough consultations held on TEN Project, In Uganda, the proximity of our onshore operations to local in Ghana.
communities presented social and environmental challenges.
Specifically, we managed grievances relating to crops and Stakeholder engagement is fundamental to our success as a land impacted during seismic surveying.
It is key to our management of above-ground risks and have developed the Tullow compensation guidelines to shapes how we contribute to creating shared prosperity with our provide a more structured and proactive approach to supporting host countries.
We engage with a diverse set of stakeholders communities affected by our activities.
We are also developing who include employees, shareholders, governments, regulators, a comprehensive grievance management mechanism in line policy makers, communities, NGOs and Civil Society with international best practice.
Organisations, the diaspora, international and local businesses, academics and the media.
GHANA MACRO Reviewing our material issues SOCIO-ECONOMIC In 2012, we undertook a materiality review, bringing together STUDY the inputs from our key stakeholder engagement activities throughout the year, as well as reviewing Tullows own policies, Code of Conduct and risk register.
The key material issues identified through this process included EHS performance and management, bribery & corruption, local content, localisation, political risk, stakeholder engagement and transparency of payments to government.
Throughout the year we took a proactive approach to stakeholder management in major new and existing projects.
In Ghana, Tullow submitted the PoD for the TEN Project in November 2012.
An essential part of this process has been the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESIA, which included over 50 stakeholder group engagements in 22 communities in Ghanas Western Region.
Some of the issues raised by local stakeholders included discharges, air and water quality, waste management, oil spills and impact on the livelihoods of fishing communities.
Also in Ghana, we have been active in addressing community In 2012 we commissioned an The purpose of the study was concerns relating to the Jubilee field and the oil industrys independent study into the to review the impact that impacts of Tullows operations Tullow-led activities have had presence in general.
We compile an annual grievance report, in Ghana during the seven to date on the economy and recording issues raised by local stakeholders and how these years we have had a presence society of Ghana, and to set have been resolved.
Issues raised this year have included the in the country.
This is the most these in the broader context fair allocation of social investment and transparency around comprehensive study the Group of the roles and responsibilities how these are divided locally and nationally.
has undertaken to date, and it of companies and governments.
comprised interviews with over The outputs from the study will 200 stakeholders ranging from be discussed in a Multilocal communities and Stakeholder Forum MSF to be non-governmental held in Ghana in May 2013.
The organisations, to politicians, findings and recommendations contractors and staff.
will be discussed and agreed at the MSF.
