CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE CREATING 2012 HIGHLIGHTS EMPLOYMENT 15% increase in total workforce OPPORTUNITIES employees and contractors : FOR NATIONALS 2.9% staff turnover rate: and 80% of local nationals employed.
We aim to create employment industry.
This year, in delivering Our unique culture and our ability to attract and retain highly opportunities for local people.
our Localisation strategy, we competent people from different cultural backgrounds continues This helps ensure the Tullow increased the number of to be among our core strengths and competitive advantages.
team reflects the diversity of Ugandans working in Uganda Our total workforce increased by 15% from 1,548 in 2011 to 1,778 the local communities we from 84% to 88%, and the in 2012 as we continue to build the disciplines and skill sets to operate in and ensures our number of Ghanaians working manage our growing portfolio of assets and increased scale of host countries share the in Ghana from 85% to 86%.
In 2012, we published a new Board diversity policy prosperity of the oil and gas statement.
We continue to regard the development of a diverse, high-calibre pipeline of senior executives, with board potential, as our highest human resource priority.
We employ 57 different life-cycle, including our recruitment, induction and global nationalities and 29% of our employee population are women.
performance management processes, have helped ensure Leadership Forum our values are meaningful to all our people.
In early 2012, our first Leadership Forum was attended by Rewarding and developing our people 80 leaders from across Tullow to discuss our strategy and Tullows reward philosophy is to be fair, transparent and collective leadership dilemmas and opportunities.
The five consistent, allowing for some flexibility when required.
During themes identified in the leadership forum are addressed in the 2012, weve taken strategic steps to make sure we continue sections below.
These, in combination with the Board objectives, to attract, retain and recognise strong candidates for Tullow.
have provided a framework for identifying and addressing our Strategic steps have been taken to ensure we enhance our people challenges.
understanding of the multiple employment markets in which Ensuring our values are embedded we operate.
Benefit surveys have been undertaken in Ghana, Our culture remains core to Tullows vision, and has been Kenya and Uganda, with additional local benefits being recognised as essential to Tullows continued success.
Our implemented to ensure Tullows offering reflects the culture sets us apart and in 2012 Tullow was recognised as one current local market trends.
of Britains Most Admired Companies by Management Today, Supporting growth through structure and frameworks and voted No.
1 for both innovation and our ability to attract, Understanding the strengths of Tullow as an organisation, the retain and develop top talent.
Our values connect our people aspirations of our people and the planning required to support globally and define the way we do things.
Several initiatives, growth is essential to our future success.
Our 2012 Talent such as further embedding our values through the employee Strategy review aligned business and talent management priorities and helped us understand how we can support our leaders and their teams.
A number of initiatives have been Local nationals employed % introduced across the business to support the growing needs of our people and to improve our understanding of our talent Uganda across the business, such as Personal Development Plans 92 Kenya 88 86 86 85 and Competency Frameworks.
84 Ghana Improving processes and systems 2012 marked the launch of TullowPeople, the new HR system, that will improve the way we recruit, manage and develop our people and their skills, aspirations and performance in line with the business needs.
Working together: through leadership development 11 12 11 12 11 12 We continued to develop and connect our leaders through our development programme with Ashridge Business School.
Over 140 leaders have attended to date.
80 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
