CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN CLOSING 2012 HIGHLIGHTS THE GAP Successful transport logistics in Ethiopia in challenging terrain.
Supply chain management SCM has developed during the year to address the increased scale and complexity of Tullows operations.
We have further integrated the three key components of supply chain management: contracts and procurement: logistics and materials: and local content.
This has enabled us to maximise value from our contracts, increase operational efficiencies and gain greater foresight into our operational planning.
This in turn helps us to better manage and mitigate both technical and non-technical risks, which include environmental, social, health, security, bribery & corruption, political, commercial, legal and reputational risks.
SCMs operational involvement from the start of projects means we have visibility from initial demand through to delivery in the field.
Raising standards through supplier management EHS specialists are now embedded within supply chain at a corporate and country level.
This helps us ensure contracts Where we transition from E&A standards through regular are properly designed to meet our EHS commitments and to development there may be workshops.
We also provide enables us to support pre-and-post contract award activities.
an overview of the impact Our local content teams in the field pre-qualify international During this phase of reduced of Bribery and Corruption and local suppliers to make sure they meet our standards activity, we work with local worldwide, Anti-Corruption and help them get to the required level where necessary.
suppliers to raise standards, legislation, including the Tullows contract criteria focuses on EHS standards, technical investing in local companies UK Bribery Act, and an requirements, local content opportunity, ethics and compliance to be ready for the next stage introduction to Tullows Code of growth in their country.
This of Business Conduct, detailing and commercial terms.
specific elements of the Code is part of our Closing the Gap Integrated planning such as gifts and hospitality programme where we advise and facilitation payments.
Through an integrated planning approach across all elements on a range of business activities, such as quality of supply chain management, we have achieved a number of management and EHS operational successes in Ethiopia and Kenya this year.
In Kenya, the safe delivery of equipment and personnel to the rig sites was managed despite difficult physical conditions, which presented significant logistical challenges.
In Ethiopia, the well site and access road was built by a local construction firm and was ready for use in less than six months from contract award.
Logistics presents the greatest opportunities for local suppliers to work with Tullow.
Through continued closer planning and working relationships between the local content and logistics and materials components of the supply chain, we intend to create more of these successes in 2013.
We have laid the foundations for supply chain operations in preparation for development and exploration in Mauritania in 2013.
We have begun planning ahead of schedule in order to be ready for drilling operations in 2013 and 2014 in Guinea, Cote dIvoire and Gabon.
In the year ahead, we will focus on stronger risk management and creating operational efficiencies and contract value through further integration, focused planning and efficient management.
