Corporate responsibility Responsible mining We progressed our environmental compliance programme throughout the Responsible mining means conducting our year, primarily as a result of continued progress in the implementation of Group environmental management systems, enhancements made to the business in a way that reflects our commitment processes and procedures used to monitor environmental impacts at our to excellence, to the benefit of all stakeholders operations and further improvements made to permitting processes.
There are no new material adverse developments in the context of business governance and ethics for 2012.
The majority of reports submitted in connection with our Business Ethics incident reporting procedures during Overview of 2012 activities the year related to employee matters at our operations.
None of the reports Responsible mining has remained a key objective for our business in 2012. submitted are expected to have a significant effect on ABG.
In this regard, we have made a number of developments within our sustainability programme, resulting in the achievement of a positive level Core health and safety activities for the year focused on the continual of overall performance across this programme.
The material components progression of improvements in our Group total reportable injury of our sustainability programme for 2012 remained the same as those frequency rate, which at 0.83 for the year is a 30% improvement on 2011, identified in 2011, these being: Community Relations, Employees, further implementation of critical risk standards, ABG health standards Environment, Governance and Ethics, Health and Safety and Security and key health and safety governance initiatives, namely our Visible Felt andHuman Rights.
Leadership and Courageous Leadership training programmes.
However, despite progress made in these areas, regretfully we suffered two fatalities In the context of community relations, efforts for the year focused on the during the year.
progression of community stakeholder engagement procedures, further implementation of ABG social incident reporting procedures, the We continued to progress enhancements to our security function and continued implementation of the North Mara Co-Existence Plan, the compliance with our human rights commitments throughout the year.
development of social management plans to support our operations and Key achievements include the further enhancements of security further enhancements to our community relations management system.
infrastructure across our operations and increased participation in safety, security and human rights training programmes, involving We have made a number of positive developments throughout the year participants from the ABG security function, the Tanzanian police force inour employee recruitment, retention, training and development and local communities.
We have also been successful in the progression of employee localisation targets, whilst making improvements in ABG Group turnover Further details on 2012 performance and 2013 targets for each material rates overall.
component of our sustainability programme are provided below.
Our material areas Community Relations Health & Safety r Stakeholder Engagement r Operational Health & Safety r Social Impacts r Emergency Preparedness r Community Development r Community Wellbeing GOVERNANCE COMMUNITY r Resettlement r Incident Reporting & ETHICS RELATIONS Employees Security & Human Rights r Labour Practices r Stakeholder Engagement SECURITY r Local Employment r Training & Development & RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYEES HUMAN MINING r Employment Development r Emergency Preparedness RIGHTS r Talent Retention r Incident Reporting Environment Governance & Ethics HEALTH r Conservation and Protection r Business Ethics ENVIRONMENT & SAFETY r Biodiversity r Code of Conduct r Climate Change r Corporate Governance r Management of HazardousMaterials 42 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ABGs economic contribution We contribute to the economic growth of our host communities, regions and countries in a number of ways to assist the progression of sustainable socio-economic development.
ABGs total direct economic contribution was US$1,073 million in 2012 US$1,063 million in 2011.
DIRECT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 2011 Direct economic contribution % 2012 Direct economic contribution is made up of the economic value we add by 100 paying our employees, governments, suppliers, shareholders, contractors 80 and communities.
However, our true economic contribution is far greater 60 once the greater effects of our presence is considered.
These include the indirect effects of people spending their wages, governments distributing 40 tax and royalty revenues, and neighbouring communities using the 20 infrastructure developed for our operations.
0 -20 -40 Of this, our net taxation contribution was US$159 million US$144 million in 2011.
2011 NET TAX CONTRIBUTION 2012 NET TAX CONTRIBUTION Taxation contribution US$m US$m The table below shows the total of all tax payments for each of the main countries where we have operations or projects.
The distribution of taxes paid by the Group reflects the geographical spread of our business.
The majority of our taxes are paid in Tanzania, this being the location of our operating mines, followed by South Africa.
Although ABGs headquarters are in London, only a small proportion of our operations are located in $144 $159 theUK.
A large proportion of our administrative, finance and technical support functions are located in South Africa.
Please refer to the government relations discussion provided as part of the Chief Executive Officers statement for information regarding developments affecting royalty payments during the year.
Corporate income tax 39 Corporate income tax 0 Net Royalty government 33 Royalty government 40 Taxes Taxes payments to Indirect taxes VAT and fuel levies 15 Indirect taxes VAT and fuel levies 17 US$000 Taxes borne collected Subtotal refunded governments Payroll taxes inc. social security 72 Payroll taxes inc. social security 75 Other taxes inc. WHT, stamp duties, Other taxes inc. WHT, stamp duties, Tanzania 99,658 54,991 154,649 4,500 150,149 environmental levies 15 environmental levies 27 South Africa 1,541 5,712 7,253 1,146 6,107 Other 1,656 2,381 4,037 868 3,169 Total 102,85563,084165,939 6,514 159,425 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Interest and non-controlling shareholders Dividends Taxes and government royalties Employees net of tax Available for reinvestment Suppliers, contractors and communities Corporate responsibility continued Progress made under the ABG Maendeleo Fund Since its inception in 2011, the ABG Maendeleo Fund has approved We established the ABG Maendeleo Fund in 2011 as part of funding for projects amounting to approximately US$7.4 million.
Of this our commitment to promoting sustainable development in amount, US$3.6 million was invested in projects during 2012.
ABG aims to commit US$10 million per year to US$1.4 million for projects supporting North Mara local communities, the fund, making it the largest community development fund US$0.5 million for projects supporting Buzwagi local communities, of its kind in Tanzania.
We use the fund to support all of our US$0.1 million in projects that support Bulyanhulu local communities community investment programmes.
Funding priority is andUS$0.3 million for projects supporting communities in the vicinity given to investments that support community development ofTulawaka.
We also invested US$1.3 million in projects sponsored at and capacity building, access to health, education and water acorporate level.
The majority of commitments relate to projects that and environment projects within communities surrounding support community development and access to healthcare and education.
In addition to local initiatives, during the year we commenced sponsorship of a regional programme to fund the provision of additional school desks and other equipment to schools.
The project entitled A desk for every child, aims at increasing school capacities to ultimately increase opportunities for access to education in ABG local communities.
Ultimately, we aim to contribute 5,000 new school desks to this project.
Go online to find all the projects www.
com Education Healthcare Community development Supporting projects that increase access to We support access to healthcare through We support community economic development education is a primary objective of the ABG investment in a wide range of projects, including through training and employment initiatives Maendeleo Fund.
Our core projects focus on projects that build and strengthen local healthcare and local trading arrangements.
We use local increasing educational infrastructure, through infrastructure, projects that increase healthcare suppliers and businesses wherever possible the building and renovation of schools, capacities through training and development, the forour operations, and support training providing core supplies, such as books and sponsorship of international surgical missions programmes that aim to enhance skill sets equipment, and providing scholarships and and by supporting a range of initiatives aimed within communities.
training opportunities for students and athelping to combat core infectious diseases, members of the teaching profession.
namely malaria, HIV AIDs, and tuberculosis.
Key projects Amount invested Key projects Amount invested Key projects Amount invested supported in 2012 in 2012 supported in 2012 in 2012 supported in 2012 in 2012 10 US$0.6million 16 US$1.5million 11 US$1.5million 44 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Progress in 2012 Community relations TOTAL COMMUNITY INVESTMENT r Execution of Village Benefit Agreements and The development of social management plans, which will US$m Village Benefit Implementation Agreements actas the principal tool for the management of social with local communities at North Mara performance across all ABG operations going forward, was acore focus for 2012.
During the year we agreed the form of r Development of social management plans social management plan for use at North Mara and Buzwagi, for Buzwagi and North Mara both of which will be implemented in 2013.
The social r Development of social and security management plan for Bulyanhulu will be developed in 2013. risk assessments Relevant components of a social management plan for 10 11 12 US$14.4 Tulawaka will be included in the closure plan for this mine, Bulyanhulu US$1.2 Priorities for 2013 given the current status of its mine life.
Buzwagi US$1.2 r Implementation of social management plans North Mara US$7.3 Tulawaka US$1.3 at Buzwagi and North Mara We continued to progress objectives under the North Mara Corporate US$3.4 Co-Existence Plan throughout the year.
The execution of r Development of a social management plan Village Benefit Agreements and Village Benefit Implementation for Bulyanhulu BREAKDOWN OF NEW Agreements with all seven villages surrounding the mine GRIEVANCES LODGED r Further progression of social incident total number during the first half of the year represented a significant step reporting, grievance and risk identification in the agreement and identification of key social legacy issues with these communities.
The initial investment under these agreements was estimated at US$8.5 million over the first three years, and we estimate that it could take a further three years to fully implement them, with a similar financial commitment over the second three-year period.
The form of investment in each of the villages differs, but includes the 10 11 12 443 development of school infrastructure, improvements in Bulyanhulu 21 access to water supply, the upgrading of the Sungu-Sungu Buzwagi 23 North Mara 396 Clinic, so that it may qualify for ongoing government hospital Tulawaka 3 funding, rehabilitation of village offices, and improvements to road and electricity supply infrastructure.
In addition to this, we have also committed approximately 51% of ABGs total community investment for 2012 to projects in North Maras surrounding areas.
The remaining components of the North Mara Co-Existence Plan have been combined with the North Mara social management plan and will be taken forward as part of this plan.
Group-wide community investments in 2012 amounted to approximately US$14.4 million, almost a 95% increase on 2011.
Approved community investment projects principally focus on access to education, healthcare, water and the development of local infrastructure.
We continued our support for CanEducate in 2012, which raised total funds of approximately CAD$127,000.
These funds will be used to support approximately 1,461 students in local communities around Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi and, following extension of the programme during the year, North Mara, as well as an orphanage in Dar es Salaam.
Case study: ABG social management plans As part of our plans to enhance our social incident reporting Social management plans, or SMPs as they are commonly referred to, are practices, we developed new procedures for social and sitespecific framework plans that identify execution strategies for all social security risk assessments during the year.
These procedures commitments identified and agreed for implementation as part of ABGs will be used to help to identify potential incidents, which community investment and development commitments.
The formulation of pose significant social and security risks to our operating SMPs seeks to ensure that social obligations assumed by each ABG operation environment.
Procedures are now at implementation stage are identified and agreed in a transparent manner to appropriately balance and we aim to complete this across all operations by the commitments and the requirements of our operating environment.
SMPs are endof 2013. developed by each site in collaboration with a wide range of stakeholders, including local communities and government departments, in order to ensure A total of 443 new grievances were lodged under the ABG that plans are objectively formulated.
Once agreed, SMP implementation community grievance management and resolution procedure ismonitored against specified key performance indicators and project in 2012.
The majority of new grievances continue to relate to implementation timetables.
Compliance with SMPs is also evaluated as historic land compensation matters at North Mara.
part of a social monitoring process conducted by government bodies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Corporate responsibility continued Employees UNION MEMBERSHIP percentage of national Turnover rates for our operations stabilised in 2012 at 14%, workforce an improvement of 3% on 2011 turnover levels, and a notable achievement given the continued competition for qualified personnel across the mining industry generally.
During the latter half of the year we experienced a spike in resignations, notably at Bulyanhulu, as a result of potential changes to Tanzanian pension legislation.
We will continue to monitor developments in this area in 2013.
We have continued to 10 11 12 41% progress our commitment to the localisation of our Bulyanhulu 46% workforce, with national employment levels amounting to Buzwagi 31% North Mara 34% 91% of our operations workforce in 2012, a 2% improvement Tulawaka 54% on 2011.
We have further progressed training and development programmes throughout the year, increasing front line LOCALISATION OF supervisor participation in our Supervisory Development WORKFORCE percentage of national Programme and high potential individuals participation in workforce our Management Development Programme.
Overall, 59% of Group employees participated in technical training courses during the year, compared to 56% in 2011.
We employed 30 graduates from the Integrated Mining Case study: Technical Training IMTT programme in 2012, this being Supporting professional development a vocational training programme developed by ABG in 10 11 12 91% ABG operates a professional development conjunction with other stakeholders within the Tanzanian Bulyanhulu 94% education programme which provides Buzwagi 91% commercial mining industry, in order to support and North Mara 86% sponsorship to individuals for professional progress technical training for the mining sector.
Richard Ojendo, Construction Manager currently sponsors 126 participants in the IMTT programme at Buzwagi Mine, participated in this and reviews employment opportunities for programme programme, receiving sponsorship for an MSc graduates each year.
in Construction Project Management from GROUP WIDE TURNOVER Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
He The industrial relations climate has been stable across our percentage within graduated with a masters degree in November operations and we ended 2012 without any new material operations 2012.
The masters programme focused on industrial relations actions being commenced at any of our international best practice as regards the operations.
Overall approximately 41% of our national management of construction projects, helping employees held union membership at year end, compared to Richard to further develop his knowledge and 48% in 2011.
We continue to foster good relationships with skills in this area, skills that will now be the Tanzanian Mining and Construction Workers Union employed in the performance of his TAMICO at all of our operations and we are further 10 11 12 14% responsibilities at ABG.
progressing employee consultation initiatives as part of our Bulyanhulu 12% employee communications practices.
Buzwagi 15% North Mara 13% Tulawaka 24% Progress in 2012 r The establishment of the ABG Talent Council to review succession planning and employee development requirements r Progression of ABG capacity building initiatives to support employee localisation targets, particularly at senior level r Improved employee consultation practices, including the establishment of workplace communication forums Priorities for 2013 r Achieving a localisation target of 93% across our operations r Stabilising turnover of high potential individuals at 5% across our operations r Making further enhancements to employee and industrial relations engagement processes 46 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Progress in 2012 Environment r Obtaining Bulyanhulus recertification under the International Cyanide We continued to enhance the ABG Groups environmental Management Code and permitting management systems throughout the year in order to improve alignment with operational objectives.
r Improving water usage efficiencies by 3% r Completion of closure plan for Tulawaka GHG emissions for the year equalled 359,458 metric tonnes of which 71,010 metric tonnes represented indirect emissions Priorities for 2013 and 288,448 metric tonnes represented direct emissions.
r Obtaining initial certification of Buzwagi under the International Cyanide Overall, this is a 24% increase on GHG emissions from 2011.
Management Code The increase is primarily due to increased self generation of power at each of our sites, notably at Buzwagi, and increases r Completing the commissioning of the North Mara Water Treatment Plant in the size of mobile fleet across our operations.
We continue for the lifting of the EPO and obtaining a discharge permit for the site to review feasible options to improve GHG emission levels in r Completing the implementation of all non-mining waste management plans.
the context of the reliability of grid power supply.
In addition, we are in the process of reviewing appropriate targets in the context of the new mandatory GHG emission reporting requirements that will be introduced in 2013 for UK listed companies and will provide an update on this in due course.
Our ability to progress efficiencies in energy use and conservation initiatives continues to be impacted by ongoing ENERGY USED PER TONNE OF ORE interruptions to electricity supply in Tanzania.
In 2012 we PROCESSED used 592 megajoules of energy per tonne of ore processed, Megajoules a17% increase on 2011 levels.
Our energy profile for the year comprised 82% diesel use, 17% electricity use, with our use of explosives, propane, petrol and other fuels remaining largely equivalent to 2011.
Key energy conservation projects implemented in 2012 included the installation of a plant efficiency programme at Bulyanhulu.
10 11 12 592 Bulyanhulu 797 In 2012 we used 7.4 million cubic metres of water across our Buzwagi 542 operations, of which 4.3 million cubic metres represents fresh North Mara 507 water.
Overall our use of fresh water remained in line with Tulawaka 1,412 2011 4.3 cubic meters in 2011.
In addition, we improved efficiencies in water use generally in 2012, using 550 litres of water per tonne of ore milled, a decrease of 3% on 2011 levels TOTAL WATER USED 568 litres of water per tonne milled.
in litres used per tonne of ore produced We continued to progress our hazardous materials management practices throughout the year with the development of non-mineral waste management plans for all of our operations.
These plans will advise sites on actions Case study: Environmental rehabilitation required in order to comply with Tanzanian legislation and The Gonzara area is a natural wetland area in satisfy good waste management practices.
In addition, the vicinity of the North Mara mine.
This area Bulyanhulu obtained full recertification under the 10 11 12 550 was adversely affected by soil contamination International Cyanide Management Code, in line with key Bulyanhulu 973 in2009 as a result of acid rock drainage and priorities set for the year.
We have also continued to progress Buzwagi 479 discharge from seepage containment ponds North Mara 459 Buzwagis initial certification under this code, in conjunction Tulawaka 896 which occurred after trespassers entered the with the ongoing commissioning of the Buzwagi detoxification mine premises, vandalised, and in some cases plant.
We now aim to complete this certification process in stole, the plastic pond liners designed to prevent the first half of2013.
ABG rectified this by excavating and replacing the contaminated soils, We are continuing to work with the relevant authorities to lime dosing the wetland area, installing progress the lifting of the Environmental Protection Order defensive trenches and sumps to cut off any EPO at North Mara in order to be able to discharge water.
further acid drainage or seepage and concluding NEMC, the Tanzanian environmental regulator, has recently a re-vegetation exercise of the affected areas.
The visited the operation for a final review and we are now results of this exercise were monitored from awaiting their approval.
2009 to 2012 and showed ongoing restoration ofvegetation, the return of native wildlife to thearea and, ultimately, the restoration of a functioning ecosystem.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Corporate responsibility continued Progress in 2012 Health and safety TOTAL REPORTABLE INJURY FREQUENCY r Achieving a 30% improvement in ABG We achieved an ABG Group-wide total reportable injury RATE GroupTRIFR frequency rate frequency rate TRIFR of 0.83 for 2012, a 30% improvement on 2011, far exceeding the 10% improvement target set for r Developing five critical risk standards to the year.
We will look to further progress this in 2013 and aim support mining processes and procedures to improve 2012 achievements by an additional 10%.
As part r Developing three health standards to combat of our review of health and safety metrics, we have decided to occupational illness in the workplace focus solely on TRIFR going forward, given that this captures r Creating a community health management all injuries in the workplace and thus a wider range of 10 11 12 0.83 planfor Buzwagi incidents than those captured by monitoring lost time injury Bulyanhulu 1.02 frequency rates alone.
Despite improvements made overall Buzwagi 0.57 North Mara 0.71 Priorities for 2013 inABG Group TRIFR, we regretfully suffered two fatalities Tulawaka 1.38 across our operations in 2012.
The first involved a contractor r Achieving a further 10% improvement in ABG Group TRIFR employee at Buzwagi who was involved in a vehicle related incident.
The second involved an ABG employee at Tulawaka r Completing the implementation of our existing who was involved in a mobile equipment accident.
Both of five critical risk standards and developing three these incidents have been investigated and the necessary new critical risk standards corrective action taken.
r Developing two new health standards to combat We continued to develop and implement critical risk occupational illness in the workplace standards throughout the year, focused on the promotion r Completing the creation of community health ofhealth and safety best practice across specific mining management plans for North Mara and Tulawaka processes and procedures.
For 2012 we developed five new critical risk standards in the following areas: Vehicles and Driving, Confined Space Entry, Hazardous Energy Isolation, Working at Heights, and Ground Control.
The Ground Control standard was fully implemented during the year.
In 2013 we will look to complete the implementation of the remaining standards and will look to develop additional standards for Contractor Safety Management, Cranes and Lifting, and Critical Infrastructure Maintenance.
We continued to develop ABG health standards throughout the year, which are designed to prevent industrial illness across our operations.
In 2012 we developed health standards for the treatment of silicosis, cyanide poisoning and anaphylaxis, all of which are currently under implementation.
In 2013 we will look to complete implementation of these standards and develop additional standards for the treatment of noise induced hearing loss and respiratory protection.
We also continued to progress community health impact assessments, which assess the potential impact of our operations on public health, throughout the year.
Ultimately, this process aims to create community health management plans for all of our operations.
In 2012 we completed consultation processes for the creation of a community health Case study: Visible Felt Leadership and Courageous Leadership management plan for Buzwagi and we are in the process of The Visible Felt Leadership and Courageous Leadership programmes are the finalising plans for North Mara and Tulawaka.
We will look primary training tools used throughout our organisation to promote health and to complete these processes in 2013.
Programme objectives focus on ways in which leaders within impact assessments for Bulyanhulu are scheduled to our organisation can improve interactions with employees in the workplace commence in 2014. inorder to promote and teach ABGs vision and values to help drive health andsafety performance.
In 2012 we set minimum targets for management interaction across the workforce in order to promote the standards set by these programmes, all of which were largely exceeded.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In 2013, we will continue to develop our security and safety training and Security and Human Rights systems.
In addition, we aim to progress wider stakeholder engagement on We made a number of enhancements to security and safety infrastructure the development of enhanced law and order frameworks for our operating across our operations during the year, further improving our operating environment, in particular with regional and national Tanzanian environment.
At North Mara we completed the installation of the safety authorities and law enforcement bodies.
wall at the Nyabirama pit and upgrades to gold plant security mechanisms and security personnel accommodation.
At Bulyanhulu we commenced Progress in 2012 security compliance reviews against our Gold Security Standard and r Completing enhancements to security systems across all completed the installation of new security premises for security personnel.
ABGoperations At Buzwagi we commenced the installation of additional surveillance equipment, something which will continue into 2013, and completed the r Increasing training on the Voluntary Principles on Security installation of crisis control centres.
We also installed additional andHumanRights across ABG stakeholders surveillance equipment at Tulawaka.
r Progressing implementation of our human rights complianceprogramme We continued to progress training as regards our security practices and expectations for individual performance of security related duties Priorities for 2013 throughout the year.
Overall we assisted with the training of approximately r Maintaining training levels on the Voluntary Principles on 6,367 individuals on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human SecurityandHuman Rights rights, 6,569 individuals on use of force practices, and 5,927 individuals on the detection and prevention of sexual harassment.
Participants in ABG r Progressing dialogue on law and order, particularly at North Mara, training programmes included members of the Tanzanian Policing Unit withour wider stakeholder group assigned to provide security to our operations, ABG security employees and contractors and community watchmen.
Case study: Working towards effective conflict management In 2011 we established a partnership with Search for Common Ground, From a governance perspective, we saw a noticeable improvement across aninternationally recognised NGO in the field of conflict resolution, to anumber of areas relevant to operational security risk assessments and help strengthen trust and improve collaboration between ABG operations audits, including compliance with our Gold Security Standards, the and local communities in the context of conflict management, particularly Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, use of force at North Mara.
The ultimate objective of our partnership is to find protocols, investigations and use of personal protective equipment.
culturally appropriate ways to constructively deal with conflicts in order to mitigate conflict escalation.
SFCG use a number of methods of community During the year we decided to report security related total reportable engagement in order to progress understanding of conflict resolutions.
In injury frequency rate as a subsection of overall total reportable injury addition to general community training programmes, SFCGs activities frequency rate, as part of increased focus on the monitoring of security include youth conflict training management sessions aimed at younger incidents impacting our operations.
For the year, the security related total members of communities, which focus on the dangers of illegal mining reportable injury frequency rate was 0.16.
In this regard, the majority of and mine site intrusions: and training sessions specifically for women, security incidents continue to occur at North Mara.
We experienced a focused on identifying pertinent issues such as harassment and other spike in illegal mining activity and related incidents of trespass during the unacceptable actions against women.
Other engagement tools include year, particularly at North Mara in the latter half of the year: however, this thecreation and distribution of educational materials, such as comics, to has now returned to normalisedlevels.
discuss topics including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human In the context of human rights, in addition to Voluntary Principles Rights, UN guidelines on use of force by law enforcement officials, universal human rights and sexual harassment.
SFCG also uses theatre training, we continued to progress the roll out of our human rights policy and compliance programme, notably with the further implementation productions in order to highlight conflict scenarios in context and ofreporting and investigations procedures for suspected human sporting activities, such as football tournaments involving players from rightsviolations.
local communities, the authorities and members of the ABG workforce, which aim to build relations and teamwork.
In conjunction with ABG training initiatives, Search for Common Ground SFCG continued to progress its human rights training and conflict resolution programme, building on progress made in 2011.
During the year, SFCG held 95 training sessions with communities surrounding ABG mine sites, involving 1,428 community members overall, in order to progress understanding of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
In addition to this, SFCG held 60 youth conflict management sessions, in which 1,868 community members participated, 55 sessions focused on conflict management as it affects women, in which 1,570 individuals participated, and 76 participatory theatre productions.
Anumber of football tournaments, aimed at relationship building across ABGs stakeholder base, were also held.
All of these initiatives aim to progress discussion, communication and understandings as regards the effect of conflict and conflict related issues within communities.
