Marketing services business model The business model Revenues are driven by: t Sponsorship of a website or publication t Number of advertisements and price of space in publications t Community website build and management fees t Virtual exhibitor or attendee revenue t Cost-per-thousand how many view an advert t Subscriptions to online or print publications t Cost-per-lead details of people who register Communities Product Geographies t High quality subscriber database t Development of high t Exposure to large US market within the targeted communities quality content t Growth opportunities by t Strong knowledge and t Ability to identify target innovating through new understanding of audiences and market effectively channels and into specic communities through variety of media new geographies both digital and print t Developing products that t Broad reach to generate uniquely address content needs t Satisfying clients needs and awareness and excites communities being able to demonstrate the effectiveness of the campaign t Strong engagement particularly online The attraction of the marketing Potential challenges services industry t Print overcapacity in the B2B marketplace during the transition to digital t Growth opportunities from innovating through new channels and into new geographies t Print lack of direct interaction with audience t Growth prospects driven by increased digital adoption t Speed of change within the digital environment t Print media are still preferred by certain industries t The inuence of analytics and enhanced transparency t Broad reach to generate awareness t Competitive environment t The multiplier effect of multimedia advertising campaigns t Print ability to adjust overheads at the same rate as print contraction t Growth prospects of targeted communities t The scalability of technology platforms t High quality subscriber databases particularly to controlled circulation print publications UBM value creation The Marketing services marketplace The marketplace The analysis produced by Outsell in 2012 provides a This data suggests that methods of accessing targeted helpful context for the trends in the market for advertising audiences via online marketing initiatives continued to that we are seeing at UBM.
According to Outsell, in the change rapidly.
The success of online marketing US total B2B digital advertising grew by 10% to $59.5bn, campaigns are now determined by the level of active while print advertising has continued to exhibit a broad customer engagement and participation.
The market is decline of 3.7% to $39.8bn.
This demonstrates that the becoming increasingly sophisticated in how it generates market continues to move from print towards greater and measures these levels of interaction.
The core value emphasis on digital and other live means of addressing of B2B information providers used to lie in their original target audiences.
product, such as a trade magazine or directory, whether physical or online.
Today, the asset is the specialist Within digital B2B marketing spend in the US community for whom they provide information and industry-specic trade web sites grew by 9.7% to $3.9bn.
interaction: a relationship with this community enables Webinars grew by 21.3% to $2bn and the Outsell survey them to act as a gateway for advertisers.
results suggest these had high lead-generating effectiveness of 58.4%.
Sponsoring content grew by UBMs market position 10.6% to $1.4bn and virtual tradeshows grew by 8.6% As for live events, it is the audience engagement to $1bn.
TechNavios analysts forecast the global virtual of each online or digital brand within its specic events market to grow at a CAGR of 53.1% over the community or geography that is the key to the strength 20122016 period.
Within print B2B marketing spend in the US, custom print Much like its live equivalent, the virtual events market is publications declined by 4.3% to $9.4bn and print highly fragmented.
UBMs expertise in this area means it is magazines declined by 4.3% to $7.5bn although the well-positioned to take advantage of the forecasted growth Outsell survey suggests they still showed lead generation in this area.
Print directories declined by 3.9% Through a process of continual review, UBM aims to focus to $4.5bn.
We expect this structural shift to continue, on profitable publications that offer synergies with the driving a gradual decline in the number of print titles.
expanding online and events businesses.
Our print portfolio will continue to generate rationalisation opportunities, and we aim to maintain a presence in markets where we can command a strong leadership position.
Marketing Services Online and Print Change Underlying 1 1 2012 2011 Change at CC change m m % % % Marketing Services Online 112.5 116.7 -3.6 -4.1 1.8 Marketing Services Print 51.3 85.9 -40.3 -40.3 -16.9 Total Marketing Services Revenue 163.8 202.6 -19.2 -19.4 -4.6 2 Total Adjusted Operating profit 6.8 14.2 -52.1 -52.4 2 Total Adjusted Operating profit Margin 4.2 7.0 -2.8%pt 1 See table of Section 2 of the Financial statements page 85 relating to reclassication following the Delta announcement.
In addition to this the 2011 gures have been restated to reect an additional 3.9m of online revenue reclassied during the formation of the UBM Technology business unit.
2 See explanation of UBMs business measures on page 42.
Marketing Services remains a key area of focus for Online underlying revenue growth was 1.8%.
Online management in 2013 and we have successfully removed engagement products made good progress and at the year 31.4m of cost.
This includes restructuring our UBM studios end there were 34 live communities, up from 11 last year.
business: in 2012 we created 122 digital environments Good revenue growth from these higher engagement products compared to over 250 in 2011. was largely offset by reduced advertising spend, notably in the technology, construction and electronics verticals and Total Marketing Services revenue fell 19.2% to 163.8m a reduction in unprofitable virtual events revenues.
During 2012, we discontinued or disposed of 27 print titles.
The print portfolio which has been rationalised The structural declines of print and the disposal of assets had contributed 4.2m of revenue in 2012 prior to being sold, resulted in a decline in adjusted operating profit to 6.8m as compared to 29.8m full year revenues in 2011.
Aside from the portfolio rationalisation, the structural decline in print continues, especially within the technology, electronics, construction and healthcare verticals.
The underlying print revenue decline was 16.9%.
Case study: quality content In recent years a key area of focus for UBM has been how to Another illustration of the robustness of this model is that it works both in markets in which UBM has a strong media engage its professional communities as effectively online as presence, and also where it is a new player.
In February 2012, it does at its live events.
UBM launched TheONC, for the oncology nurse community, Within UBM a team has developed a deck of proprietary that attracted 8,500 professionals to participate in the first editorial best practices to persuade professionals to connect year.
On average, a nurse spent nearly eight minutes on the with one another on our sites.
It provides an opportunity for site during each visit.
Collectively the community posted them to learn from each other, as well as consuming content nearly 700 messages per month.
These are high levels of from award-winning journalists.
The success of this model lies engagement for a professional community, but they arent in the greater engagement levels on these community sites the most impressive feature of the site.
That emerged in a compared to traditional B2B media sites on average UBM-commissioned study on the sites effectiveness.
On one site in the US technology sector, The study revealed that the single greatest afrmation of the Enterprise efficiency, the introduction of live streaming video value of TheONC for the oncology community was that in June 2012 increased the number of message-board posts nurses were able to use the content to improve care for more by 25% to 5,000 per month by the end of the year.
How many traditional B2B media sites can claim that level of life-changing impact?
21 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
