36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Developing Ultras people The success Ultra achieves in innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities of the Groups employees.
Ultra recognises this and is committed to having an efficient organisation with engaged and competent people.
Culture: each of the individual businesses is run What people mean to Ultra Ultra defines its culture as the values, role autonomously, with the Managing The success Ultra achieves in innovating to models, processes, procedures and Directors and Presidents encouraged to meet customer needs is based on the broad behaviours of its employees that drive behave like owner-managers.
range of skills and capabilities of its Ultras success.
Many individuals join the employees.
All managers in Ultra work Audacity: Ultra team each year, through organic towards the aim of delivering an efficient Audacious thinking is the difference growth, natural staff turnover and organisation with engaged and committed between incremental improvement and acquisitions.
Ultra is committed to ensuring people to meet the Groups business business transformation.
It takes the idea that its culture is not diluted as the Group commitments.
It is vital to the continuing of innovation, one of Ultras core values, grows.
The Groups culture, values and growth and success of Ultra that the quality and invites employees to think about issues behaviours are shaped by the strategic of the leadership teams is constantly in ways that are unconstrained by existing tenets, described on pages 18 and 19, improved.
Many businesses state that their norms and make use of creative with the fifth tenet calling for an efficient people are the companys most important approaches to every aspect of the Groups organization with engaged and competent asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the Groups business.
Many of Ultras businesses have people.
To achieve this, Ultra has right people are its most important asset.
conducted audacity workshops which identied four cultural behaviours of its challenge the attendees to think of stretch Growth through engagement people that are highly valued and targets for their business which have the During 2012 an additional complementary encouraged.
These are leadership, potential to transform the business.
In set of behaviours called LAUNCH were entrepreneurship, audacity and paranoia.
2012 the Group ran an internal innovation introduced.
These behaviours are designed Together, they are known within the challenge called the Audacity Fund.
Here, specically to support improved customer Group as LEAP.
funds are made available to turn ideas relationship building.
Leadership: from employees into reality.
Any employee Good leadership is extremely important can submit a proposal for an idea that to Ultra and a number of models of could improve one of Ultras existing leadership are incorporated in the products or services, solve a customers development and training programmes problem or result in a new business that are delivered around the Group.
These opportunity for the Group.
The best are are designed to help develop leadership then awarded funding to turn them into skills for employees already in leadership research and development projects with positions or about to move into such a role.
the expectation that they will augment the Leadership applies at all levels of Groups performance in the future.
management for team leaders, supervisors, Paranoia: Listen managers in fact for anyone who is Paranoia in the business sense is a concern to the customer responsible for others.
Ultra needs effective and fear about competitors and what they Ask leaders who have the ability to utilise the may do.
It also relates to concerns and the right questions appropriate mix of soft and hard power, fears about things that can go wrong Understand depending on management circumstances, internally for example with development what their pain is clearly that is known as smart power.
projects or with the Groups strategic Need Entrepreneurship: relationships.
Paranoia is a very healthy identify the customers needs: Being entrepreneurial is a behaviour that business behaviour and ensures that an get their agreement underpins the Groups strategy.
All Ultra appropriate consideration is given to the Create businesses seek to provide customers with risks and threats faced by the Group that a relationship, opportunity solutions that are different from, and can then be pre-empted or their effects and solution better than, those of the competitors.
For Ultra, paranoia is important Holistic Ultras entrepreneurial culture seeks to in focusing its staff on maximising their examine the bigger picture: how can maximise the capability to generate knowledge of the competitive landscape by Ultra maximise the scope and value of excellent ideas and the business skills to constantly asking questions of the Groups the opportunity bring them to market.
Not all new ideas customers, teaming partners and suppliers.
work first time and Ultras no blame LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses culture ensures that positive lessons are to generate more opportunities, and learned from setbacks.
Entrepreneurship is ultimately to deliver increased growth hard-wired into the Groups structure as through enhanced customer engagement.
75% 80% 81% 86% 84% 97% 95% 95% 96% 96% Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Retention of high-performers in the green Internal appointments at Executive Team, zone see graphic in main text Divisional and MD President level 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Succession planning and retention been able to appoint a high proportion of To ensure that Ultra has the right people in its leaders at Board, divisional and business the right place in the organisation, each of levels through internal promotion.
Ultras businesses prepares an annual Businesses must also make sure that the organisation, succession and development talent pool is deep enough to cope with plan.
In this, individuals are assessed these internal appointments.
Therefore, as against their performance in their current well as the people listed as successors, role and their potential to perform a larger each business also identies people with role.
This assessment positions the high potential.
The combined list represents individual on the performance versus Ultras high-yer talent pool and is used potential grid shown below.
It recognises regularly to nd the right people to ll that any role in the business will become internal vacancies.
In a typical year Ultra Securing the talent pipeline more challenging as the business grows.
Over and Ultra has been committed to Equal attention is given to enhancing the above this, acquisitions bring new people developing people ever since it was performance of and retaining the into the Ultra team.
formed in 1993 and has a number of individuals in the green zone of the grid Training and development programmes that help the Group to and to addressing the challenges of the The Group actively supports and invests in attract the best people as well as people in the amber and red zones.
This training and development linked to encouraging students to develop does not always mean that those business needs.
Each business is responsible careers in engineering or business.
individuals in the red and amber areas for identifying the training needs of its Examples of how Ultra businesses must leave Ultra.
Often they need to be employees and managing its own training do this are: placed in a role more suited to their talents budget.
This typically takes place through Ultra businesses have formed special and in which they can perform as required individual employee performance and relationships with schools in their by the business.
Ultra has achieved high development reviews, which are held at surrounding communities, hosting retention rates of those individuals on the least annually.
Ultra has its Learning company visits, helping with school business senior management teams who Academy, an online portal, available to all science fairs and providing work are in the green zone.
of the Groups businesses, that enables the experience opportunities.
scheduling of training, hosts online courses Ultra has sponsored students through and retains the training records of Ultras their last two years at school.
Specic training programmes provides students with support and are provided for individuals as necessary.
In mentoring during their studies and has 2012, 20 different in-house training led to students electing to undertake courses were run in the UK and in North STEM degree courses.
Many of these are courses Many Ultra businesses have well tailored to the specic requirements of established, successful, Ultra and the trainers have an intimate apprenticeship programmes.
knowledge of how the Group operates across all its businesses.
These training Low Medium High Very High Ultra businesses also provide events include programmes on leadership opportunities for students to work on Potential and management along with workshops real projects through work on Ultras successful competitive strategy, placement, co-op programmes and By developing and retaining the high strategic selling, programme management internship schemes.
potential individuals in the green zone, the and systems engineering.
Ultra has excellent links with Group is creating its next generation of universities around the world.
It allows business leaders who will be able to take the Group access to leading research up the challenge of continuing the growth and to relationships with students and expansion of Ultra.
who may ultimately join Ultra.
The The succession planning element of the Group sees benefit in working with process aims to ensure that there are universities to collaborate on suitable successors for all the management innovation and to recruit students team roles across each business and other who can make a difference.
Ultra has, as a result, STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths Performance 7.
