38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sustainability Ultra believes that a successful and sustainable business is built on more than just financial results.
Ultra has a long, consistent track record of development and growth and has built a reputation for meeting its commitments.
This reputation is not only based on the businesses meeting their obligations, but importantly on the manner in which they do so.
Ultra is committed to maintaining the high Ultra is committed to operating in standards of business ethics that underpin accordance with all legislative requirements, this reputation.
The Ultra Board requires including those pertaining to anti-bribery that the Group should at all times be a and corruption practices, the relevant responsible corporate citizen and, as such, national export control regulations and any the Group complies with all applicable competition and anti-trust laws.
legislation in the countries in which it Ultra has a corporate ethics policy which operates.
The Board has determined that encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
the Groups corporate responsibility All the individual businesses are required to initiatives are to be focused on the report on compliance every month.
In following key areas: addition, the Board reviews compliance Diversity and inclusion twice a year.
Although ultimate responsibility for the Groups ethics policy Ethical business conduct lies with the Board, Managing Directors Health and safety and Presidents of the individual businesses Environment have responsibility for the implementation Diversity and inclusion and control of the policy.
Ultra is committed to maintaining a work Providing guidance and support environment that provides equal to employees opportunities for all employees regardless The Group has continued to strengthen of nationality, gender, ethnic background, its policies and processes to ensure sexual orientation, religious beliefs, marital employees have the clear guidance they status, disability or age.
The Group need in identifying and managing ethical complies with all applicable employment matters, including: raising concerns, rights and legislation in the countries in conicts of interest, competitive which it operates.
intelligence and sponsorships and charitable donations.
The Group has Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to introduced additional and updated training ensure the best candidate is selected based to support employees more effectively.
on objective requirements and assessments.
Ultra measures gender and age diversity.
To support its continuing commitment to business ethics, a Group-wide independent, Ethical business conduct Ultra remains committed to achieving and condential weband telephone-based hotline was implemented in 2009 to allow sustaining a prominent role in ethical business conduct.
To support these aims, employees to report concerns anonymously about possible improprieties and other the Group has focused its initiatives on three core areas: compliance issues, see page 56 of the Governance section of this report.
meeting and exceeding the legal and ethical standards Reports made to the hotline are compiled by the independent operator and providing guidance and support to forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit employees Committee or for US businesses, an independent Ethics Overview forwarded to the directors of the Special Committee to offer advice and guidance Security Arrangement Board or Proxy Board Meeting legal and ethical standards as appropriate for action.
Any employee Ultra requires that all employees, businesses found to be in breach of the ethics policy is and all third parties who act on Ultras subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
behalf must comply fully with the Groups standards of business ethics and with the applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which it does business.
0.192 0.160 0.165 0.200 0.212 0.56 0.34 0.55 1.06% 1.14% 1.30% 1.24% 1.31% Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Fig 3a Reportable recordable Fig 3b Lost time accidents Fig 4 Packaging Waste accidents per employee per 200,000 hours t m sales in UK Businesses 1.5% 0.60 0.250 1.2% 0.50 0.200 0.9% 0.40 0.150 0.6% 0.30 0.100 0.3% 0.20 0.050 0.0% 0.10 0.000 08 09 10 11 12 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Independent Ethics Overview Committee The Chief Executive is the Board member maximise the use of environmentally To support the Group in achieving and with overall health and safety responsibility.
Ultra ensures the sustaining its aim of being a leader in All Ultra operating businesses are required full co-operation of all employees to ethical business conduct, Ultra established to have a written heath and safety.
Each minimise environmental impact and an independent Ethics Overview Managing Director or President is maximise the conservation of materials.
The Ethics Overview responsible for the management of health Operational Committee provides independent and safety within their business, and for The Chief Executive is the main Board guidance, advice and scrutiny of Ultras providing adequate resource to satisfy the member with overall environmental business activity.
The Committee provides Boards requirements.
The Managing Directors and assurance that Ultras business is being assessed through independent external Presidents of the operating businesses are conducted in line with the Groups policies, audits which occur bi-annually.
responsible for implementation of the processes and in accordance with the Each operating business is required to policy.
Where appropriate, individual appropriate legislation.
Members of the submit a separate annual report on health businesses have ISO14001 accreditation.
Committee undertake visit to Ultra and safety performance which, along with Ultra has a formal environmental policy businesses to assess their compliance with the result of the audits, is reviewed by the that addresses compliance with the Groups standard of business ethics.
The reportable recordable accident environmental legislation, conformity with The Committee comprises six permanent rate has been maintained over recent years standards for air, waste disposal and noise, members, three of whom, including the and is shown in gure 3a.
Lost time the economical use of materials and the Chairman, are independent.
To maintain accident data per 200,000 hours has been establishment of appropriate environmental the highest degree of impartiality, the recorded for the whole Group since 2010 performance standards.
Progress is independent members of the Committee and is shown in gure 3b.
monitored through annual reporting and a are self-selecting.
The appointment of the The reportable recordable accident rate bi-annual external audit process, the most Chairman is also exclusively within the per employee for 2012 fell from 1.14% recent of which took place in 2011. remit of the independent members.
Compliance to environmental requirements Health and safety Ultras continuous safety improvement is planned and managed by site and the Ultras commitment to the safety and wellactivities are focused on ensuring that processes for the storage, handling and being of the Groups employees, visitors the Groups facilities, infrastructure, disposal of hazardous or pollutant materials and the local communities is a key priority.
processes, products and services are as are reviewed on a continuous basis.
Ultra A healthy, committed workforce working in safe as reasonably practical for Ultras has caused no contamination of land in a safe environment is necessary to achieve employees, visitors, local communities, 2012, continuing the excellent track record superior business results.
Therefore, Ultra customers and users.
of the previous four years.
places great emphasis on maintaining high Environment In the UK, Ultra measures and reports on its standards of health and safety, not just for Ultra recognises that it is important, both for packaging waste annually and is shown in employees, visitors and the local its employees and the communities in which gure 4.
Businesses are encouraged and communities, but also for the people using it operates, that effective measures are in incentivised to reduce the net amount of Ultras products and services.
place to minimise the environmental impact waste they produce.
Across the Group, the businesses manage of its activities as this will help to secure the Energy consumption is measured annually a wide range of safety risks.
This ranges long term future of the Group.
These and the data compared with previous from ofce employees, manufacturing measures include both the operational years.
The Group is increasing its efforts to employees and employees providing business environment and the products and address energy conservation and emissions.
services at customer sites, including services that the Group provide.
Ultra in the UK is registered with the Products Environment Agency as part of the Carbon The safety of the products and services The processes and practises in the Reduction Commitment programme.
The provided to users and customers is also of individual operating businesses ensure Groups compliance emissions fell from key importance to Ultra.
The individual that environmental considerations are 7,332 tonnes 2011 12 to 6,511 tonnes operating businesses ensure that the taken into account throughout the 2, a reduction of 11%.
2011 12 of CO appropriate legal and ethical levels of safety products lifecycle, from concept through are met across a products lifecycle, with Ultras position in the 2011 12 CRC to disposal.
The individual operating particular emphasis on the manufacturing, Performance League Table PLT is available businesses work with their suppliers to in-service and disposal phases.
on the Environment Agencys website.
reduce the impact of their products and to 7.
