WINNING WITH PEOPLE I AM EXCITED TO SEE THE TEA PICKERS USING MY DESIGN IN THE FIELD Samwel Nyagucha, tea picker, Kenya 24 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Sustainable, profitable growth can Employer brand only be achieved if the right people are Capability and leadership We have focused on ensuring that working in an organisation that is fit to our standing as an employer what win, underpinned by a culture in which we call our employer brand has our performance is always aligned with To double the size of our business, we need commitment to sustainability at the values.
We are increasingly an agile, to support the talented people we already core.
We have built an employer brand flexible and diverse business with people employ so they can be the best they can be.
development tool which leverages best who are motivated by doing good while We also need to attract the best people in practice, and adapted our recruitment doing well.
We are building capability the market place.
models to reach the best people wherever and leadership among our people and they are in the world.
we are attracting some of the best talent Employer of choice in the market place.
This year, we were voted the number Our digital presence is a vital factor in one FMCG fast-moving consumer goods this.
Sustained investment and innovation employer of choice among graduates in our social media interactions have in 20 countries.
Potential employees in seen us become the highest ranked FMCG markets as diverse as Russia and Vietnam, company on LinkedIns global InDemand Brazil and Bangladesh, or Indonesia index.
Our Facebook global careers page and the UK think that we are the most has attracted more than 110,000 likes, attractive employer in our sector.
with the highest numbers in India, Brazil, Egypt and Indonesia of any global careers We achieved this top ranking in several page.
It is the second largest Facebook countries for the very first time, including page dedicated to careers.
Mexico, Germany and Spain while in India we were employer of choice, not just in our sector, but across the entire employment market.
We are leveraging our partnership with No.
1 One Young World, an annual global summit FMCG employer of choice where young ambassadors collaborate among graduates in on projects to change the world for the better.
This year it allowed us to introduce Unilever and its commitment to making sustainability commonplace to 1,200 20 countries delegates from 183 countries.
BASKETS OF INGENUITY REACHING DIVERSITY Each year, we recognise a number of employees as TOMORROWS RECOGNISED Unilever heroes for work that brings our values to LEADERS DIGITALLY We are proud winners life see page 26.
Samwel Nyagucha was picking tea We went from 40,000 of the prestigious on our Kaptien estate in Kenya when he saw a way to followers on LinkedIn 2013 Catalyst Award, make pickers work more efficient.
Inspired by baskets to 235,000 in ten months honouring exceptional hed seen on other estates, he designed a new picking and we are still business initiatives for basket which keeps the tea fresh and is light and easy exploring the potential women in the workplace.
to carry, allowing the picker to work more efficiently.
of social networks as a We were recognised way to engage with future for accelerating the In 2012, 6,500 baskets made to Samwels design were employees.
Recruits advancement of highdistributed across our tea plantations in Kenya and can now reach us through potential women, they were introduced in Unilever Tea Tanzania.
Twitter and Facebook as and leveraging cultural well as LinkedIn and diversity and multinational we have seen an increase expertise to promote in career page visits.
OUR PEOPLE IN ACTION TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT WHAT WE DO AND MEET SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO BRING OUR PRODUCTS TO LIFE GO TO WWW.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 25 WINNING WITH PEOPLE continued Leadership for the future family-friendly working conditions, We are committed to the growth of a culture of accountability, and initiatives Values and our people throughout their careers, like employee networks and mentoring, performance culture and to ensuring that leadership skills our business is becoming increasingly in particular are developed at every gender-balanced.
By the end of 2012, level of management.
Our new Four 41% of our management headcount were Ours has always been a business based Acres Learning and Leadership Centre women, compared to 39% at the end of on values.
We aim to ensure that integrity, in Singapore, scheduled to open in 2011.
After a decade of steady improvement, responsibility, respect and pioneering mid-2013, is physical proof of this achieving an increase of more than 1% spirit underpin our activities.
Like our long-standing Four in a single year shows progress but we two years we have found new ways to Acres Centre in Kingston, UK, the facility recognise there is still a long way to go.
express those values through the Unilever will run a global curriculum to drive Sustainable Living Plan USLP.
excellence and commitment to leadership We are working hard to improve further development and sustainability.
and it is encouraging that we have received Engaged employees external recognition for our efforts.
For We have been encouraged by what our We now have programmes for existing example, we were: awarded the prestigious people are telling us about our culture.
and future leaders at all levels.
These 2013 Catalyst Award: awarded Company Our Global People Survey GPS measures are designed in a blended approach of of the Year in the Vodafone European the level of engagement of all employees.
leaders teaching leaders, senior executive Diversity Awards 2012: named Top Over 114,000 eligible employees participated sponsorship, academic rigour and Employer by workingmums.
co. uk: winners in the 2012 survey, representing an 87% application through job experience, of Japanese magazine Toyo Keizais Female response rate.
Our engagement score of mentors and coaches.
Management Appointment Award for 2012: 75%, up from 73% in the 2010 GPS, is now named among the 2012 Working Mother in line with the scores of high-performing A diverse business for a diverse world 100 Best Companies in the US: and our employers in our class.
Two billion people use our products every US business was given a 100% rating in day and, if we are to meet their needs, we the Human Rights Campaigns Corporate Other key aspects of the survey also need to reflect their diversity in our own Equality Index.
showed good progress: scores rose by workplaces.
Through better recruitment, 5% for people management, and by 4% for performance culture, bias for action and diversity.
We believe that the USLP and our values are significant factors in keeping employees fully engaged in our business and therefore driving performance.
Everyday heroes Our values are exemplified every day by thousands of employees, without whom our business could not meet its ambitions for sustainable growth.
But even amidst all this good work, some actions stand out.
This year we honoured six employees nominated by their colleagues as Unilever heroes one of the ways in which we recognise significant contributions to society and our business.
FOUR ACRES SINGAPORE In 2011, we began work on the Unilever Four Acres Singapore has accommodation Four Acres Learning and Leadership Centre for 55 students and includes two flexible in Singapore.
The facility is on course to open training rooms, a teaching amphitheatre in mid-2013, and will provide learning and and a multi-purpose hall for up to 200 people.
capability development from our new global curriculum, designed to ensure that our people More at: www.
com have the skills to meet our growth ambitions.
 26 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our 2012 heroes include people such as Samwel Nyagucha pictured on page 24, a tea picker on the Kaptien estate in Kenya, 7 5 % whose initiative has transformed the Our employee engagement score, working life of colleagues on his plantation: now in line with high-performing Koray Kezer, a customer development employers in our class manager in Turkey, who spent nights sleeping in his car while he helped customers and colleagues affected by a 7.2 magnitude earthquake in the Van, 11 0 000 region last year: and Abdullah Toseef, who used scrap materials to implement a likes of our Facebook global careers water conservation project which is saving page within six months of launch 28 million litres of fresh water each year at the Rahim Yar Khan factory in Pakistan, where Abdullah is assistant manager.
Agile flexible diverse EMPLOYER OF CHOICE: organisation CAREERS WITH PURPOSE We have substantially improved the We enhanced our standing as an employer by structure of our business over several developing the Employer Brand Development years, aiming to create an agile, flexible Wheel, putting potential employees at the heart of our thinking.
This repeatable model, and diverse organisation that can meet used in every market, is designed to exceed the needs of consumers all over the world.
expectations and beat the competition.
For example, our Future Leaders Programme allows young graduates to take on real Dynamic structure for dynamic markets challenges like shaping the messaging behind We are already seeing results from Lifebuoys handwashing campaign, bringing changing our approach to the global hygiene benefits to millions of people and contributing to the brands consistent sales market place.
Where we formerly growth over the past five years.
dealt with 22 geographical sub-entities, we now divide our business between More at: www.
com careers eight markets, six of which are primarily made up of developing economies.
This streamlined structure has allowed us to focus sharply on growth, particularly in emerging markets.
We can now re-allocate resources quickly between markets, share best practice more easily and concentrate our efforts on a larger number of bigger projects.
Safety a core value Ensuring the safety and well-being of our people and of contractors, suppliers and visitors is integral to our business.
Our ambition is to record zero accidents.
We focus continuously on improving safety through the positive behaviour of our people, the design of our plants, facilities and products, and by implementing safe systems and procedures throughout Unilever.
A key measure of our progress, set out in the USLP, is the total recordable accident frequency rate, which counts all employee workplace accidents except those requiring only simple first aid treatment.
This year our total recordable accident frequency rate was down by 9% compared with 2011.
Some of our KPIs will be independently assured in 2013.
See our online Unilever Sustainable Living Report for 2012 at www.
com sustainable-living, to be published in April 2013.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 27
