Our Performance Committed to people Vesuvius ambitious business plan is supported by a three-legged Human Resources strategy: For each strategic focus area, examples of the most recent HR programme implemented at Vesuvius are described below.
H HIRE AND RESOURCE Vesuvius looks at diversity in its broadest sense, recognising the importance of getting the right balance of independence, skills, knowledge and experience, both on the Board and across the business.
As a global business Vesuvius employs some 11,000 people excluding those employed in joint ventures Vesuvius is a well-established and highly in 30 countries: our management grades alone respected company where I will have a comprise over 50 nationalities.
Diversity is therefore chance to develop my skills and be trained an integral part of how Vesuvius does business.
The The benefits that different perspectives can bring Columbus project is a great opportunity to are widely recognised and in recruiting employees work in a professional environment and it is Vesuvius draws on a varied range of backgrounds an interesting cross-cultural experience.
and expertise, benefiting from all dimensions of diversity including cultural and gender diversity.
Michal Smola, graduate from the For the third consecutive year, the Columbus department of programme has helped rejuvenate our employment Chemical Technology, base by encouraging promising young graduates, Kracows University from emerging countries, to join Vesuvius and start of Technology an international career.
This graduate intake is a Politechnika corporate resource and is funded centrally.
Krakowska, participant in the In 2011, five graduates from Poland and one from 2011 Columbus programme.
In January 2012, the Czech Republic commenced their careers in China.
Michal was appointed as Project Engineer with the Foundry Business Unit in Hengelo In 2012, a graduate exchange programme was Netherlands.
introduced and three graduates from both India and China exchanged places.
In 2013 a similar programme is planned with Brazil and India.
com Stock Code: VSVS 35 Committed to people continued T TRAIN AND DEVELOP We aim to grow our technical expertise and strengthen our learning organisation.
For this we rely on local training initiatives as well as well-developed Corporate Training programmes and heaTt, the Vesuvius technical university.
heaTt courses, all internally developed, were delivered In 2012, we delivered the third and final session of our to 340 customer-facing employees in 2012 by our industrial marketing programme, Pulse, developed in own specialists.
Each Business Unit offers different cooperation with INSEAD.
As a logical follow-up to our levels of courses suitable for beginners right through Boost!
programme, developed with INSEAD for 120 to the expert.
senior managers, a new programme for middle managers was designed with the Vlerick Business School: Wings.
Our technical university ensures that Vesuvius maintains its competitive advantage in delivering an The pilot was successfully delivered in April 2012 enhanced technical service to our customers.
In 2012, covering a wide range of business management topics we developed an additional seven courses and can including the strengthening of leadership capabilities now offer 32 technical modules for delivery worldwide.
The programme will run for four years to allow all of our middle-managers with peoplemanagement responsibilities to attend the course.
heaTt is a very powerful training platform.
Experienced colleagues gave me a ANOTHER 2012 INITIATIVE CENTRED detailed insight into our products and their AROUND THE UK BRIBERY ACT.
I am better positioned now to In response to the UK Bribery Act, the successfully partner with our customers and Companys Code of Conduct was revised and elaborate solutions for their specific needs.
recommunicated to all employees in 2011.
New heaTt significantly contributed to raise my policies on anti-bribery & corruption have been confidence in front of the customers.
Together they require that employees and others working on behalf of the Company do Emiel Herdenberg, not engage in any form of bribery or corruption.
Account Manager, for Advanced An anti-bribery and corruption compliance Refractories in programme has been established throughout the Netherlands, the Group, and is being implemented through after attending the a targeted face-to-face training programme.
heaTt Advanced An e-learning module has been developed and Refractories training is being rolled out globally, as local language in Oxselosund, versions become available, to relevant office-based Sweden.
New employees, if relevant, will go through the training as part of their induction process.
The compliance programme includes undertaking risk assessments and engaging with others working on behalf of the Company to ensure that their standards comply with Vesuvius policies.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 36 Our Performance R RETAIN AND MOTIVATE Image: Living the Values Awards Ceremony Bruges, Belgium April 2012 Award winners from Belgium, Brazil, China, Egypt, France, Germany, Spain, Thailand, the United Kingdom, the USA and Vietnam As a way to optimise the talents of our employees and encourage nominations for the colleagues who provide continued development opportunities, several have best demonstrated the five Group Values at HR programmes have been deployed worldwide.
work: Embracing Diversity, Cooperation, Creativity, Reliability and Integrity.
During the People Review process, local, regional and global management personnel discuss their people in The Awards process culminated in a ceremony, held in a structured format, they identify the strengths of their Bruges, Belgium, in April 2012 during which the fifteen organisation and define the areas for improvement.
award winners, seven individuals and eight teams, were presented with their awards by the Vesuvius The Performance Management Process contributes to Executive Committee.
Each winner nominated their formalising the career aspirations of our employees preferred charity to receive a donation.
and assists in structuring training plans.
People are judged according to their results High Potentials are identified at local, regional and but our Group Values should be at the core of global level and individual development plans are everything we do and the key to helping us devised by their managers to support their career deliver positive results, Franois Wanecq, Chief development.
Executive, Vesuvius plc More recently, Vesuvius has launched the Living The Values Awards, a worldwide initiative to SPLIT HEADCOUNT HEADCOUNT SALARIED HOURLY PER PRODUCT LINE PER REGION n HOURLY 54% n FLOW CONTROL 38% n NORTH ASIA 3% n SALARIED 37% n FOUNDRY TECH.
24% n CHINA 16% n TEMPS 9% n FUSED SILICA 6% n SOUTH ASIA 3% n ADV REFRACTORIES 25% n INDIA 7% n SHARED SERVICES 7% n EUROPE 42% n SOUTH AMERICA 6% n NAFTA 23% www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 37 Image: Troy Price Champaign USA Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 38
