Our Performance Sustainability We will operate all work and business activities in a manner which ensures appropriate care and protection of the environment.
VESUVIUS ENVIRONMENT POLICY BACKGROUND energy usage and subsequent CO emissions reduction 2 Vesuvius has a relatively large number of small and through insulating materials, laminar flow management, medium sized facilities located in 30 countries throughout extended sequences and reduced downtime.
the worlds major economic regions.
Thanks to this network, we are located close to our customers.
We can ENERGY CONSERVATION PLAN operate in just-in-time supply chains with short lead times Energy consumption and CO emissions are regularly 2 from order to delivery and reduced transport times to our monitored and taken into account in all our investment customers located in more than 100 countries.
All our factory emissions are proactively managed in accordance with local regulations.
Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive Regular analysis of our operations enables us to take total energy costs are less than 3% of revenue and appropriate actions to reduce our emissions.
do not produce large quantities of hazardous or other wastes and emissions.
The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan was launched in 2011 with the objective of reducing our normalised Our businesses deliver, under the Vesuvius and the energy consumption by 10% over the following Foseco brands, a large range of solutions that help three years.
Managing our energy intensity is part our customers improve not only the productivity but of enhancing our cost competitiveness.
It also also the quality of their products, the environmental contributes to improving the total environmental footprint of the processes and employee safety.
It is part of our commitment to the communities in which we operate.
Vesuvius products are used in molten metal handling and at extreme temperatures.
Our first commitment ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CO IMPACT INITIATIVE 2 to our customers is the reliability of our solutions that Vesuvius specialised expertise in molten metal help to protect their employees safety through the handling and casting provides assistance to customers prevention of failures that could have catastrophic both by reducing the energy intensity of their existing consequences for employees or equipment.
and new breakthrough processes, and through the manufacture of new products that improve the energy Reducing the impact of our activities on the environment efficiency of metal-using products in society.
is a constant priority at Vesuvius.
Vesuvius targets the highest standards of quality, safety and sustainability in The Energy Efficiency and CO Impact project is a 2 its own operations and endeavours to meet the global corporate initiative launched to foster the deployment of expectations of its customers and stakeholders.
energy efficiency and sustainable solutions engineered by our technology departments.
A CO Impact stamp, 2 Thermal optimisation, slag and reject reduction are key launched in 2011, highlights the most energy efficient factors in the processes for which we supply solutions.
solutions in our portfolio of products and services.
Vesuvius contributes to the reduction of its customers www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 47 Sustainability ENERGY SAVING VESUVIUS PLC 900 Natural Gas million kWh Electricity million kWh 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 As shown by the above chart, energy use has been stable in the last three years.
Our fuel consumption is not directly related with quantities produced, as some energy-consuming tools operate continuously.
In 2012, electricity use decreased by 3% compared with 2011 and gas usage increased marginally.
CASE STUDY OVEN OPTIMISATION FOR There are also times when the machines are not SLEEVE FIRING AT IZURZA, SPAIN manufacturing, so it appeared there was room for improvement.
Juan Carlos Cruz tells us about this project: The objective is to combine both lines into one, running into one oven.
In Lean, the aim is that the product should continuously move towards the customer, so that the customer should never be kept waiting.
Therefore we studied different options that do not stop the flow of products.
The selected Image: Back row, left to right: Igor option called for the installation of rollers from Line Cenigaonaindia, Angel Quintanilla, Jesus Ortiz, 1 to Line 2.
Oven temperature and process speed Juan Carlos Cruz, Javier Salcines.
When the machines are working at 100%, it is necessary to have a buffer to store Front row, left to right: Ruben Marcos, David some trays: time when one machine is stopped for Gomez, Demetrio Maruri.
a tool change is enough to empty the buffer, so no issues arise regarding drying times for different Lean aims to eliminate non value-adding activities recipes and no HSE issues have been detected.
and waste from business processes.
RESULTS Izurza has two main lines for manufacturing sleeves, One oven runs at 100% capacity, the second each line is equipped with machines which feed oven is turned off an oven.
The bottlenecks in both lines were the Annual saving of 33,000 machines, as the ovens have more capacity than the Energy intensity of the firing process reduced machines, even when they are operating at 100%.
by 20% Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 48 Our Performance INNOVATIVE VESUVIUS REFRACTORY SOLUTION For the hearth design, the choice was driven ALLOWS MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT SLAB by health and safety issues generated by the REHEATING manipulation of heavy refractory blocks and by the overall short life performance of these blocks.
The product of choice is the HYDRA PLUS SPINEL C-2.
This is an ultra-low, coarse-grained high alumina product fortified with spinel to resist the harsh reheat hearth environment.
The pumpable installation is safer and faster than the former cast block technology.
After more than two years of service, the hearth is For a customer in Romania, increasing the overall unmarked.
The customer reported energy savings thermal efficiency with a safe and cost-effective of 743,000 per annum.
This corresponds to 15% solution was the objective for the relining of their energy saving per tonne of finished product.
For the side walls, Vesuvius opted for a combination of products selected George PLATT, Marketing and Technology Director on the basis of a thermal simulation and of field Advanced Refractories Europe proven mechanical resistance to scale and slag.
The main product is TRIAD 70.
This is a 70% Alumina, Mullite based no cement product.
It was applied using an innovative shotcreting technology.
KALPUR FEEDING SOLUTIONS FOR FERROUS The only way to locate the two castings within one FOUNDRIES mould was to use the direct pouring or KALPUR approach.
This system is a unique combination of metal filtration and feeding system products.
Foseco demonstrated the viability of this solution by the use of MAGMASOFT casting process simulation software to model the filling and solidification processes.
Since implementation of this solution, the customer has produced this casting successfully for almost two years.
Ferrous foundries supplying the automotive In this example the customer was able to industry use feeding systems to provide liquid double their production capacity without capital metal to the casting cavity during solidification.
investment, reduce energy consumption and This ensures that the castings produced are free maximise the efficiency of their manufacturing from shrinkage defects in all critical areas.
Customers key objectives are to reduce the weight Christof VOLKS, International Product Manager of the feeder, to maximise the amount of castings Feeding Systems per mould and to minimise the contact area between the feed reservoir and the casting.
A customer in Italy asked for a technical solution to produce two 94kg ductile iron axle supports in one mould.
com Stock Code: VSVS 49 Image: X Ray Fluorescence Vesuvius R&D Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 50
