QYLELR %LRPDWHULDO 6ROXWLRQV KRZ ZH FUHDWH YDOXH Invibio deliver safe, consistent and reliable high quality materials and components which are aligned to our customers fundamental needs.
Our investment in facilities and specialist resources from the medical device industry enable us to improve collaborations with our customers and better understand surgeons needs.
In recent years we have focused on growing our regulatory understanding in emerging geographies to enable our customers to gain faster penetration in markets where growth opportunities are more attractive.
IDEA DEVELOPMENT INITIAL CONCEPT MARKET UNDERSTANDING Spine Marketing Leader, Global With over 10 years in Spinal Device development with the MARKET worlds largest spine company I was intrigued by surgeons desire UNDERSTANDING to provide a less rigid fusion and avoid some of the issues with existing metal rod treatments.
Having established the perceived SDWLHQW EHQHWV DQG GLVFXVVHG WKHVH ZLWK VXUJHRQV DQG GHYLFH companies we focused on PEEK spinal rods as a solution.
TECHNOLOGY & APPLICATION INNOVATION LEADERSHIP TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION CUSTOMER SUPPORT Product Development Project Scientist, Global The current pre-clinical test standards were established for metal rods.
We investigated the impact on PEEK rods and REGULATORY QUALITY established important variations in testing to more accurately ACCESS evaluate these devices and have presented these at spine industry conferences in order that our customers accurately HYDOXDWH WKHVH GHYLFHV :H DOVR OHG LQWHOOHFWXDO SURSHUW DURXQG D PDWHULDO PRGLFDWLRQ WR UHGXFH WKH ULVN RI IDLOXUH END USER of these devices.
EXPERIENCE APPLICATION LEADERSHIP Spine Marketing Leader, Europe INVIBIO GROWTH More than ever medical device customers need to demonstrate ERWK WKH VDIHW DQG EHQHWV RI QHZ GHYLFHV :RUNLQJ ZLWK a professor who heads a leading spinal device research group and a pioneering spinal surgeon, we completed testing that demonstrated that PEEK meets performance requirements and could improve the clinical outcomes for patients in terms of preventing complications and the spread of degenerative disease.
CUSTOMER GROWTH 24 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information PRODUCT REALISATION VALUE CREATION CUSTOMER SUPPORT END USER EXPERIENCE Component Manufacturing Leader, Global %XVLQHVV 'HYHORSPHQW 0DQDJHU $VLD 3DFLF Having led medical device manufacturing in a division of a As a former surgeon I understand the clinical need for these global medical device market leader, I appreciate the role that materials and can communicate them to our customers in Asia manufacturing can play in market access.
Injection moulding and their surgeons.
It is important to be able to take our learning is a competency in Invibio and spinal rods are optimally around biomechanical testing of PEEK rods and help establish a manufactured in this way.
We were able to rapidly prototype strong understanding of how these devices should be considered these devices for customer evaluations and then utilise this and evaluated by regulatory bodies in Asia.
Part of this education experience to produce components for commercial use has involved a close collaboration with a research institution allowing rapid market entry.
in the US to look at the longer-term outcomes of these devices in patients.
REGULATORY ACCESS INVIBIO GROWTH Director of Regulatory Affairs, Global Marketing Communications Leader, Global Regulatory requirements for new medical devices are increasing.
At Spineweek in Amsterdam Invibio held educational sessions We have established excellent relationships with regulatory for surgeons and device companies on spinal rods with keynote authorities globally and by understanding the requirements we speakers from US and Europe.
We are in the process of publishing can proactively generate this data and improve the time to market RXU UHVHDUFK QGLQJV DQG SUH FOLQLFDO WHVWLQJ DGYLFH DQG SURPRWLQJ access for our customers.
For example, in spinal rods we can WKH HFRQRPLF HIFLHQF DQG SDFH RI RXU PDQXIDFWXULQJ RSHUDWLRQV help customers satisfy authorities that any particles created by DQG WKH FOLQLFDO EHQHWV RXU PDWHULDO SURYLGHV :H EHOLHYH WKLV the rod system will be safe in patients.
offering is unique and valued by our customers.
QUALITY Quality Manager, Global Invibio have an exceptional quality record and this is due to the priority we place on the safety of our products.
We test and qualify not only the rod components but the polymer and the raw materials given our unique integrated supply chain.
We were recently audited by one of the worlds largest device companies and described as the best supplier weve ever audited.
We aim to continually improve our quality performance.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Victrex plc 25 &RUSRUDWH UHVSRQVLELOLW DQG VXVWDLQDELOLW The Board considers that the management of safety, health, In brief environment SHE, social and ethical matters forms a key element of effective corporate governance which in turn X The Board considers that the management of supports the strategy, long-term performance and sustainability safety, health, environmental, social and ethical of the business.
matters forms a key element of effective corporate governance which in turn supports the long-term We recognise that sustainability is important to our stakeholders performance and sustainability of the business.
and that policy and communication should be continually reviewed.
With this in mind, we have commenced a project during X The Board believes that all employees should be 2012 to refresh our corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy focusing on our supply chain, our manufacturing able to work safely in a healthy workplace and operations, our impact in existing markets, resourcing and social that the Groups activities should not harm the impact, research and development and the development of new public or the environment.
The intent is to challenge and refresh our key priorities and metrics, which will promote new activities as well as bring X The Board recognises that our continued business many existing programmes of work together, and improve VXFFHVV LV D UHHFWLRQ RI WKH TXDOLW DQG VNLOO communication with our employees, shareholders and other of our talented and diverse workforce.
We look forward to communicating the outcome of this project in our 2013 Annual Report.
X In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences The Board has ultimate responsibility for policy and performance in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual in this area and receives a SHE report on a monthly basis.
orientation, religion, socio-economic status, The Chief Executive has Board level accountability for overseeing physical and mental ability, thinking style, these areas, which are managed in conjunction with all other experience and education.
business risks and are covered by the internal control systems and procedures outlined on pages 37 and 38.
Senior executives X We have a formal global ethics policy which are responsible for ensuring that the SHE policy is implemented incorporates the Groups key principles and in their departments and each department annually reviews their standards governing business conduct towards own SHE improvement plan.
Employees are also governed by additional policies such as ethics and anti-bribery to ensure the our key stakeholder groups.
We believe that we culture of our business environment fosters the right behaviours.
should treat all of these groups with honesty and integrity.
To ensure the appropriate level of focus and resource in this area we have a dedicated department of SHE professionals who X During the year there have been no oversee all aspects of policy, procedure and communication SURVHFXWLRQV QHV RU HQIRUFHPHQW DFWLRQ in this area.
The SHE team are an integral part of the business as a result of non-compliance with safety, and regularly attend meetings with other business groups health or environmental legislation.
as well as all Risk Management meetings.
X We recognise that sustainability is integral to We work proactively with both the Environment Agency EA and the Health and Safety Executive HSE to ensure they our business today and in the future.
In 2012 understand our business and we can take advice as appropriate.
we completed a strategic review of sustainability We conduct regular SHE audits around the business which for our business.
involve senior executives to reinforce the culture.
In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are frequently subject X :H DUH FRQVWDQWO VWULYLQJ WR LPSURYH HIFLHQF LQ to external third-party audits such as the EA and HSE as well all areas of our operations, including energy use as customers from some of our more demanding end markets.
and therefore CO emissions, water consumption The recommendations of any external audits are considered 2 and quantities of hazardous waste produced.
26 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In addition to regulatory compliance over our operations, The Groups excellent health and safety performance has RXU SURGXFWV DUH SURGXFHG WR VWULFW VSHFLFDWLRQV DQG RXU continued with no employee reportable injuries.
We did key processes are compliant with ISO standards ISO 9001 however have three project contractor reportable injuries and ISO 13485 and governed by our quality management one contractor suffered bruised ribs, one sustained a knee systems.
These are regularly tested and audited by appropriately injury and one back pain.
These incidents have been treated resourced quality control and quality assurance teams.
with the same scrutiny as employee reportable injuries to ensure they are not repeated and our contractors procedures From time to time we seek external advice to ensure we are have been amended accordingly.
aware of, and can apply as appropriate, developments in best practice.
This has been demonstrated most recently by the The Group received the Royal Society current project on our sustainability strategy as well as work for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA we are doing with the Carbon Trust.
Order of Distinction award in 2012 in recognition of sustained occupational A review of the Groups policies relating to SHE, employees health and safety achievement after and business ethics is set out below.
ZLQQLQJ IWHHQ FRQVHFXWLYH 5R63$ Gold Awards.
Safety, health and environment The Board believes that all employees should be able to work We seek to stay well ahead of relevant environmental standards.
safely in a healthy workplace and that the Groups activities Our manufacturing plants are regulated by Environmental should not harm the public or the environment.
Everyone in Permitting Regulations and, as such, are subject to close the Group is expected to place the highest priority on achieving monitoring of environmental emissions.
We work closely these aims.
Good SHE performance goes hand in hand with ZLWK WKH QYLURQPHQW $JHQF RQ DQ VLJQLFDQW FKDQJH good business performance.
projects to ensure Best Available Techniques are applied in the design stage.
These policy objectives are achieved by: 'XULQJ WKH HDU WKHUH ZHUH WKUHH QRWLDEOH HYHQWV $W RXU X identifying SHE hazards: Rotherham plant during routine prescribed air emissions PRQLWRULQJ WKH DPRXQW RI XRULGH DQG 12[ PHDVXUHG H[FHHGHG X assessment of the risks associated with the hazards: agreed limits.
In addition, at our Hillhouse plant there was a X implementation of appropriate control measures, with external VPDOO UH WKDW ZDV UDSLGO H[WLQJXLVKHG 2Q DOO WKUHH RFFDVLRQV guidance and advice being sought and used where appropriate: no environmental harm was caused.
X ensuring that all employees are appropriately and properly $V LQ SUHYLRXV HDUV WKHUH KDYH EHHQ QR SURVHFXWLRQV QHV RU trained and understand what they are required to do: enforcement actions as a result of non-compliance with safety, X reviewing and learning from our own and other peoples health or environmental legislation.
experiences and taking on board new legislation and other requirements: and The principal environmental impacts of the Groups UK operations are set out in the adjacent charts.
The environmental impact X ensuring that all employees contribute to improving SHE of our overseas operations is not considered material.
performance through regular and effective communication and consultation.
:H DUH FRQVWDQWO VWULYLQJ WR LPSURYH HIFLHQF LQ DOO DUHDV of our operations, including energy use and therefore CO 2 Line management are held responsible for SHE performance emissions, water consumption and quantities of hazardous in their areas and are held accountable for the SHE performance waste produced.
This is achieved by implementing many of those reporting to them.
All employees have a responsibility procedures and projects, large and small, across the business.
to work safely at all times and to follow procedures designed to protect the environment and the safety and health of all employees.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Victrex plc 27 &RUSRUDWH UHVSRQVLELOLW DQG VXVWDLQDELOLW continued Environmental impacts per tonne Safety, health and environment continued RI 9, &75 : 3.
VROG Of the key metrics we monitor, we are pleased to report that KD]DUGRXV ZDVWH GLVSRVDO WR ODQGOO SRVW WUHDWPHQW UHGXFHG further this year as a number of initiatives took effect.
Whilst Sales volume tonnes ZH FRQWLQXH WR ZRUN WRZDUGV LPSURYLQJ WKH JHQHUDO HIFLHQF of our processes, energy usage, CO emissions and water usage 2 per tonne of sales increased this year as a result of product mix, 2012 2,904 with growth in our downstream activities turning our basic 2011 2,860 SURGXFWV LQWR GLIIHUHQW IRUPV LQFOXGLQJ OP DQG SLSH DV ZHOO 2010 2,535 as production of a number of special grade products which 2009 1,547 we manufacture on a campaign basis.
2008 2,626 Employees The Board recognises that our continued business success is D UHHFWLRQ RI WKH TXDOLW DQG VNLOO RI RXU WDOHQWHG DQG GLYHUVH QHUJ XVH GJ tonne workforce.
The Chief Executive, supported by the Group Human Resources Director and the Managing Directors of each business unit, is responsible for overseeing employee matters.
This year 2012 203 we put in place a Group wide People Strategy, which will ensure 2011 199 we have processes in place to attract and retain the best talent, 2010 209 provide opportunities for personal development, encourage 2009 255 diversity and recognise and reward excellence.
We have continued to invest strongly in the development of our people through 2008 196 the establishment of formal and informal training programmes on a global basis.
Assessment of individual training needs 3 comprises a key element of the annual appraisal process which Water use m tonne is undertaken by all employees.
Training and development of our employees takes many forms including on the job training, VSHFLF VNLOOV WUDLQLQJ DQG SURIHVVLRQDO GHYHORSPHQW WUDLQLQJ 2012 163 We continually review our systems and policies in this area to 2011 153 ensure we evolve as the business grows and to that end have 2010 155 recruited a Learning and Development Manager into the team during the year.
We have succession plans in place for senior 2009 183 2008 roles and continue to work in developing our future leaders 148 so that we are able to promote internally as well as sourcing talent externally.
CO emissions tonnes equivalent 2 In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, physical and mental ability, thinking style, experience 2012 10.2 and education.
We believe that the wide array of perspectives 2011 10.1 that result from such diversity promotes innovation and 2010 10.5 2009 12.8 2008 9.8 D]DUGRXV ZDVWH GLVSRVDO WR ODQGOO post treatment tonnes 2012 0.00 2011 0.02 2010 0.02 2009 0.02 2008 0.04 28 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information business success.
We operate an equal opportunities policy and Our customers regard this as a commitment to make full use of the talents and :H UHFRJQLVH WKDW VDWLVHG FXVWRPHUV XQGHUSLQ RXU IXWXUH resources of all our employees, and to provide a healthy environment commercial prosperity, and that understanding and meeting which will encourage good and productive working relationships their needs is key to our success.
We will seek to: The Group places considerable emphasis on the involvement of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping them X have our products available to meet our promised delivery informed on matters relating to the performance of the Group schedules and deliver them when they are needed: or relating directly to them as employees, either formally through X continuously improve the quality and performance of our the Staff Committee, or informally via quarterly global staff products and services in line with customer needs: presentations, email communication and the Group intranet to which all employees worldwide have access.
In 2012 we conducted X provide prompt technical support for the products that workshops globally with our employees to engage with them customers have purchased: and get input on key factors affecting them.
Attendance of the X provide timely, reliable technical advice to customers workshops was voluntary and 61% of employees attended.
on new product applications: Feedback from the sessions is helping shape solutions in the appropriate work streams within the business.
X collaborate with customers to provide innovative solutions to their material requirements: and The Company supports employee share ownership and, where X operate to the highest ethical and business conduct standards.
practical, offers the opportunity to participate in share schemes.
As at 30 September 2012, approximately 93% 2011: 85% of Our suppliers employees worldwide were participants in employee share Our commitment to our customers is underpinned by a strong schemes, principally as option holders under the Companys supply chain.
We also sponsor pension plans IRU HPSOR HHV WKURXJKRXW WKH ZRUOG 7KHVH FRPSULVH GHQHG We will seek to: EHQHW RU GHQHG FRQWULEXWLRQ DUUDQJHPHQWV VDYLQJV VFKHPHV and provident funds designed to provide appropriate retirement X maintain appropriate standards of business conduct in our EHQHWV EDVHG RQ ORFDO ODZV FXVWRP DQG PDUNHW SUDFWLFH dealings with our suppliers: Details of the Groups principal pension schemes are set out LQ QRWH WR WKH QDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV X encourage suppliers to adopt similar principles and standards of business conduct to Victrexs own: Largely as a result of the above approach, Victrex has low X where appropriate, collaborate with our suppliers to increase voluntary employee turnover: 3.3% in 2012 2011: 3.3%.
WKH SHUIRUPDQFH TXDOLW DQG HIFLHQF RI WKH VXSSO FKDLQ Business ethics X adhere to the contract terms agreed with suppliers: and We have a formal global ethics policy which incorporates X encourage our suppliers to meet Victrexs own safety, the Groups key principles and standards governing business health and environmental standards.
conduct towards our key stakeholder groups.
We believe that we should treat all of these groups with honesty and integrity.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Victrex plc 29
