Directors Report: Review of the year Sustainability Review The Group considers sustainability to be a key part of its strategy and recognises its importance in delivering shareholder value.
Our sustainability approach is embedded in our business through six key areas.
Sustainability matters to Weir because our employees, customers, suppliers and investors want to work for, do The Group has six sustainability priorities: business with, supply and own a business that operates safely, ethically, fairly and in a way that minimises environmental impact.
ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES Sustainability is an important part of how the Group To reduce our energy use To attract and retain the best operates and we seek to deliver our strategy and business and carbon footprint employees model in a way that can contribute to reducing negative environmental impacts and assists the communities HEALTH & SAFETY COMMUNITIES in which we do business.
To maintain a safe and To invest in the communities healthy workplace where we operate Environment ISO 14001 PRODUCTS AND ETHICS All our continuing operations are ISO 14001 To conduct our business TECHNOLOGY accredited, or will be by the end of 2013, apart from responsibly and ethically To optimise the energy efficiency new acquisitions where a plan is put in place to achieve of our products and supply of accreditation during the integration process.
ISO 14001 products to low carbon industries is an internationally recognised specication for an environmental management system which helps To nd out more about these six areas, including detailed case studies, organisations to meet environmental and economic visit weir.
co. uk sustainability goals as well as assisting in the implementation of environmental policy.
It provides assurance that our environmental performance meets and will continue to meet legal and environmental policy requirements.
The Weir Group reports on its Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Carbon footprint as dened in the GHG Protocol.
Scope 3 is an optional The Weir Group is an energy intensive business, reporting category.
Emissions are reported as tonnes due to its requirement for electricity and gas for of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e. 2 industrial manufacturing and service operations across a global footprint.
A proportion of our data is derived, or partly derived, from estimates and we are always working to improve Since 2011, the Groups operating companies have been the accuracy and completeness of our data.
In 2013, identifying and implementing three carbon emission the Group intends to undertake a review of its reduction projects on a rolling basis, adding new projects greenhouse gas policy and reporting practices, as each is completed.
taking into consideration the mandatory reporting requirements due to be introduced under the Our carbon emissions are reported in accordance Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Reports with the principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Regulations 2013.
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol developed by the World Business The Groups total carbon footprint from 2010 to 2012 Council for Sustainable Development and the World is shown on the opposite page.
The Groups absolute Resources Institute.
The GHG Protocol categorises emissions have increased year on year.
However, since emissions as follows: 2010 the Group has made some significant acquisitions, including Weir Linatex, Seaboard and Novatech.
The Scope 1 Direct emissions impact of acquisitions on the emissions of the Group as These are emissions for which businesses are a whole can be seen in the chart, with acquisitions since directly responsible.
The increase in emissions is also attributable to the growth of the Scope 2 Electricity indirect emissions Group during the period and its increased output.
The These are emissions from the electricity that a Groups emissions by turnover remain constant with 2011. company buys to use in its equipment or operations.
This is, in part, due to the activity mix of our business with high demand in the primary manufacturing areas Scope 3 Other indirect emissions of foundry production and machining during 2012.
These are emissions from activities that are relevant to a company, but not within its direct control, for example, transport in vehicles not owned by the company.
46 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Total emissions Total emissions by turnover I CO tonnes 000 tCO e m 2 2 200 100 186 165 82 158 80 II 150 148 72 72 133 60 100 40 50 20 III 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Acquisitions Continuing Operations IV The majority of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions Charitable donations come from electricity and gas use at our facilities, with The total charitable donations of Group companies electricity accounting for 67% of the total emissions during the financial year was 503,011 2011: 422,300, in 2012 2011: 67%.
Our foundries, the most energy as shown below.
intensive areas of our operations, produced 64,000 tCO e in 2012, which equates to 35% of the Groups 2 Charitable donations total emissions.
Community 71% Foundry recycling Education 20% The Groups five foundries recycled nearly 16,000 tonnes Health 9% of metal in our foundry operations in 2012.
This means that around 51% of the metal poured at our foundries is recycled.
Foundry recycling 000 tonnes 20 The Weir Code of Conduct prohibits political 17.9 contributions and no political donations were 15.8 15 14.5 made during the period.
10 Products and technology 5 4.9 3.8 1.4 Our products and services aim to meet customer 1.6 1.2 1.2 0.9 2.4 2.5 demands and their corporate sustainability goals, Metal Scrap metal Metal Timber recycled purchased recycled recycled through reducing energy and water usage and the internally from customers to third party production of waste materials.
Many of the Groups products and services are used in low carbon 2010 2011 2012 applications such as nuclear and renewables power generation.
The Engineering Excellence Committee Health and safety continually seeks to enhance energy efficiency through The Environment, Health and Safety Excellence the design, research and manufacturing process and Committee drives good Group-wide health and safety product usage in customer operations.
The Group is committed to a zero accident workplace.
For more information on health and safety, Ethics see page 21 or go to weir.
The Weir Code of Conduct establishes clear guidelines and standards of business behaviour for employees.
Employees Supporting the Code is the ethics hotline and antiRecruiting, retaining and developing the best people bribery and corruption training.
The Code also explains is at the heart of Weirs sustainability as a business.
the high human rights standards to which the Group This is encouraged through access to opportunities to works.
More information on the Groups activity to progress, competitive and fair working conditions, and promote ethical behaviour is on pages 63 to 65 of the an open culture where issues can be raised, discussed Corporate Governance report.
For more information, see Our People on page 22.
Communities We believe we have an enduring obligation to invest in local communities and minimise any environmental impact on the areas where we operate.
As a global business, our operating businesses have the discretion to invest in their local communities in the areas of greatest need.
Broadly, the Group seeks to support health and education projects, given their potential to provide lasting benets.
For recent examples of these projects, go to weir.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 47
