Directors Report: Review of the year Our People Pauline Lafferty Director of Human Resources The following principles guide our approach to our employees.
We seek to: The Group recognises that motivated, ensure no form of prejudice stands in the way skilled and effective people are of development or promotion opportunities: encourage, invest in and support our employees imperative to our business, with talent to achieve their potential: development an important element in identify the training and development needs of employees and nd ways to full those requirements: extending our global capability and use the Weir Group Personal Development Plan PDP sustaining profitable growth.
We are to identify and develop high potential individuals: employ and retain people who share our values and committed to attracting and retaining behaviours and actively discourage those who do not: the best people and developing them work to maintain a business environment where individuals feel valued and respected: to achieve their full potential.
provide development opportunities to internationally mobile employees by encouraging overseas appointments: support individuals in developing and expanding their roles.
During 2012, a growing number of internal candidates made the transition to senior and middle management roles.
This success is the first evidence that the important steps put in place in 2011 to establish a comprehensive management and leadership development framework for the Group is providing a talent pipeline capable of supporting the present and future needs of the business.
The framework identies and targets three key career development phases.
Programmes are delivered to employees at each relevant stage with development and management tools designed to support and enhance Weirs strategic objectives and organisational culture.
Participants in the programmes are identied and selected by business unit and senior management based on alignment to The Weir Way values and behaviours.
More information on these values is available at weir.
In addition to the Group-managed programmes listed below, many local learning and development programmes are rolled out on an ongoing basis.
Weir Leadership Programme The Weir Leadership Programme WLP develops high performing leaders and strategic awareness, creating alignment with Weirs strategic agenda and leveraging its effective delivery.
Programme participants are drawn from the Senior Management Group SMG with over 150 senior managers taking part so far.
The SMG is a group of around 300 senior employees with frontline responsibility for the development and delivery of the Groups strategy.
The programme is designed around practical business challenges.
Peers from across the Groups operations collaborate and support each other in facilitated learning groups.
22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I PEOPLE MATTER Graduate Development Framework II III IV Weir Business Management Programme Designed in conjunction with a leading business school, ERICA SNIDER the Weir Business Management Programme WBMP develops the 2011 pilot Emerging Leaders Programme.
The WBMP delivers core business management skills ROTATIONAL and covers critical areas including leading people in organisations, financial management, commercial ENGINEER awareness, operations management, innovation and project management.
Completion of the programme leads to a postgraduate Certicate in Management I joined the Graduate Development and the opportunity to obtain a Masters in Business Administration.
More than 50 managers from the Groups Framework at Weir SPM in January global operations have participated in this programme.
2012, starting in sustaining engineering Graduate Development Framework where I learned about our product During 2012, Weir recruited a total of 75 graduates across line using computer models and doing the Group from a variety of professional disciplines.
The Graduate Development Framework provides a consistent hands-on assembly in pump school.
development programme to give graduates within Weir a broad knowledge and understanding of the business.
In field engineering I helped During that week, I saw the In 2012, two groups of more than 20 graduates attended service our pumps at a frac embodiment of Weir values in my a six day induction course in Scotland.
site with the customers crew colleagues: valuing people, working and saw how our products are together, leadership, and integrity.
Weir University used in fracking operations.
I left with a greater understanding The Weir University was established in 2011 to provide all I am responsible for documenting of how The Weir Way embraces employees with online access to continuous professional the performance, operating innovation and collaboration across development resources.
This virtual resource is continuously conditions, and investigation the global community.
enhanced and during 2012 modules were added in findings of prototype fluid ends business ethics Code of Conduct, project management, in field trials.
I have completed As I approach completion of marketing and procurement.
These are in addition to the investigative disassemblies and the first half of the programme, range of courses and materials supporting Weirs areas magnetic particle inspections of I have discovered the high level of of technological competitive advantage, including the trial units.
I participated in the support Weir offers for my personal metallurgy, failure analysis, corrosion and nite element examination of selected fractures development.
The Weir University enables the consistent to determine initiation points and so many areas of the company this application of identical learning opportunities worldwide failure modes at the University early in my career has taught me with employee user numbers continuing to increase.
First, intellect, merit, resources available to engineering and capability are valued by Weir.
Succession planning teams within the Group through the Second, the Weir values are upheld The leadership development initiatives rolled out in 2011 Weir Advanced Research Centre.
universally across all industries, served to establish a robust management and leadership locations, companies, and cultures.
This framework contributed While in Scotland, I attended the Looking ahead to my final year of to the Groups succession planning process across its Weir Group Graduate Development the programme, I will be involved businesses.
In 2012, 44% of senior management group Programme and participated in in aftermarket operations at an appointments were internal.
team-building and personal SPM service centre and I will development activities with gain cross-divisional exposure in In 2013, more staff will benefit from our talent development colleagues from six countries research and development and framework as we begin the rotation of our graduate drawn from all three divisions new product introduction activities programme throughout our global network.
This process of the Weir Group.
begins when we deliver the programme in Bangalore, India, allowing our graduates to see our Indian facilities and engage with our 200 strong Indian engineering science team.
We will also undertake Group-wide initiatives to better gauge the alignment and commitment of our employees to delivering the Groups objectives.
The results will determine a range of actions to develop employee engagement and empower employees to continually improve customer satisfaction.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 23 Directors Report: Review of the year Operational Review Weir Minerals Dean Jenkins, Divisional Managing Director Key priorities and progress in 2012 During 2012, the division has continued Expand global production capacity to focus on leveraging its sector-leading Double digit capacity increases in Chilean and European market presence to drive sales of a foundry operations to support growth, with planning broader range of solutions to customers, underway for further global foundry expansion.
Capacity added in Europe, Mexico and South Africa as technological innovation continued to support the broader product range, with investment to develop our product portfolio.
in infrastructure and tooling to support comminution products and rubber lining systems.
Order input Revenue Operating profit Actions undertaken to align divisional capability with global customer demand.
1,322m 1,334m 256m Continue to drive market share in ancillary 7% 12% 21% products and services Linatex product developments supporting increased cross-selling.
Strong growth in slurry transportation ancillaries.
Good revenue performance from organically developed screens range.
Take product innovation to new areas within the mill circuit Organic development of screen media and mechanical seals.
significant materials development for minerals and oil sands markets with new hard chrome white irons and oil sands hose technologies.
New Multio Highwall pump launched for dewatering applications.
Build further on the collaborative successes of the Oil & Gas Forum to develop new products and services Gladiator Slurry Pump designed and launched with Minerals materials technology contributing to enhanced product wear life.
Swellable packers for oil and gas downhole drilling applications developed using Minerals elastomer technology and gaining market acceptance.
Linatex frac discharge hose designed for frac slurry transportation with independent testing showing greater abrasion resistance than competitor products.
24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown I Minerals 81% South America 25% Industrial 7% North America 20% Oil & Gas 6% Middle East Africa 18% II Power Generation 4% Australia 16% Other 2% Europe 11% Asia-Pacic 10% III IV Market review Order input increased by 7% to 1,322m 2011: 1,239m.
Global ore production increased by an estimated 3% Original equipment orders grew 3% with growth weighted in 2012, underpinned by continued demand growth in to the first half of the year.
Aftermarket orders grew Chinese and emerging markets for key commodities such 10%, with the growth rate recovering in the fourth as copper.
Average ore yields continued to fall, requiring quarter following third quarter destocking in Australia greater levels of processing to maintain the same volume and Brasil.
Aftermarket orders represented 60% of total of rened commodity and further supporting aftermarket input 2011: 58%.
Linked to new project activity, the division continued Capital expenditure in the mining sector in 2012 remained to experience good levels of demand for slurry pumps.
ahead of the historically high levels seen in 2011, with over Aftermarket input strengthened across a range of 65bn committed to a number of greeneld developments commodities with the benets of a large and growing and browneld expansions, a 9% increase on 2011 installed base reected in 10% order growth in slurry despite new project activity cooling off from the peak seen pump spares and strong input trends across a larger in the first half of the year.
Prices remained above incentive aftermarket portfolio including several multi-million levels for most key commodities during the year.
Second pound orders for cyclones and valves in South America half macro-economic concerns over Europe and China and Canada and a multi-million pound hose contract resulted in commodity price falls, particularly in iron ore for a Latin American project.
The division also grew and coal markets, leading to the deferral of some project its presence in the screen machine and screen decisions in Australia and Brasil.
Industrial unrest media market, benefiting from investment in localised impacted activity in South Africa in the second half of the manufacturing.
The first major contract awards for year.
Elsewhere, conditions in key minerals regions were Linatex wear resistant lined valves and cyclones were positive.
Buoyant activity levels continued in South received for one of the worlds largest mineral sands America and the rest of Africa, driven by copper and gold projects in East Africa, a highlight of a strong overall projects.
Weir has benefited from its exposure to these 2012 performance in the African market.
markets accounted for 53% of input 2011: 47% with order growth from South American and African The completion of existing oil sands projects and resulting markets rising by 18% and 30% respectively.
increases in production levels supported activity in North America, although new project activity levels were low, Revenue increased by 12% to 1,334m 2011: 1,195m.
reecting the emerging price discount of Canadian heavy Original equipment sales increased 9% and accounted oil compared to the WTI benchmark price as a result of for 40% of revenues 2011: 41% with second half sales transportation constraints.
broadly matching the prior year record.
Productiondriven aftermarket revenues increased by 13%.
Operational performance A record financial performance from the division was Operating profit increased by 21% to 256m 2011: 211m underpinned by broadly positive conditions in most mining as the division benefited from strong revenue growth and markets and continued success in the delivery of its margin expansion.
Capital investment levels supported further growth in the installed base of slurry pumps, with Operating margin increased to 19.2% 2011: 17.7% new project commissioning benefiting production volumes and was ahead of expectations reecting the strengthening and increasing levels of aftermarket demand.
Targeted aftermarket revenue mix alongside benets from procurement capacity addition and product localisation has supported initiatives, productivity gains and effective cost control.
growth in the divisions broad range of ancillary products In the second half of the year margins were also supported and services.
This growth has been supported by by targeted cost and headcount reductions in Brasil and expansion of the sales and service footprint, a key source Australia, the markets hardest hit by falling coal and iron of market differentiation, with 13 new sites opened ore prices, with total one-off costs of 4m incurred in the worldwide.
Service capability has also been enhanced year 2011: 1m.
through investment in local machining capability and technical skills to support the growing product portfolio.
The division enhanced its differentiated technology position during the year with a number of advances in materials technology at our global research centres which will contribute to prolonged wear resistance in customers critical applications.
Minerals research and development efforts were also at the heart of major product launches for oil and gas markets.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 25 Directors Report: Review of the year Operational Review Weir Minerals continued PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION WORLDWIDE Material matters Harsh mining environments test processing equipment to its limits.
Poor material selection and hydraulic design leads to shortened product life and loss of productivity, often directly affecting the customers bottom line.
Improving the wear life of materials At the heart of many Weir Minerals Our scientists have found new is a daily focus at Weir Minerals products are High Chrome White ways to incorporate carbides Technology Centres.
These R&D Irons twice as hard as stainless significantly harder than chromium centres focus on extending steel with many times the wear carbide, a breakthrough in creating customer productivity by creating resistance in abrasive mining alloys with substantially improved new materials such as wear applications.
At our Materials wear resistance.
And were also resistant alloys and elastomers.
Development Technology Centre addressing the one Achilles heel They also strive to develop the in Sydney, Australia, one of the of chrome irons their brittleness deepest technical understanding worlds foremost chrome-iron by developing a process to create in the market of the factors that materials scientists is leading the material that has greater ductility affect material wear.
development of a new ultra-wear than ever before.
This creates resistant alloy alongside other the possibility of using truly wear leading experts.
resistant alloys in applications that traditionally required a compromise between wear resistance and toughness.
This research work directly supports the Groups goal Materials scientists developing of lowering customers total cost chrome irons at the Materials of ownership.
Other recent innovations include the development of A238, which is a member of the hyperchrome alloy family.
Designed specifically for the Canadian oil sands, this new alloy has already been successfully trialled in an aggressive application in one of the worlds harshest mining environments.
WHEN A DAYS LOST PRODUCTION COSTS MILLIONS OF POUNDS, MATERIAL MATTERS 26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Revenue Operating profit I 1,334m 256m 12% 21% II 2012 1,334 2012 256 1,195 211 2011 2011 2010 894 2010 174 III 2011 and 2010 restated at 2012 average exchange rates.
IV Investment Outlook The division has invested throughout 2012 in value chain Weir Minerals remains well positioned to benefit from development with the focus on enhancing production the strong long term market fundamentals in mining and capacity and aligning global capability to customer needs minerals processing, underpinned by urbanisation in and divisional growth plans.
Capital expenditure was emerging markets and their demand for raw materials.
50m 2011: 49m as investment was made in foundry This ongoing demand, coupled with declining ore and wear resistant lining production, as well as expansion grades, supports continued substantial investment of the leading global sales and service footprint.
Research above historic levels by miners over the coming years, and development spend increased by 22% to 13m as although the medium term nature of capital investment the division continued to develop its materials technology may increasingly focus on browneld and production positions and supported collaborative innovation efforts optimisation projects with absolute industry capital across the Group.
expenditure levels expected to remain above 2010 levels.
Global ore production is expected to grow by over 3% In Chile, foundry expansion added 25% extra capacity per annum through to 2015, supporting aftermarket to capture growth opportunities in South American products and services growth.
markets in core products and wear resistant linings.
In Europe, an extension of the UK foundry operation In 2013 we expect mining capex to decline relative to is newly complete, with the installation of a fast-loop 2012 but remain at levels supportive of the continued employing hi-tech manufacturing processes adding expansion of the installed base.
While fewer greeneld around 1520% additional production capacity to projects are expected to reach order point compared to support the broader product portfolio and global the run rate in the first half of 2012, we expect a number demand.
In Malaysia, agreement was reached to of browneld expansions as miners focus on maximising acquire a low cost foundry to support demand in returns from existing production assets.
With the order Asia-Pacic while planning advanced for further mix continuing to shift towards aftermarket products investment in North American foundry capacity.
and services, market forecasts of positive ore production volume growth and a continuing focus on increasing Investment in the organic growth of a screens range our market share of ancillary products and services and screen media has continued, with expansion mean that we anticipate good growth in shorter cycle of a screens design centre in South Africa.
Together with delivery of a strong the local design and production of mechanical seals opening order book, this is expected to result in higher commenced, providing a valuable low cost product 2013 revenues and operating profits.
After a stronger source for the division.
than expected second half 2012 margin performance, operating margins are expected to be at a broadly similar There were new service centres added to the Minerals level to 2012 as the business balances the benets from service footprint during 2012 in the US, South Africa, the growing aftermarket mix alongside sensible cost Russia, Scandinavia, Spain, Turkey, the Netherlands, control and continued investment in its growth plans.
Colombia and Australia, extending opportunities to better support customers and provide ancillary products Key priorities in 2013: and services.
Develop global foundry capacity to meet aftermarket demand Weir Minerals has also added around 250 employees during the year to support growth plans.
Invest in comminution process knowledge and materials wear technology Reduce lead times and working capital through global supply chain initiatives Continue development of Minerals and Oil & Gas product portfolios through collaboration and innovation The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 27 Directors Report: Review of the year Operational Review Weir Oil & Gas Steve Noon, Divisional Managing Director The completed integration of Seaboard diversies the divisions exposure within the upstream sector and The division continued to successfully Novatech enhances the aftermarket offering delivered pursue its strategic objectives in 2012 by Weir Oil & Gas through a growing, market-leading service network.
Mathena, Inc, acquired at the end of despite challenging pressure-pumping the calendar year, extends the pressure control capability market conditions.
to the drilling phase of the well lifecycle, enabling the division to provide drilling, completion and production solutions and to benefit from the technology requirements of increasing environmental and safety regulation.
Order input Revenue Operating profit Key priorities and progress in 2012 677m 844m 211m Delivering on capacity expansion -22% 13% 14% Expanded ow production capacity in the US and Canada, with aligned investment in broadening and deepening the North American service offering.
Completed rapid response manufacturing centre in Dubai and built a dedicated facility in Abu Dhabi to meet expected demand growth in tubular repairs and valves.
Opened API and ISO accredited service facility in Basra to cater for the growing oileld equipment market needs of international oil companies in Iraq.
Acquisition integration and effectively capturing synergy opportunities Integration activities completed on schedule for Seaboard and Novatech, with Seaboards North American and international growth opportunities validated and detailed action plans in place.
New product development Launched five new products for upstream markets, developed by the Oil & Gas Forum, focused on meeting customer demand for longer life products in shale applications, including the Stampede swellable packer and SPM Duralast uid end.
Broadened pressure control portfolio with the development by Weir Oil & Gas Dubai of a DNV certied manifold for major oileld service customers.
Successful launch of bundled aftermarket offering, reducing operational complexity for customers.
Completion of downstream restructuring Production of all overhung and single stage vertical pumps underway at fully operational Polish value engineering centre.
Low cost supply chain established.
28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown I Oil & Gas 99% North America 72% Industrial 1% Middle East Africa 11% Europe 11% II Asia-Pacic 3% South America 2% Australia 1% III IV Market review products for customers, with annual commitments In North American pressure-pumping markets, the dual secured from a number of large service companies.
effects of US natural gas prices falling below economic Outside North America, international opportunities incentive levels and relatively high, stable oil prices continue to progress, with like for like upstream resulted in a shift of drilling and completion activity from international input growing by over a third during the dry gas to oil and liquids rich shale formations.
Good progress was made by the Middle East year, US horizontal gas-directed rig count declined by Service operations with the award of a number of 43% while horizontal oil and liquids rig count increased significant contracts including a multi-million pound by around 28% with total US land rig count falling by 13%.
rotating equipment maintenance contract for the A decline was seen in customer activity over the final refurbishment of the Rumaila oileld in Iraq.
Downstream quarter of the year as 2012 drilling and completion operations delivered a much improved performance budgets were exhausted.
on last year due to the first benets of the completed restructuring of the operations.
Advances in technology continue to reduce the time required to drill and complete a well, with the number Order input at 677m 2011: 870m was 22% lower and of wells drilled outstripping the movement in average rig 41% lower like for like due to weakness in pressure-pumping count, supporting demand for pressure control equipment markets.
Original equipment input fell 44% and 66% like providers.
In pressure-pumping, analysts estimate that for like as pressure-pumping demand fell sharply as a result frac equipment utilisation rates had fallen to around of frac pump overcapacity.
Aftermarket input was up 5% 1 75% by the end of 2012 with total North American frac but down 12% like for like with strong growth in Services demand of around 13 million horsepower at the end of offset by lower aftermarket pressure-pumping orders.
Like for like upstream business input SPM and Mesa Aftermarket activity was also impacted, with overstocking fell 51% to 359m US$569m, with quarterly order levels of uid ends in anticipation of higher activity and lower broadly at since the second quarter against the background equipment utilisation and service intensity, leading to of a declining rig count.
A total of US$139m of 2011 orders pricing pressure in specic product categories.
Demand were cancelled in the year and reected as an opening in international pressure-pumping markets grew strongly orderbook adjustment.
Input from Seaboard was up on during the year with 38% growth in the frac eet outside the equivalent pre-acquisition period although growth 1 North America to 4.4m horsepower.
moderated in the second half as market activity levels fell.
Middle East services markets grew strongly, with Strong input growth was achieved at downstream and increased Saudi production and the ongoing rebuilding Service operations, with Middle East Services benefiting of Iraqi oileld infrastructure.
In downstream markets, from an enhanced operational presence and increased pricing pressure in original equipment markets began activity levels in Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
Improving to ease with good market opportunities in the FPSO conditions in downstream markets contributed to higher Floating Production, Storage and Ofoading sector.
original equipment orders including a strategic contract in the FPSO market.
Operational performance The division has delivered a resilient financial Revenue increased 13% to 844m 2011: 747m, but performance, maintaining overall margins despite fast was down 10% like for like with equivalent upstream changing market conditions.
In a challenging North revenues of 511m US$810m 2011: US$982m in line American upstream environment, operational capability with expectations.
Seaboard revenues increased 10% and capacity was rapidly aligned to market needs.
on the pre-acquisition period while Novatech revenues The division grew its market share in certain product declined, reecting pressure-pumping market conditions.
segments despite lower overall activity levels, and the Service and downstream revenues grew by 25%.
integrations of the Seaboard and Novatech acquisitions were completed, with plans developed to internationalise Operating profit including joint ventures increased by both businesses and to enter the frac owback market.
14% to 211m 2011: 185m but fell 12% on a like for like Weirs  operations SPM, basis.
Seaboard and Novatech contributed 45m before Mesa and Novatech responded quickly to changing integration costs of 3m 2011 acquisition and integration market conditions by reducing headcount, in-sourcing costs: 5m, 10% higher than the equivalent pre-acquisition machining and implementing lean initiatives and cost period.
Total one-off costs of 4m were incurred in the reduction programmes.
Total annualised cost savings year 2011: 11m.
Good profit progression at Service from these initiatives were c. US$25m.
The expanded operations and a positive downstream profit performance aftermarket pressure-pumping portfolio has enabled also contributed.
the successful bundling of SPM, Mesa and Novatech 1.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 29 Directors Report: Review of the year Operational Review Weir Oil & Gas continued PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION WORLDWIDE Cradle to grave asset management When equipment used in the upstream oil and gas markets needs to be replaced, it has to happen quickly or it affects the customers bottom line.
Through its focus on equipment used for market through one dedicated regional critical applications, Weir understands contact.
This provides customers with this better than most.
We dont simply the best local response and range of manufacture the equipment, we ensure aftermarket products and services by working in partnership with customers delivered through the largest service that it can enhance the application and we and sales network in the North American provide service and engineering expertise market.
By leveraging the large installed to optimise performance throughout the base of SPM pumps and incorporating life of the installed base of equipment.
Novatech and Mesa into the pressureThe aim is to lower operational cost and pumping service network, the team has complexity for our customers.
enjoyed success by bundling pump expendables from the full aftermarket Weir Oil & Gas has built the leading product portfolio and growing sales service presence in North American at the point of use.
The ongoing shale plays, recognising that customer development of the Weir business model proximity is critical in an industry where in upstream markets has enabled us to downtime can cost millions.
During 2012, gain market share in tough conditions, the development of a focused aftermarket grow aftermarket revenues and, most pressure-pumping team has taken the full importantly, improve our agility in offering of SPM, Novatech and Mesa to responding to customer demands.
CRADLE TO GRAVE ASSET MANAGEMENT DEVELOPING A LEADING BUSINESS MODEL IN THE NEED IT NOW UPSTREAM MARKETS 30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Revenue Operating profit I 844m 211m 13% 14% II 2012 844 2012 211 747 185 2011 2011 2010 449 2010 114 III 2011 and 2010 restated at 2012 average exchange rates.
IV Operating margin of 25.0% 2011: 24.8% increased Pressure-pumping markets are expected to remain year on year, with upstream margins resilient despite competitive in 2013 and our pressure-pumping business challenging pressure-pumping markets, an improved unit SPM, Mesa and Novatech entered the year with a performance in downstream and Service businesses, considerably lower orderbook than the prior year period.
On a like for like basis, margins Minimal levels of original equipment capex are expected of 25.1% were down 40bps and in line with expectations.
throughout 2013 with material overcapacity continuing The division reacted quickly to the changing pressureto affect frac pump demand.
With low single digit rig pumping market conditions by introducing a range count growth forecast, aftermarket input is expected of efficiency and cost reduction measures to preserve to progressively increase as customers work through profitability.
Underlying margins at Seaboard and inventory levels.
Novatech were in line with the divisional average, representing a 180bps improvement on the equivalent In pressure control, Seaboard is expected to make pre-acquisition period.
good progress, as the business seeks to benefit from the organic growth opportunities available in frac rental, frac Investment owback and international markets.
Additional geographic Weir Oil & Gas supported its growth plans during 2012 growth opportunities also exist for Mathenas product with capital expenditure of 52m 2011: 32m.
Weir range through the divisions leading service network.
SPM invested in ow capacity expansion and the division also invested in integration projects at Seaboard and At the Middle East Services businesses Iraqi and Saudi Novatech.
In response to the lower demand environment Arabian markets are expected to be particularly strong.
in North America, the previously announced US$75m A continuation of the improved downstream performance expansion of Weir SPM was reduced to less than US$60m.
The division continued to invest in extending its In total, divisional revenues including Mathena are manufacturing and service footprint, completing rapid expected to be slightly lower year on year with underlying response manufacturing centres in Canada and Dubai operating margins broadly in line with 2012 as exposure and opening new service centres in Williston, North to pressure-pumping falls to around 50% of divisional Dakota: Pleasanton, Texas: Singapore: and Basra, Iraq.
revenues c. 15% of Group revenues.
Overall spending on research and development increased Key priorities in 2013 by 46% to 8m as the division seeks to maintain the strong Develop aftermarket business model and new product development momentum established in 2012. bundling strategy in pressure-pumping unit Employees have been added across the division at those businesses with strongest opportunities for growth, Continue momentum in new product development although headcount at the pressure-pumping focused operations was reduced in response to the lower Capture Seaboard domestic and international demand environment.
The division continues to attract growth opportunities quality people from the oil and gas industry as well as developing and promoting internal talent.
Leadership Capitalise on growth opportunities in development, business management and rotational Saudi Arabia and Iraq graduate programmes have effectively supported the talent pipeline, matching skills needs to growth plans.
Integrate and realise the benets expected Outlook from the Mathena acquisition The medium term outlook for global pressure-pumping and pressure control markets remains positive, with continued Enhance pressure control offering investment in North American shale plays by national and in North American upstream markets international oil companies.
A relatively high and stable oil price should support continuing North American production increases as the US pursues energy independence.
Low Increase supply chain exibility and reduce US gas prices are expected to support increased US working capital gas red power and industrial demand as US businesses benefit from the competitiveness of lower energy input costs.
International shale development is expected to continue to grow, with Russia, China, Argentina, North Africa, Saudi Arabia and Australia becoming larger markets over the next two to three years.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 31 Directors Report: Review of the year Operational Review Weir Power & Industrial Kevin Spencer, Divisional Managing Director Key priorities and progress in 2012 Despite depressed markets in 2012, Improving cost competitiveness through increased product localisation in India, South Korea and China Weir Power & Industrial demonstrated good progress during the year, as Selected valve product transfers to India and China momentum built behind the divisions well underway.
South Korean input more than doubled.
Over 30% of valve output sourced from low cost countries.
Order input Revenue Operating profit Capitalising on a broader product range and 361m 323m 31m increased routes to market through a fully 18% 7% 20% integrated sales structure Overall input up 18%.
Emerging market sales hub input up 73%.
Consistent customer relationship management system established, enhancing communication, collaboration and sales and operational planning.
Expanding presence in oil and gas end markets Oil and gas market revenues up 28%.
Joint marketing initiatives with Weir Oil & Gas established.
Developing competitive advantage through product innovation Input from new product initiatives more than doubled.
Order secured for design, manufacture and qualication of pressure relief valves for the worlds first fourth generation nuclear reactor in China.
Differentiated design developed in nuclear severe service and control and choke valve ranges.
A new range of steam safety valves, STARSTEAM, developed for overpressure protection of power boilers.
Market review Nuclear new build activity in the US and Europe remained on hold as post-Fukushima safety reviews concluded, with activity throughout the year centred on Asia-Pacic, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, where Korean EPCs won a number of major projects.
Nuclear maintenance and repair markets were positive in the US and the UK, which, together with increased CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine new build activity in North America, provided some mitigation against lower nuclear new build activity.
In North America, low economic growth and power prices led to project cancellations and difficult trading conditions in general industrial, power and hydro markets although a number of hydro project opportunities emerged towards the end of the year.
While European renewables markets continued to be subdued, the division gained traction towards the end of the year in international projects.
32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown I Power 60% North America 36% Industrial 14% Europe 30% Oil & Gas 12% Asia-Pacic 27% II Other 12% Middle East Africa 6% Minerals 2% South America 1% III IV Operational performance global valves platform.
The opening of a sales ofce The strategic focus of the division during 2012 has been in Seoul, South Korea provides additional traction within driving input and orderbook growth, with restructuring the Asia-Pacic region for our control valve, service and of the valves businesses undertaken in order to develop speciality pump businesses.
Investment in research and a strong and unied global platform for the valves portfolio.
At the same time, initiatives to enhance operational performance and improve margins have gained momentum, Outlook with further leverage of the low cost supply chain and Global macro-economic concerns continue to slow additional supply chain actions underway across the the recovery of general industrial markets with an manufacturing operations.
expected improvement in global power markets leading to increased service and aftermarket demand.
Several Order input increased by 18% to 361m 2011: 306m major Korean nuclear and conventional domestic power with strong growth from valves and service operations.
plant projects are proceeding in 2013 and Korean EPCs Nuclear input of 72m 2011: 71m included a multicontinue to successfully capture global opportunities.
million pound project award from a Korean EPC for Weir is well positioned to benefit through its global nuclear service control valves in new build reactors in presence and its broadened valve range, including good the Middle East.
Overall, control valve orders more than control valve opportunities.
As the business continues doubled, benefiting from momentum in strategic growth to expand internationally we see an increasing range of initiatives and a strong first full year performance by opportunities for the renewables operations.
Low levels of activity in North America also expects to benefit from targeting the aftermarket affected the US commercial valve business in the second opportunities of the large valve installed base outside half of the year while Weir American Hydro secured a North America.
Strategic initiatives are expected number of multi-million dollar orders from major North to support increased organic growth, particularly American power companies for rehabilitation, turbine in Asia-Pacic and the oil and gas sector.
runner replacement and related eld service work, including the Nine Mile Dam hydro project towards the The financial performance in 2013 is expected to benefit end of the period.
European input was up year on year from a strong opening orderbook, steadily improving despite difficult economic conditions in the eurozone.
power markets, continuing momentum in strategic Aftermarket input of 168m 2011: 146m benefited from initiatives and ongoing operational excellence actions valve and service opportunities.
The proportion of orders resulting in revenue and profit growth with margins from power markets was 60% 2011: 57%, with input broadly in line with 2012. from the oil and gas market growing by 12% year on year.
Input from the Middle East, Africa and Asia Key priorities in 2013 increased by over 30%.
Embed global valve structure and drive global sales hub performance Revenue increased by 7% to 323m 2011: 301m with a strong full year contribution from Weir International in South Korea.
Like for like revenues were up 5% with Further leverage valve aftermarket opportunities revenues from emerging markets increasing by 11% as the division benets from its increased routes to market.
Develop operational capabilities to support higher activity levels Operating profit increased by 20% to 31m 2011: 26m, 1% like for like, benefiting from strong revenue Internationalise hydro, wind and power growth in the valve operations and a first full year service offerings contribution from Weir International.
Operating margin increased to 9.7% 2011: 8.7% Continue expansion in oil and gas markets benefiting from measures to improve cost competitiveness alongside a reduction in one-off Continue new product development and costs, which totalled 1m 2011: 5m.
product extension Investment Capital expenditure of 19m 2011: 13m included a new Montreal service centre for North American hydro operations and the consolidation in July of the US valve production facilities in a single facility at Ipswich, Massachusetts supporting the creation of a unied The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 33 Directors Report: Review of the year Operational Review Weir Power & Industrial continued PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION WORLDWIDE Global capability DESIGNED IN THE UK.
BUILT AND DELIVERED BY WEIRS GLOBAL CAPABILITY 34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Revenue Operating profit I 323m 31m 7% 20% II 2012 323 2012 31 301 26 2011 2011 2010 241 2010 26 III 2011 and 2010 restated at 2012 average exchange rates.
IV As drilling for oil ventures into deeper waters and power station technology becomes more efficient, operating pressures rise.
Weirs severe service control valves Product development was undertaken cope with the demands placed at the divisions UK valve facility in on equipment by the high pressure Elland, with sourcing of material and drops required to reach the correct manufacturing methods drawn from processing conditions in power around our global operations.
Flow stations and oil and gas drilling.
testing took place on a customdesigned rig in the engineering The X-Stream trim for severe service laboratory of the University of valves was launched in late 2011.
Huddersfield with the outcome Designed to provide greater control validating the products position of pressure drops whilst reducing in the high value, high end technical noise and erosion, the process of performance control valve segment.
taking this innovation to market demonstrates the value of Weirs The product has been launched global capability.
through the divisions recently established global sales hubs, with more than 100 orders received for installations worldwide, including in North and South America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
A customer-focused innovation delivered through global expertise.
The X-Stream trim The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 35
