1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Directors report and business review Social and environmental matters Social and environmental matters We continue to operate a robust corporate responsibility CR Against the background of our audit programme, we continue to programme that is closely aligned to the Group strategy.
The focus on engagement with key suppliers to support them as they management of social and environmental matters is embedded seek to improve their performance.
This engagement is currently into day-to-day operations across the business.
This year we focused on improving worker representation in factories.
were delighted to retain a Platinum ranking in the annual Although the project seeks to address a challenging issue the Business in the Community CR Index.
lack of formal worker representation in China many factory managers are keen to get involved in the project, seeing it as an We operate our CR programme through four key areas: opportunity to improve staff morale and consequently improve Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
Our CR staff retention rates in a competitive labour market.
During the strategy is based on ensuring that we effectively manage the year, we held workshops for suppliers in northern China to environmental and social issues which are material to the Group introduce the Worker Representative project to them.
We are now and to each business unit.
The Board carry out annual reviews to working with 11 factories as they seek to make improvements and ensure the successful implementation of the CR strategy and to use the project toolkits, and provide us with regular updates approve our targets for the coming year.
provides an introduction to our CR work during the year.
More detailed information, notably key performance data and future WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
targets, is available in our full CR report, available at Forest sourcing www.
It is our continuing objective that all virgin i. e. non-recycled Marketplace material used in our own-brand products is from known, legal, well-managed and credibly certified forests.
This year, in order to Customers ensure compliance with the March 2013 EU Timber Regulations, Customer service standards remain a key focus for our business.
we have implemented a strengthened due diligence system and We review our performance through an independently conducted now require that suppliers provide a far greater level of Customer Satisfaction Monitor which assesses performance in documentary evidence to prove the forest source for timber used areas such as friendliness and helpfulness of staff, time spent in own-brand products.
Using this new due diligence system we queuing and store cleanliness and tidiness.
In the latest survey, have so far been able to verify that 58 per cent of the timber used our High Street stores achieved an overall customer satisfaction within our own-brand timber products originates from recycled score of 8.2 out of 10, with our Travel stores scoring 8.1 out of 10. or certified forest sources.
We use the findings of these surveys to ensure that we continue to focus on the key elements of service that are most important to We have carried out extensive supplier engagement and training our customers.
to ensure that suppliers have a full understanding of the new EU Timber Regulations and WHSmiths specific requirements.
In the We continue to look at ways to improve the experience for our year ahead, we are focussed on working with our suppliers to customers, for example, following extensive trials last year, we deliver material improvements in performance and ensure that have rolled out self-service tills to 131 High Street and Travel we continue to drive improvement in this key area.
stores and have seen positive feedback from customers.
For a number of years, we have been working to improve the We take seriously the responsibility for the products we sell, and forest source information provided on product packaging so that we are committed to listening to our customers feedback.
Our our customers can make an informed choice whether to buy a Marketing Code of Practice sets out the standards we follow in Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified or recycled product.
our promotional activity, marketing and advertising.
In practice The range of products marked with the FSC logo now extends this ensures we sell products that are safe, fit for purpose, meet from pencils and calendars to greetings cards.
In the year ahead, legal standards and are not described in a misleading manner, we are targeting a further 20 per cent increase in the number of particularly when marketing to children.
FSC-labelled products to ensure that we give our customers as much information as we can about the products they are buying.
Suppliers Ethical trading Payment policy for suppliers We are committed to good labour standards and respecting the The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which environment in our supply chain.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to agree the and Human Rights policy states our expectations of our suppliers.
terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade practice We operate an active programme whereby we engage with and, provided a supplier performs in accordance with the suppliers to encourage regular performance improvements.
agreement, to abide by such terms.
Copies of the CBI code may be obtained from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, The in-house supplier audit team based in our Far East Sourcing London WC1A 1DU.
The Companys trade creditors figure as at office carries out a regular programme of supplier audits to the balance sheet date was equivalent to 59 days 2011: 56 days monitor labour standards.
They visit each new factory to assess based on the ratio of average trade creditors to the amounts paid its performance and, where necessary, agree an action plan for during the year to trade suppliers.
We provide support as suppliers make these improvements, and ensure that all direct source suppliers and Asia-based suppliers of UK agents are audited at least every two years.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 19 Directors report and business review Social and environmental matters Social and environmental matters continued Environment Community We recognise that good environmental management also makes As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our community good business sense.
We are committed to reducing the investment on supporting education and life-long learning.
Over environmental impact of our business, and measure our the year we maintained our commitment to invest one per cent of performance each year.
pre-tax profits into local communities, resulting in 1,009,634 in donations 2011: 933,121.
Included in this figure are cash The largest contributor to our carbon footprint is the energy used donations and gifts in kind.
These donations totalled 134,638 to heat and light our stores.
Following a successful trial, we have 2011: 162,260, and were made to local schools and registered rolled out new LED lighting to the majority of the High Street charities including the Woodland Trust and the National Literacy store estate.
The LED lighting is more efficient than our previous Trust.
Over the year, donations made to charities through the sale lighting system, but still provides the appropriate level of of products totalled 186,701 2011: 151,318, including Children illumination for the stores to remain bright and appealing to our in Need, Help for Heroes, Shelter and Macmillan Cancer Support.
This has enabled us to cut energy use per square foot Lastly, we donated significant commercial support to our biggest by 10 per cent in the year.
In the year ahead, we hope to roll the charity partners, for example, World Book Day: these donations project out further to distribution centres and some Travel stores.
The second largest contributor to our carbon footprint is our The full extent of our community investment activity, measured transport fleet.
This year, we have made further improvements to according to the London Benchmarking Group model, is outlined routing and also to delivery frequency.
Changes in frequency have in the Groups CR Report.
enabled us to cut the number of deliveries made by around 17,000 in the year and contributed to a further reduction in the CO The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent registered 2 emissions per pallet moved, down three per cent year on year.
charity, actively supports employees that are involved with charitable organisations in their local communities, as well Waste created by inefficient use of resources and rising landfill asworking in partnership with the Company to support tax represents a significant cost to the business.
have been operating recycling and waste reduction initiatives for several years.
We have previously introduced a new recycling Our community engagement programmes continue to focus on system for many of our High Street stores, which enables our literacy as this is so central to our business.
We are now in the stores to recycle most forms of waste, including plastics and second year of a project with the National Literacy Trust funding metals that we could not previously recycle.
The new system workshops which give parents practical tools to support their enabled us to increase the volume of waste recycled by nine per childrens literacy development.
Our Schools Giveaway project cent, with 69 per cent of waste now being recycled.
We also saw 20,000 worth of WHSmith vouchers given away to schools continue to encourage customers to refuse or reuse carrier bags, all over the country to help build school library resources.
promoting re-usable bags and also making a small charge for Wealso ran a project to donate books to hospitals where we bags in some stores.
operate, providing library resources for patients to access whilst in hospital.
Health and safety Many of our products continue to raise funds for charity partners.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of health and This year, we sold Christmas cards and calendars for Children safety.
The management team, supported by professional safety inNeed as we have done in the past, and also encouraged store advisers, monitors key safety performance indicators and an and head office staff to get involved in fundraising, boosting the annual report detailing trends, performance and total raised.
recommendations is presented to the Board.
The business also has a Health and Safety committee that is comprised of Political donations representatives and professional health and safety advisers.
We It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and no have set a target to reduce reportable accidents recorded across political donations or EU political expenditure were made in the the Group by five per cent by 2013, based on 2010 levels, and we year 2011: nil.
continue to make good progress to meet this goal.
WH Smith PLC 20 Annual report and accounts 2012
