Directors report and business review Employees Employees The Group employs approximately 16,000 people, primarily in the Employee engagement UK, and it is proud of its long history of being regarded as a Employee engagement is supported through clear responsible and respected employer.
communication of the Groups performance and objectives.
This information is cascaded through team briefings, large employee Equal opportunities events, intranet sites and regular e-newsletters.
This approach The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture and the Groups open management style encourages employees that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not to contribute to business development.
permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment when Employee share ownership these are received from disabled people and employs disabled The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved people whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should an employee Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme 'Sharesave Scheme' become disabled when working for the Company, efforts are which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares made to continue their employment and retraining is provided, in the Company.
Approximately 830 employees participate in ifnecessary.
Training and development We recognise the importance of training and development to support employee satisfaction and promote a knowledgeable workforce.
Our programmes enable our staff to grow with the Company and develop their careers.
Succession planning is emphasised across the Group and we continue to achieve high internal succession rates.
During the year, we launched the Retail Academy with new programmes to support internal store succession and enable us to continue to meet the objective that over 75 per cent of store manager appointments should be sourced from internal candidates.
WH Smith PLC 18 Annual report and accounts 2012
