co. uk Restrictions on transfer of shares Major interests There are the following restrictions on the transfer As at the end of the financial year, the Company had of shares in the Company: received formal notification, under the Disclosure and certain restrictions which may from time to time Transparency Rules, of the following material holdings be imposed by laws and regulations for example, in its shares: insider trading laws : pursuant to the Companys share dealing code, the % of issued directors and senior executives of the Company No.
of shares share capital require approval to deal in the Companys shares: BlackRock 17,184,930 9.73% where a person with at least a 0.25% interest in a class of shares has been served with a disclosure Schroders PLC 10,531,421 5.35% notice and has failed to provide the Company with Legal & General 6,960,723 3.97% information concerning interests in those shares: the subscriber ordinary shares may not be Standard Life 7,233,278 4.08% transferred without the prior written consent of the Investments directors: Capital Group 5,986,397 3.38% the directors can, without giving any reason, refuse International, Inc. to register the transfer of any shares which are not fully paid: transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint No changes to the above have been disclosed to the holders: and Company in accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an and Transparency Rules between the end of the uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in financial year and 25 April 2012. the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
Employment policies Whitbread has a range of employment policies covering The Company is not aware of any agreements between such issues as diversity, employee well-being and shareholders that may result in restrictions on the equal opportunities.
transfer of shares or on voting rights.
The Company takes its responsibilities to the disabled B shares and C shares seriously and seeks not to discriminate against current Holders of B shares and C shares are entitled to or prospective employees because of any disability.
receive an annual non-cumulative preferential dividend Full and fair consideration is given to applications for calculated at a rate of 75% of 6 month LIBOR on a value employment made by disabled persons, having regard of 155p per B share and 159p per C share respectively, to their aptitudes and abilities.
Employees who become but are not entitled to any further right of participation disabled during their career at Whitbread will be in the profits of the Company.
They are also entitled retained in employment wherever possible and given to payment of 155p per B share and 159p per C share help with rehabilitation and training.
respectively on a return of capital on winding-up excluding any intra-group reorganisation on a Employee involvement solvent basis.
The importance of good relations and communications with employees is fundamental to the continued Except in limited circumstances, the holders of the B success of our business.
Each of the Groups operating shares and C shares are not entitled in their capacity as businesses maintains employee relations and consults holders of such shares, to receive notice of any general employees as appropriate to its own particular needs.
meeting of the Company nor to attend, speak or vote In addition, our employee opinion survey Your Say, is at any such general meeting.
conducted twice a year to provide insight in to the views of employees.
Purchase of own shares The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares Our employees are actively encouraged to take part in the market.
Approval to renew this authority will be in our Sharesave scheme, which is available to all sought from the shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
employees and offers an option price discounted by 20%.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares Regular internal communications are made to during the year.
14.1million shares representing 7.35% all employees to ensure that they are kept well of the total called up share capital at the beginning of informed of the performance of the Group and of the year are held as treasury shares 3 March 2011: financial and economic factors that may affect the 14.3million.
During the course of the year, the Company Companys performance.
transferred 143,000 shares from treasury to the Employee Share Ownership Trust for the future satisfaction of Further information on employee involvement can awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
be found in the section Team engagement on pages 9 to 11.
Employee share schemes Whitbread does not have any employee share scheme Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association with shares which have rights with regard to the control Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company that are not exercisable directly by of the Company may be made in accordance with the employees.
the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
