30 Performance review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate responsibility Our commitment At Morrisons, the success of our business is not just measured in monetary terms.
We invest in our people, products and systems, so that we can meet future needs and be resilient to change.
We recognise that resource management and being a positive influence in society is central to sustainable growth.
How we manage corporate responsibility CR Management and responsibility for delivery of our core published commitments is led by Group Directors who sit on our Management Board.
Formal reports on innovation, progress, integration and challenges are made to both our Management Board and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Ongoing management is driven from our corporate services division, which incorporates corporate responsibility, policy, corporate affairs, technical, regulatory and media.
Stakeholder engagement An essential part of our CR programme is our engagement with key stakeholders, including investors, customers, government, non-governmental organisations, colleagues, communities and suppliers.
Corporate services is the centre point for stakeholder engagement in its widest sense and this enables us to identify issues and opportunities, respond to changing needs and adhere to regulatory and best practice.
Here, we highlight work undertaken over the last year in relation This two way dialogue ensures that our programme has to three of our core commitments.
relevance and vitality by incorporating informed views.
Making great food Our 2011 12 review Our commitment to nutritional development Details about our full CR programme can be found This year has seen a number of developments in our work in our Corporate responsibility review 2011 12 at to provide customers with the information and products they www.
co. uk cr need to make healthier choices, including further investment in our nutrition and food innovation teams.
Above right Morrisons signed up to the Governments Public Health Our store colleagues are trained Responsibility Deal and, amongst other commitments, pledged in craft skills and have a good understanding of our products.
to meet 2012 salt reduction targets and to put calorie information on our out of home eating options.
Our in-store caf menus and counter items now provide calorie information at point of choice, so that our customers can make informed decisions about the food they enjoy.
Behind the scenes, a nutrition tool was designed to assist our developers in the creation of healthier products across our portfolio.
We continue to reduce saturated fat, alongside our salt content, without compromising on taste.
Customers who shop from Market Street can now find nutrition information for those products on our website.
This is initially available for core products within Bakery, Cake Shop, Oven Fresh and Fresh 2 Go and will be extended throughout 2012 13.
co. uk market-street  Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 31 Sustainable farming Affordable efficiency through Increasingly, farmers are recognising that the most efficient responsible sourcing and profitable farms are those with the lowest carbon footprint.
We are continuing to develop projects that help more and The Morrisons Farming Programme more of our farmers improve their environmental stewardship.
The Morrisons Farming Programme is now in its third year of operation and is consistently delivering tangible benefits for We completed stage one of a project with our Dairy Crest British agriculture and the Morrisons business.
producer group that recorded and analysed the carbon footprint of 110 farms.
We now have a network of producer groups across the farming spectrum, from red meat to poultry to dairy, the length and Grass is the farmers greatest asset, yet conservative estimates breadth of Great Britain.
say at least 30% of British grassland is under utilised.
Our Arla dairy farmer group wanted better information on grassland There is a clear focus for every applied research project that we management in a format that farmers can easily reference and commission and fund: to help build a sustainable British farming understand.
The result was an innovative document showcasing industry that is capable of supplying quality yet affordable food a unique, farmer designed format, enabling them to get quick for future generations.
As the retailer closest to farming, we can work hand in hand with our farmers to help them make the changes at farm level that can improve efficiency, save money, reduce carbon footprint and improve quality of life for farmed animals.
The reason we do this work is to help our farmers and further improve the quality of fresh food in-store for our customers.
The recognition we are increasingly receiving from Government Ministers, the National Farming Unions and animal welfare groups is an added bonus.
Animal welfare Animal welfare is important to Morrisons, our customers and our farmers.
During the year, we have completed a number of industry leading projects.
For example, we moved all our standard fresh chicken to higher welfare production methods, raised in houses with windows providing natural light and environmental enrichment in the form of bales, perches and pecking objects.
Driving innovation This year, we have upgraded our Morrisons farmers website to enable them to easily access a wide range of data compiled on the carcass of the cattle, sheep or pig they have supplied.
The information will be a valuable tool to help our farmers make adjustments that can improve herd technical performance.
The Morrisons Farm at Dumfries House Our farm in Scotland continues to be a valuable resource in promoting the benefits of British produce and providing a clear understanding around the challenges of farming.
We pioneered our traditional beef programme at Dumfries House and have a Above number of projects around sustainable animal feed and pasture We work closely with farmers to help improve food quality.
We will open our doors to fellow farmers in June 2012, as we host the flagship event in the British sheep industrys calendar, ScotSheep.
The Morrisons farming conference In March 2012, we will hold our first Morrisons farming conference inviting over 600 of our suppliers to join with us and debate how best to drive and deliver sustainable farming practices.
32 Performance review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate responsibility continued For everyone Engaging in communities Since Lets Grow began in 2008 09, in response to work carried out by DEFRA indicating childrens lack of knowledge around fruit and vegetables, Morrisons has given over five million children the ability to get out of the classroom to learn about growing food and the food cycle first hand.
Since we began the programme, we have given away over 12m worth of gardening and cooking equipment, from wellies to wheelbarrows, spades to spatulas and gloves to greenhouses.
Since 2008 09 we have given away over: 11,000 wellies: 34,000 watering cans: 361,000 packets of seeds: 64,000 trowels: 8,900 greenhouses: and 364,000 plant pots.
Above Getting out of the classroom and learning about food with Lets Grow.
Schools are also encouraged to bring Lets Grow into the curriculum via our online teaching resources, including tutorial videos, lesson plans, activity sheets and assembly guides.
Lets Grow also supports schools, should they wish to visit their local Morrisons store, and our store managers work with schools to develop fun and engaging store visits, assemblies and lessons, Corporate responsibility highlights bringing the food story to life and showing them how their produce goes from field to fork.
On target for a 30% absolute reduction in carbon emissions by 2020 2005 baseline Now moving into its fifth year, Lets Grow continues to work with over 26,500 schools across the country.
In 2012 13, % Lets Grow is looking to extend the programme out into the 14.6 achieved to date wider community, and provide schools with more of what they need to get children out and learn about the food cycle On target to achieve zero waste direct to for themselves.
landfill by 2013 % 5.6 remaining Exceeded target of raising at least 1m per annum for our Charity of the Year Save the Children 2.3m raised Above Our Raise a Smile campaign has engaged colleagues and customers.
