Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 33 Our people Investing in people Case study Salford We are creating job opportunities for In the opening of our Salford local people, who benefit from our store store, we helped over 70% of our store colleagues from growth plans, resulting in customers disadvantaged backgrounds through agencies such as feeling we are part of their communities.
CREATE, Remploy and Shaw We are creating better shopping Trust, providing them with a job, the chance to obtain experiences for those customers because a qualification and the opportunity to progress of the way we engage and train our their careers.
We are creating long term partnerships with our people by giving them the time, qualifications and support needed to grow and develop their skills, which last a lifetime.
Our people highlights Part of our communities At Morrisons, we want our stores to be truly part of the Absence improved by communities they serve.
We believe that providing people with a job, a qualification and a chance of a career is the basis for % % building loyal and committed team members.
This, coupled with 0.83 to 3.34 our commitment to growing our own people, provides the basis of a strong Morrisons culture and increased social mobility.
Labour turnover In 2011 12, we opened 37 new stores including one % replacement, creating over 6,000 new jobs, and going to great 16.17 lengths to recruit local people.
On average, 75% of colleagues in our new stores are from the local area, and our building Colleague engagement improved suppliers also strive to employ local people as part of our through the year by partnership approach.
% In 2012 13, we will create more than 7,000 new jobs.
3 We proactively partner with a number of leading agencies, measured through our such as CREATE, Remploy and Shaw Trust, who specialise colleague engagement survey in recruiting people from excluded backgrounds.
As a result, in our new stores, over half of the people we recruit are from Employee stability was such backgrounds.
At our Willow Green RDC, over 200 unemployed people successfully completed our pre-employment % programme and we employed over 50 people facing redundancy 86.95 from local firms.
measured as colleagues with more than one year service Our apprenticeship programme also helps young people progress from exclusion to inclusion.
We pay all of our The benefit of these improvements apprentices at least the national minimum wage two-and-a-half to the business is estimated at times more than the apprentice minimum wage and, last year alone, 4,000 Morrisons colleagues progressed from entry level jobs to junior management positions after first gaining an 12m apprenticeship.
In 2012 13, we aim to train 15,000 new apprentices in relevant skills such as retail, customer service, butchery and bakery.
At 31 December 2011 We have also designed a new programme, which will lead to a degree for one thousand 18 to 24 year olds.
The first group Awards won in 2011 12 started earlier this year.
34 Performance review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Our people continued In 2011 12, we also delivered a step change in our customer Friendly people making great food service.
Every one of our store colleagues has been involved in We know that, by investing in our colleagues and building their our HOT service programme hello, offer, thank, delivering skills, we can create an unrivalled shopping experience: one that the largest service programme of its kind in the UK.
At its is delivered by friendly and knowledgeable people: one that new heart, our managers are trained to coach for service, helping customers switch supermarkets for: one that existing customers to create the right environment and championing the new recommend to others and come back to.
As a business, we believe that the skills of our people give us an When we get it right, HOT promotes a warm, friendly and edge over our competition.
We have more craft trained people natural service for our customers, who are already telling us than any other retailer, making great food and sharing their they are seeing the difference.
In the last 12 months, we have expertise with our customers.
accomplished a 21% increase in the degree to which customers would recommend us to others, and a 56% increase in the In our stores, every colleague has the opportunity to achieve number of compliments we receive.
We have also recorded a QCF NVQ Level 2 Retail Skills qualification equivalent leading service scores in the mystery shopper exercises carried to GCSEs.
We now have over 100,000 store colleagues who out by renowned industry publication The Grocer.
have been successfully accredited with this industry-recognised qualification.
Many of our colleagues leave school with few Cultivating a winning environment qualifications and through this programme we have created opportunities for people who would otherwise not aspire Morrisons thrives by having people in place who know how the to progression.
business works and how to do a good job.
We have a strong record of developing our own people: 95% of our store general Through the Morrisons Academy, our suite of training and managers are promoted from within and 30% of our senior development tools and processes, we have delivered over one management team started on the shop floor.
This means our million training days in the last 12 months, providing our people leaders have a rich vein of experience from which to coach and with specialist skills for their function, as well as consistent core develop their people and, continuing this tradition, in 2011 12 skills.
All our training interventions are linked to our values, alone, over 5,500 colleagues progressed from the shop floor ensuring we strengthen and preserve the unique Morrisons to managerial positions.
culture as we grow our business.
Cultivating an environment in which everyone can grow to be the best, they can be starts with enabling our managers to be great leaders and coaches.
Last year, over 4,000 managers from across the business attended our revolutionary Coaching for Performance programme.
The programme, developed in partnership with Leeds Metropolitan University and Leeds Carnegie, is the centrepiece of our Centre of Excellence for Coaching, and translates parallels from winning sports teams Case study into success in the business environment.
Mastercraft The resultant common mindset approach to motivating, training and rewarding our people has become a way of life at Morrisons.
We have more craft trained people than any other retailer.
Through the skills they acquire from the programme, our To further reinforce the role these colleagues play in making managers are better able to offer meaningful support to our great food, in 2011 12 we launched our Mastercraft colleagues and coach on the go.
Over 1,000 of our butchers, bakers, fishmongers and cheesemongers entered and, in the final, the best of the Morrisons was also the first major business to respond to the best showcased their skills in Masterchef style.
In 2012 13, Lord Davies review into women on boards.
In 2011 12, we paid the four winners, pictured, will spend time in their respective particular attention to supporting women in our organisation.
industry further honing their skills and expertise.
We have already met the criteria for the Davies report: over 25% of our main Board are female.
In the past 12 months, we have increased the number of our female senior managers by 7% to 20%, and are making strong progress on reaching our target of 30% representation by 2014 15.
Last year, we also won the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development award for Organisational Development for our Advanced Leadership Programme, which prepares members of our senior management team to become the executive directors of the future.
In 2012 13, we will further develop our talent pipeline to fuel our future growth.
We will offer opportunities for graduates and school leavers through our M Futures programme and, through our accelerated development programme, we will grow our store general managers and business leaders of the future.
Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 35 Lifetime partnerships Case study We want to build lifetime partnerships with our people Women in Business by helping them to grow and develop through the Morrisons Academy and by making Morrisons a great company to work for.
The result will see our colleagues staying with us for longer and developing a deep understanding of our business.
This makes sense for our people, our customers and our shareholders: we know that colleagues who are engaged with our business deliver better service, leading to increased satisfaction and sales.
In 2011 12, over 105,000 colleagues participated in our colleague opinion Climate Survey to give their thoughts on life at Morrisons.
As a result of their feedback, we have invested in our family friendly policies, making our maternity and paternity policies industry leading and significantly enhancing our bereavement, sickness and compassionate leave policies.
We believe that, if we look after our colleagues, they will look after our customers.
Our commitment to colleagues health and wellbeing is exemplified through our effective occupational health team, who supports our colleagues and makes recommendations to help them return to work when they are well enough.
As a result of this collaborative approach, our absence rates are at an all time low.
We have already seen proof that our commitment to building lifetime partnerships by investing in our people is making a positive difference.
In our 2011 12 Climate Survey, we witnessed a 10% increase in our colleague engagement levels and, since we launched the Morrisons Academy in 2009, we have seen a 7% increase in productivity and a 6% improvement in staff retention.
In 2011 12, we paid particular attention to supporting women in our organisation.
Through our participation in the We will keep on listening to our colleagues to understand Women in Business initiative for which Morrisons hosted how we can further build and enhance our people proposition.
the inaugural event, pictured, our talented women can Each month, over 12,000 colleagues are invited to complete network with other leading groups to foster partnerships, our monthly Pulse Survey, a shorter colleague opinion survey, and lead and coach other women in business.
Through this of which we see a 90% return.
programme, we are preparing a pipeline of future senior female leaders.
Key facts Case study Increase in the number of female Retirement senior managers In 2011 12, we introduced our Morrisons Plus retirement % club, so that we keep in touch with, and provide benefits 7 and support to, our retired colleagues.
In 2011 12, 5,000 colleagues signed up to Morrisons Plus.
People progressing from shop floor In 2012 13, were introducing a new pensions scheme, to managerial positions in 2011 12 available to all colleagues to help provide for retirement.
5,500 People participating in our annual colleague opinion survey 105,000
