Wolseley plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility CR programme component Sustaining our profitable, long-termgrowth People Development Our Corporate Responsibility CR programme is intrinsically linked to the long-term, profitable growth of the Company.
For example, reducing the Health and Safety number of days lost through injury improves productivity.
A well-trained and motivated workforce delivers exceptional customer service and strengthens the Companys Ethics Programme and market share.
Reduced fuel and energy Legal Compliance consumption lowers our cost base and expands our margins.
The way in which eachof our CR programme components Environmental underpins our business strategy is detailed Performance over the following pages, along with our progress and objectives for the year 2012 13.
More information on each programme component is provided in the pages that Product Integrity follow, with further case studies available onour website www.
Sustainable Construction Community Engagement Gain market share Expand Improve profitable gross margins productivity growth Improve returns and cash Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Governance of Corporate Responsibility Early in the financial year the CR programme was discussed Who has overall accountability and sets direction?
and reviewed comprehensively with each business unit and with the Board.
It was found to continue to provide a suitable The overall programme is agreed by the Board and reviewed framework and included the elements that were important annually to ensure its ongoing relevance to business for the improvement of the business and its competitiveness.
strategy, stakeholder expectations and broader national and During the year, greater emphasis has been given to international sustainability agendas.
The Groups Company improving the processes for the sourcing and testing of Secretary and General Counsel is responsible to the Board ourproducts Product Integrity and to our increasing for the overall corporate responsibility programme and for involvement in the supply chain for sustainable construction.
maintaining regular dialogue with business units to drive The seven key themes are shown opposite.
Individual programme components receive identied by business unit management as those which could more frequent review and input by the Board and the make the greatest contribution to operational improvement.
The essential principle with all programme components is that they are integral to the way we do business.
Who implements the strategy set by the Board?
With direction from the Board, business units define and execute local action plans.
Business unit plans differ Key developments in the year according to their own particular level of development and People Strategy updated and approved bytheBoard.
the greatest opportunities for progress in line with strategy.
Recognising the business benefit of sustainable performance, All branches reassessed for health and safety a dedicated Group Risk and Sustainability Manager performance.
wasrecruited in February 2012 to oversee implementation.
Health and safety systems across the Group reviewed Are targets and objectives set?
Objectives and, in some cases, quantied targets are set Ethics programme and Code of Conduct further forall of our CR programme components.
For some of our embedded into the business.
focus areas, Group-wide KPIs have been dened.
This is notthe case for all elements of our programme as it is not Controls relating to bribery, fraud, corruption and always practical to bring distinct local practices and reporting anti-trust further strengthened.
methods under one unied metric.
Improved performance isour primary goal.
Unied processes and measures are Environmental improvement targets set for all Wolseley implemented where there is benefit in doing so.
continue to review the potential for further Group-wide Greater accuracy in environmental data reporting with performance metrics for future reporting.
Product Integrity programme launched andGroup-wide Performance is measured by different teams for each Product Integrity policy andoperating framework adopted.
programme component but performance is monitored Ethical sourcing policies and practices strengthened.
across all CR programme components by the Group Risk and Sustainability team, according to each components Increased customer training in sustainable construction specic objectives and targets.
This year our internal audit products.
teams have tested compliance with policy and adherence toprocedures for a number of our programme components, Continued increase in Wolseley backhauling ofproduct including our health and safety and ethics programmes.
from suppliers, reducing supplier emissions.
Where comparable data isavailable we benchmark our performance against industrystandards.
How are risks assessed and mitigated?
Non-financial as well as financial risks are assessed as part of the Groups wider risk management process.
These include fraud, corruption, product quality, health and safety and environmental compliance.
For further information on the Groups risk management programme, see pages 42 to47.
A dedicated corporate responsibility risk assessment will be conducted in 2012 13 to ensure that our efforts are appropriately focused.
Wolseleys climate-related risks are also thoroughly reviewed and documented each year as part of our submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Wolseley plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Focus area Principle Supporting Group Strategy People We value our people and are committed to The development and retention of our people trainand develop all of our employees.
will lead to increased productivity and Development Weunderstand, respect and value personal motivation, improved quality of operations and andcultural differences.
customer service, and a lowered cost base.
Health and Safety We will provide a safe and healthy working Protecting the health and safety of our people environment and we will not compromise helps us to gain and maintain their trust and thehealth and safety of any individual.
It also ensures that we protect the skills and experience that are used to serve our customers.
In addition, maintaining our physical assets minimises the risk of injury, helps us to preserve the integrity of our operations, improves efficiency, lowers our costs and improves the quality of our customer service.
Ethics Programme We are committed to observing both the spirit Conducting business responsibly and with and the letter of the laws of all jurisdictions in integrity minimises risks related to fraud and and Legal Compliance which we operate, and to complying with our corruption and strengthens our reputation.
also makes our business more efficient because we avoid costly disruptions.
Compliance programmes strengthen our internal controls.
We will run efficient operations that consume Measuring our environmental performance in Environmental less energy and fuel, produce less waste and chosen areas will enable us to become more Performance reduce any negative effect of our business efficient, reduce operational costs and reduce activities on the environment.
our impact on the environment.
We will explore opportunities to reduce theenvironmental impacts of our suppliers andcustomers.
We will work with our suppliers to maintain Improving productivity and improving customer Product excellent standards of product quality service.
Compliance with our product integrity Integrity andsafety.
policy reduces risks of litigation, claims and disruption.
We expect our vendors, contractors and agents to adhere to our Code of Conduct and to adopt similar standards.
We will be a positive link in the sustainable Gain market share by exploiting opportunities Sustainable construction supply chain.
of this new market and by attracting and Construction maintaining customers through new customer services.
Community We will be a responsible member of the Building closer relationships with the communities in which we work.
communities in which we operate helps us Engagement topromote our business, attract high quality recruits and gain a greater understanding ofourcustomers, vendors and employees.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 What did we achieve this year?
What are our objectives for next year?
Further information Performance reviews were conducted for all To improve the diversity of the workforce.
See page 52 employees at all levels.
Every business conducted employee To assess senior leadership development.
engagement surveys on a regular basis and set improvement targets based on the output from those surveys.
Robust talent review and succession plan process in place in all clusters and at a Grouplevel.
Further information Improved health and safety performance To set business unit and Group targets See page 53 throughout the Group.
basedon the three Group metrics for the coming year.
Set targets at business unit and Group level.
Element of management bonuses dependent on improvement of health and safety performance.
Further information Continued training of employees.
See page 55 Undertook anti-corruption risk assessment To assess major suppliers and business incertain business units.
To run advanced face-to-face competition lawtraining for relevant employees.
Further information Thoroughly reviewed our environmental To reduce tCO2e carbon emissions by 7.5%.
See page 56 efficiency programme, shared best practice To reduce waste to landll by 15%.
and set targets at business unit and Group both relative to million revenue, achievable by 31 July level.
2014 and measurable against a 2011 12 baseline To further improve data accuracy by reducing reliance on estimates.
Made progress in ensuring contract terms with To conduct risk assessments against all of Further information See page 59 existing and new key business partners meet ourmajor product categories.
the standards of our ethics programme.
To measure performance against Product Adoption of Product Integrity policy and Integrity KPIs.
Development of Product Integrity KPIs.
Further information Assessed the scope and potential for our To monitor the market opportunities and See page 60 sustainable product offering.
sharebest practice around the Group.
Further information Continued our support of the Impetus Trust To maintain and strengthen our businesses See page 61 and the Princes Foundation for Building links with their communities.
Community, and supported a great number ofcharity and community events.
Wolseley plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued What did we achieve in 2011 12?
People Development We provided skills training for front-line employees.
This has remained a strategic priority for the Group.
How does People Development Trainingprogrammes have been executed in all businesses.
Wolseley Canada launched Sales Effectiveness training and Driving a Culture of Customer Service Excellence It is a business imperative to nurture and develop employees.
training, completed by over 400 employees.
Ferguson A skilled and engaged workforce delivers excellent provides specic sales training each month via a web-based customerservice, develops strong vendor relationships, FastTrain module on its intranet.
Wolseley UK has launched andmaximises operational efficiencies.
New and more an online training academy as part of a customer service productive ways of working can be identied by a motivated andemployee development drive, offering a broad range of and creative workforce.
Around 1,000 courses are completed each month.
What does People Development entail?
All employees received a detailed performance review and feedback from their manager.
Our People Strategy was developed during 2011 12 andwas approved by the Board.
The results of these reviews inform their individual development plans and objectives for the next year.
Leadership We offered people development training to managers.
Performance management This is to ensure that high quality performance reviews and development discussions are held with all of our employees.
Training and development For the second consecutive year, we conducted Talent management engagement surveys in all of our business units.
Reward We are pleased to report that scores have increased in all businesses compared to the previous year and remain very Organisation high when compared to industry averages in all countries ofoperation.
At Ferguson, we are conducting quarterly PulseSurveys on employee job satisfaction.
This allows Ferguson leaders and the HR team to react quickly to current employee concerns.
We continued to manage an in-depth talent review and People development is fundamental to our People Strategy succession planning process for our senior leaders.
four of the six key components of the strategy relate This took place with the Executive Committee and the directly to it and are described in more detail below.
We have upgraded our succession planning process Leadership by making objective assessment an integral part of any senior internal appointment or external recruitment.
This includes running leadership and management development programmes, succession and promotion from within, modelling the right values and behaviours, andleadership in health and safety.
Performance management This includes embedding basic people management skills, performance review and appraisal, coaching and mentoring, honest feedback and increasing productivity.
Training and development This includes the provision of training skills for front-line employees, focusing on sales force productivity, branch manager development, functional standards and skills development, and induction.
Talent management This includes the development of a pipeline of talent, succession planning, development plans and career pathing, targeted recruitment, objective assessment, movement of talent through international assignments andimproving workforce diversity.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 What are our objectives, how did we perform in Health and Safety 2011 12 and what are our targets for 2012 13?
2011 12 objectives Performance 2012 13 objectives How does Health and Safety underpin To conduct Complete Diversity ourstrategy?
performance We will prioritise Arobust health and safety programme and a positive health reviews for all workforce diversity and safety culture improve productivity by reducing the employees at atalllevels of the number of days lost to injury.
It helps to protect profitability alllevels.
by reducing our liabilities and helps to gain market share where contracts require strong health and safety credentials.
To conduct Complete Workforce employee productivity What does Health and Safety entail?
engagement In 2012 13, major surveys on a emphasis will be put Our businesses are continuously improving the systems in regular basis and onproductivity and place to manage the health and safety of our employees, set improvement operational efficiency customers and others with whom we come into contact.
targets based across the business.
These systems include policies stating our approach and onthe results.
intent, and tools such as risk assessments, documented safe working practices and self-assessments.
At a Group level we measure and report injury rates, lost workday rates To put in place Complete Senior leadership and collision rates.
For many of our businesses, additional arobust talent development business or country specic measures are in place.
review and We will assess our succession plan senior leadership What did we achieve in 2011 12?
in all clusters and development at a Group level.
programmes and We improved performance against our three health redesign as appropriate and safetymetrics.
to ensure that they align Our performance metrics are injury rate, lost workday rate with our strategy.
We assessed the maturity of our health and safety management systems.
Ferguson focus on customer service Business units scored themselves on a maturity matrix This year some of Fergusons well-established customer inthefollowing categories: culture and values: policies service training programmes were targeted to specic andstandards: governance and director competence: high-impact roles, such as counter sales associates.
organisational structures, roles and responsibilities: Thecounter training programme focuses on several areas management systems: performance management: and including the inventory mix, stock levels, merchandise monitoring and audit.
The results were benchmarked displays, the oor plan and layout, building customer againstpublicly available information on our competitors and relationships, and sales training.
Feedback and findings other companies regarded as leaders in health and safety from the secret shopper programme were integrated into management.
Whilst there were areas of very good practice, the training and used as a teaching tool, to recognise we found some aspects of our processes to be below the outstanding associate behaviour and to identify standards we aspire to and we have worked hard to improve opportunities for improvement.
our performance over the last year see thetable overleaf.
Werepeated the self-assessment in August 2012 to gauge our progress and to identify key areas for improvement in the coming year.
Our aim remains to demonstrate good practice in all categories and in all parts of the Group.
Health and safety has more prominence on Executive Committee and Board agendas.
The Executive Committee and the Board conduct quarterly reviews of health and safety performance.
A comprehensive Board review of health and safety performance and programmes takes place once a year.
Operational branch audits were completed in all major businesses by December 2011.
Self-assessments for the UK, USA, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Austria, Switzerland, France and Canada are complete.
Action plans are being implemented to deliver against the audit recommendations.
Wolseley plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Internal audits have been conducted in a number Fleet collision rate ofour businesses to assess health and safety compliance and the accuracy of reported data.
Third-party vehicle collisions per 100 vehicles Internal audits of health and safety compliance have been completed in the USA, France, the UK, Canada, and most Nordic and Central European businesses.
Internal audits of the KPI reporting process have been completed in each region.
20.1 17.3 16.6 Employee surveys on health and safety were completed in most business units.
2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Where possible, specic health and safety questions were integrated into the employee engagement survey process.
Lost workday rate Also, Ferguson dedicated one of their quarterly employee surveys to health and safety, gaining input on attitudes Workdays lost per 100 employees fromover 1,000 employees.
The UK business integrated health and safety questions into its Have your say engagement survey.
Health and safety specialists across the Group regularly share best practice.
62.5 62.3 58.1 Health and safety specialists from each region participate ina quarterly best-practice call.
2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Health and safety specialists met at the Wolseley Risk Conference inApril 2012 where they had dedicated Injury rate workshops onperformance improvement.
Per 100,000 hours worked Per 100 employees What are our metrics, how did we perform in 2011 12 At-work injuries requiring medical treatment andwhat are our targets for 2012 13?
2011 12 metrics Performance 2012 13 targets Fleet collision rate 17% improvement To set business unit and Group 1.5 1.4 3.4 Lost workday rate 7% improvement 3.1 3.0 targets based on the three Injury rate 5% deterioration 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Group metrics.
Reducing injuries in Canada We are pleased to report a reduction in our collision rate Wolseley Canada has reduced work-related injuries by over 17%improvement and lost work day rate 7% improvement 40 per cent and lost workdays by over 67 per cent in the across the Group.
Our injury rate has increased 5% last five years as a result of the ongoing implementation of deterioration attributable to improved data and an increase the Occupational Health and Safety Management System in the number of new employees.
Each business unit has OHSMS 18001.
The process involved a detailed gap improvement targets in place for the coming year.
analysis, new policy development, best-practice sharing The charts that follow show our performance over the past initiatives, job hazard analysis and a commitment to threeyears.
Following a review of the three Group KPIs, ownership by branch management.
A bi-annual health wedecided to report injuries per 100,000 hours worked andsafety Facility Self-Assessment was initiated in the last instead of per 100 employees.
We have done this in order financial year to continuously self-evaluate branch safety tomove our reporting metrics more in line with industry performance.
A financial reward is given to those branches standard reporting practices to allow us to benchmark that achieve 90 per cent conformance to the OHSMS 18001 ourperformance more effectively.
The injury rate per 100 Assessment.
To date, over 80 per cent of the branches employees has been presented in the chart this year for inthe programme have a score of 90 per cent or better.
consistency purposes as we transition to the new metric.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 An online competition law refresher course is Ethics Programme and inthe process of being introduced throughout ourbusinesses.
Legal Compliance This supplements the full online training course that is provided every two to three years.
Advanced face-to-face How does the Ethics Programme and Legal competition law training is being developed and will be Compliance underpin our strategy?
provided to relevant employees during 2012 13.
Compliance with the letter and the spirit of the law and a We continue to encourage our employees to commitment to high ethical standards protects our business report any incidences of non-compliance through from unforeseen liabilities and strengthens our reputation with stakeholders: it nurtures trust across our customer our Group-wide condential reporting system, andsupplier base: it gives reassurance to our shareholders: Speak Up!.
and it instils confidence in our workforce.
Employees can disclose information in any language, condentially and anonymously via an international hotline, What does the Ethics Programme and Legal voicemail or web message.
The condential reports are Compliance entail?
investigated and, where necessary, actions are taken to rectify any weakness in our systems that may have been Our Ethics Programme and Code of Conduct aim to identied.
These actions, and the overall integrity of the strengthen our core values see page 11 by setting out reporting system, are subject to regular scrutiny by the inclear terms the standards and behaviour expected of AuditCommittee.
ouremployees and, in some cases, our business partners.
Itsets out the high ethical standards which Wolseley expects from its employees and others carrying outits business, What are our objectives, how did we perform in focusing oncompliance with thelaw, inparticular avoiding 2011 12 and what are our objectives for 2012 13?
bribery, corruption and fraud, maintenance of gifts and 2011 12 objectives Performance 2012 13 objectives hospitality registers, preservation ofcondential information, managing conicts of interest, treating customers and To train In progress.
Complete vendors fairly, engaging in fair competition, maintaining high relevant Training being provided anti-bribery standards of corporate governance, providing asafe and employees in all businesses.
andcorruption healthy working environment, running efficient operations, on antitraining.
minimising wasteand limiting our environmental impact, bribery and anddevelopingour employees and valuing diversity.
Assessment of Our Code of Conduct was further embedded into major suppliers due diligence We started to identify thebusiness following its introduction in the last procedures.
and categorise our and business financial year.
order to prioritise All new joiners are required to complete training on our Code Delivery of due-diligence efforts.
of Conduct, competition law and anti-bribery and corruption, advanced tailored totheir role and seniority.
Our controls for the prevention of bribery, fraud and corruption were strengthened over the year.
Employees most at risk were identied and a programme oftraining is in place.
Internal audits were carried out in the UKand further audits are planned for the next financial year.
Areas for improvement have been identied and action plansdeveloped.
Businesses are also planning to assess their suppliers to review their compliance with bribery and corruption policies, and are conducting risk assessments ofbribery and corruption risks.
Wolseley plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Average water consumption per employee Environmental Performance Cubic metres How does Environmental Performance underpinour strategy?
21.2 The reduced consumption of energy, fuel and water and 19.4 19.1 18.5 production of waste lessens our environmental impact whilst reducing cost, improving our operational efficiencies and expanding our gross margins.
Responsible environmental 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 management helps to protect our reputation, as increasingly Our performance statistics and examples of how our customers assess our environmental credentials through businesses have improved their environmental performance pre-qualication questionnaires.
are detailed in the greenhouse gas emissions, in the waste and water sections that follow, with further examples What does Environmental Performance entail?
available on our website www.
Environmental performance concerns the management All of our businesses now have environmental targets andreduction of our greenhouse gas emissions, our waste in place.
Where possible, we work withour suppliers to reduce their environmental impacts.
The environmental impacts that are most material to Wolseley Forexample, we reduce supplier transport emissions by are vehicle fuel consumption, electricity consumption and backhauling product from their factories when our trucks waste production.
All businesses now have reduction would otherwise return empty toour distribution centres.
targetsin place for their two biggest carbon contributors This reduces the mileage and related CO2 emissions of our i. e, fuel and energy and waste to landll.
Local targets suppliers whilst also reducing Wolseleys costs and number differaccording to local business objectives, ensuring of empty miles on the road.
thatperformance targets are owned by and remain the responsibility of each business unit.
The Group-level targets What did we achieve in 2011 12?
are an aggregation of the targets set by each of our businesses.
We reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions 12% improvement, waste production We have improved the reliability of our 6%improvement and water consumption environmentaldata.
significant efforts have been made to gain visibility of actual We reduced the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions consumption data and to rely less on estimates.
Thelevel of and waste production per million of revenue.
data derived from estimates has dropped from 60 per cent Waterconsumption per employee increased slightly.
to 36 per cent in our greenhouse gas reporting, from 74 per cent to 23 per cent in our waste reporting and from 83 per Emissions per m of revenue cent to 25 per cent in our water reporting.
Future years will see the estimation level drop further as we challenge old processes and work with our suppliers and branches to tCO2e tonnes of CO2 equivalent improve data accuracy and completeness.
The valuable knowledge of our environmental experts is now shared across the Group.
Knowledge sharing sessions have been run to develop best 61.7 59.3 54.2 practices and facilitate achievement of targets.
50.2 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 The following pages describe our future targets and historical performance.
Future targets have been set Waste per m of revenue Non-hazardous against a relative measure, e. g. per million revenue.
Hazardous Historical performance shown in the charts on pages Tonnes 57 and 58 show absolute gures.
7.9 6 5.5 5.4 0.1 0.1 0.08 0.05 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 As a Group, our biggest contributors to carbon emissions What are our metrics, how did we perform in are vehicle fuel 64.4 per cent of total tCO2e, including both 2011 12 and what are our targets for 2014?
commercial and company car eets, and electricity 25.7 per Relative cent.
Fuel consumption for operations i. e, gas, oil and 2011 12 metrics performance 2014 targets district heating consumption represents 8.2 per cent of our carbon footprint.
Refrigerant leakage and business travel 1.
Greenhouse 7.3% -7.5% account for0.4 per cent and 1.3 per cent respectively.
As in gas emissions improvement previous years, tCO2e emissions have been reported in tCO2e per m revenue accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Protocol.
Wolseley reports on its Scope 1 and Scope 2 2.
Waste 0.5% -15% emissions, asdened by the GHG Protocol, and aims to Non-hazardous improvement waste report on its Scope 3 emissions wherever possible.
The tonnes per m revenue tolandll chart in the previous column therefore includes selected Waste 40.1% No Group Scope 3 emissions those arising from business travel.
Local initiatives that have driven reductions in our tCO2e tonnes per m revenue emissions from our commercial vehicle eet include the phased switch towards higher-efficiency vehicles, the 3.
Water 3.1% No Group monitoring of idling time for trucks, and route optimisation cubic metres per deterioration level target.
Company car eets are increasingly low-carbon employee as businesses transition their eets to more fuel-efficient vehicles.
Regarding fuel use for operations, solutions have The Group-level targets presented above are relative to included the installation of building-management systems, million revenue.
The targets are against a 2011 12 baseline, heating system upgrades and fuel-switching i. e, oil to gas with a target date of 31 July 2014. heating where possible.
Reductions in electricity consumption Performance gures are based on precise data rather than have been achieved through the use of energy-efficient lighting, the rounded data shown in the charts.
Where environmental data centre consolidation and various behavioural initiatives.
data has not been included due to business disposals, More detailed case studies are available on our website.
therelative measures revenue and employees have been recalculated to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Greening of Ferguson The Group has lowered its relative impact for both greenhouse Ferguson has established standards to quantify its gas emissions and waste production.
Absolute gures environmental impact, and created a dashboard to track reduced across all three metrics.
The companys six initial areas of focus are: signicantly inuenced these gures as businesses reported recycling: fuel usage: utilities: landll: water consumption: more actual data and relied less on estimations.
Additionally, and distribution centre transportation or reducing empty new data has been captured that was not included in miles.
A recent pilot programme to retrot lighting in previous years reporting.
Fergusons distribution centres has delivered significant savings, while also reducing carbon emissions by 3,383 1.
Absolute greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e tCO2e per annum.
The new xtures utilise motion sensors Absolute greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e to provide on-demand lighting and are much brighter, Refrigerant leakage Fuel use: transportation of goods creating a better work environment.
In addition to lighting Business travel: air and rail Fuel use: operations Business travel: vehicles Electricity use upgrades, the company is raising awareness and exploring many options to reduce its environmental impacts through Absolute tonnes of CO2 equivalent 000s activities such as replacing aerators on faucets, installing 2 3 8 low-ush toilets, and advancing recycling efforts.
5 88 3 97 8 247 82 3 245 8 198 85 334 118 105 101 394 360 346 53 167 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported as tonnes of CO2 equivalent abbreviated as tCO2e, based on the Global Warming Potential GWP ofeach of the basket of six greenhouse gases, as dened by the Kyoto Protocol.
The GWP of CO2 is 1 1 tonne CO2 1 tonne CO2e.
For other greenhouse gases in the basket of six, including refrigerants, the GWP isrelative to the CO2 over a 100-year time horizon e. g. one tonne of the refrigerant R407C is equivalent to 1,526 tonnes of CO2 in terms of its potential impact on climate change.
Wolseley plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Additionally, we reduced our suppliers emissions 80 per cent less waste sent to landll through backhauling.
atBeijerByggmaterial Wolseley UK estimates that it saved at least 1,512,245 Beijer Byggmaterial in Sweden is ISO14001 certied at all supplier kms in 2011 12, equating to1,376 tonnes of avoided 65branches and waste management is a core part of the supplier transport emissions.
Inthe USA, Ferguson also environmental management system.
Over the past ten carries out backhauling for suppliers through its carrier, UPS.
years Beijer has reduced the level of waste sent to landll Ferguson lled 38 per cent of its distribution centre backhaul from 100 per cent to less than 20 per cent of total waste empty miles in 2011 12, versus 35 per cent for the 2010 11. produced.
Beijer started by setting up recycling stations 2.
Waste management atbranches and signing agreements with local waste contractors.
Since work began in 2001, the legal Wolseley moves large volumes of product through its supply requirements in Sweden have tightened and waste chain, generating non-hazardous packaging waste and some management has improved even further.
Efforts to improve damaged or obsolete stock.
The Groups businesses also create waste management are continuous, and Beijer target an smaller quantities of hazardous waste.
Denitions vary from additional 25 per cent reduction on waste to landll over country to country: hazardous waste may include items such as the next two years.
The cost of sending waste to landll is batteries, paint and electronic equipment: non-hazardous waste high andefforts to reduce the impact of waste produced typically includes materials such as paper, plastic and metal.
also serves to protect the bottom line.
Non-hazardous waste absolute Incinerated Land-lled Recycled Tonnes 000s 85 46 43 40 23 23 20 16 15 12 10 7 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Hazardous waste absolute Incinerated 3.
Water use Land-lled Recycled The majority of the Groups water consumption is related Tonnes 000s tonormal operational and sanitary use.
Although water consumption is not as material a factor in our operations as it would be for a manufacturer, we have continued to measure 1.28 1.10 water consumption throughout the Group in an effort to monitor our water consumption and identify opportunities to 0.79 increase our water efficiency.
Some of our local businesses 0.49 have targets in place for reduced water consumption but 0.25 0.19 0.17 0.04 0.10 0.08 0.07 0.06 targets are not required for all businesses and a Group-level target has not been set.
2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Absolute water consumption In 2011 12, 10 per cent of hazardous waste and 22 per cent of non-hazardous waste was recycled.
This compares with 7per cent and 27 per cent respectively for the previous year.
Cubic metres 000s The remaining waste was sent to landll orincinerated.
Whilst total waste tonnage decreased by 6 per cent, non-hazardous waste sent to landll increased by 8 per cent.
1,002 984 This is largely due to improved data accuracy, not worsening 831 786 performance.
Our business units strive to increase the proportion of total waste that is recycled, and reduction targets for waste to landll will help in achieving this.
Wolseley UKs Leamington Spa site, comprising the Wolseley 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 Center, the National Distribution Center NDC and the Sustainable Building Center now sends zero waste to direct This year, our absolute water use decreased by 6 per cent.
landll, after the three buildings all reached industry-leading However, the average water consumption per employee waste targets.
Following a complete change in the way waste increased by 3.1 per cent, largely due to improved accuracy is handled, 99.8 per cent of waste at the NDC and 97.5 per in our data reporting.
cent of waste from the Wolseley Center is now recyclable, meaning that just 2.7 per cent of the sites entire waste is compacted and sent for incineration to generate electricity.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 What are our objectives, how did we perform in Product Integrity 2011 12 and what are our objectives for 2012 13?
Metrics 2012 13 objectives How does Product Integrity underpin our Product integrity metrics To conduct risk strategy?
will begin to be reported assessments against At Wolseley, product integrity means ensuring that we during 2012 13.
These will allofour major product source and supply safe products that are of suitable quality focus on improving the categories.
In doing so we improve the reliability of our suppliers, To measure our Product efficiency of our processes, aim to improve our margins, reducing the value lost Integrity performance avoid liability arising from defective products and maintain or through defective products against agreed metrics.
grow market share through enhanced customer satisfaction supplied to us, and and confidence.
ensuring that we have sound contract procedures What does Product Integrity entail?
in place throughout our businesses.
Product integrity includes: ensuring that our products are reliable and robust, and safe when used for their intended purpose: and UK Awarded ISO9001 Certication understanding our business partners, the quality of their The UK business has achieved ISO9001:2008 certication, systems and how they conduct their business and provide an internationally recognised standard for Quality their services: and Management Systems.
Its nationwide branch network comprising Plumb and Parts Center, Pipe and Climate ensuring compliance with legal standards.
Center, Integrated Services and Drain Center, aswell as its distribution centres, are now certied under the standard, What did we achieve in 2011 12?
which is independently assessed by an accredited third We issued a Group-wide Product Integrity policy.
ISO9001 certication demonstrates that Wolseley has implemented an effective Quality Management System This is supported by a standard operating framework, throughout its business which satisfies all of the toimprove the integrity of the products we source.
requirements for the products and services it provides Business units have begun to implement more tocustomers.
However large or small the purchase, structured procedures for the evaluation of suppliers customers can be confident that Wolseley has the and products.
necessary policy, systems, processes and procedures tomanage resources and training, the placement of quality Some already conduct more systematic risk assessments in assured products on the market andthe preservation accordance with the newpolicy.
This activity will continue andhandling of product.
through the next financial year.
We continued to strengthen our timber sourcing policies and procedures.
In March 2013, the EU Timber Regulation EUTR will come into effect.
The regulation introduces obligations for conrming the integrity and source of products on the operator and or importer of the timber products.
Operators must implement a due diligence process which enables them to trace timber products at every stage in the chain of custody and to confirm their legality at the place of harvest.
Wolseley has already been assessing its timber products for a number ofyears and, working with a specialist business partner, hasdeveloped a system which we expect will meet the requirements of the EUTR.
Efforts to improve our commitment to product integrity arecontinuous.
In addition to the introduction of greater consistency in our processes, there is now closer collaboration amongst our sourcing and quality assurance and quality control specialists within the Group to ensure thatbest practices are shared more effectively.
Wolseley plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued We publish tailored sustainable-product guides in a number Sustainable of markets to assist customers in identifying better products.
Beijer, in Sweden, has developed a product label called Construction Green Choice which helps its customers to select productsthat enable improved energy-efficiency and reduced carbon emissions.
How does engagement in the Sustainable Where relevant our businesses are engaging with policy Construction supply chain underpin our strategy?
makers with regard to building regulations and retrot energy The requirement for sustainable construction is growing efficiency policy.
In particular, Wolseley UK hasactively atdiffering rates in our markets and, where the market participated in government consultation processes for the opportunity exists, we can gain market share by stocking Green Deal, the UKs agship energyefciency policy due sustainable construction products and by offering training for launch in autumn 2012.
Inaddition, individuals contribute and advice to our traditional customer base.
their time and expertise in the development of brieng documents and in otherwise contributing to consultations What does engagement in the Sustainable and legislative proposals.
What are our objectives, how did we perform in There is no standard denition of what Sustainable 2011 12 and what are our targets for 2012 13?
In general terms they include products that: The Board reviewed our approach to the market opportunity for sustainable construction products during 2011 12. improve the thermal efficiency of a building i. e, insulation TheCompany will not set prescriptive actions or targets in products, draft-proong : or this area at a Group level due to varying levels of market increase the efficiency of a buildings systems i. e, heating development and differing business strategies.
Business controls, energy-efficient lighting, water-efficient showers : units will continue to regularly monitor the market opportunity or for these products and will share expertise and best practice across the Group to facilitate market entry or increased generate clean energy i. e, solar thermal or ground-source market share.
The sustainability of a product also refers to its impact over its Wolseley UK engages with the Green Deal life-cycle and takes into account the scarcity of the materials that go into its fabrication, the environmental impact arising Plumb Center, in the UK, is developing its plans to engage from its production, and the waste impact atend of use.
in the Green Deal from autumn 2012.
The Green Deal is the UK Governments policy to achieve carbon savings Each of our businesses develops their product and service from existing buildings.
The basis of the Green Deal is to offerings according to local market conditions.
Engagement in provide capital to allow building owners to carry out energy the supply chain for these products can include the stocking efficiency work and then repay the cost of the work over and promoting of relevant products, and offering training an extended period through their electricity bills.
Plumb andadvice to both customers and our own employees.
Center, together with training partners Sevenoaks Energy Academy, is providing certied training and qualications What did we achieve in 2011 12?
for customers wanting to become Green Deal Advisors and Installers.
The first of Plumb Centers Green Deal We worked to engage our customers in sustainable Workshops took place on 14 June and was attended construction andendorsed by the Energy and Climate Change Minister, We recognise the need for traditional plumbing and heating Greg Barker.
Plumb Center is positioning itself as a key link engineers to be familiar with new renewable products in the Green Deal supply chain by providing their customers andsolutions, and have developed facilities thatallow with the products, skills and tools required to deliver customers to experience the products first hand.
Wolseley UK opened the Sustainable Building Center, the UKs first commercial showcase for sustainable building products and construction methods.
It has since opened anumber of renewables showrooms around the UK.
Wascoin the Netherlands and AG in Austria have also opened specialist energy showrooms to showcase the  or sustainable products.
Training is a key element of the customer proposition inthissector, with some Wolseley businesses developing comprehensive training courses and opening training centres to encourage the industry to get on board.
Equippingour own employees with the necessary expertise to sell into this market is equally important.
France launched Head of Sustainability, Tim Pollard left anked by lr Energy and Climate its EcoChantiers renewables model in 2010, training over Change Minister Greg Barker: Keith Jones, MD Plumb Center & Parts Center: 300 of their employees to be energy-efficiency and Darran Rickards, Product, Process & Logistics Director: and Simon Allan, renovation experts.
Director of Renewables, at the Sustainable Building Center, Leamington Spa.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In the UK, we are a member of the Corporate Community Engagement Partnerships Programme of the Princes Foundation for Building Community.
During the year, the Princes Foundation for the Built How does Community Engagement underpin Environment re-oriented its strategy towards the improvement our strategy?
Withits new name the Princes Foundation By engaging with the communities in which we operate for Building Community it focuses on the impact that wepromote our business, attract high quality recruits and community building can have on peoples lives.
This year gain a greater understanding of our customers, vendors Wolseley enhanced its support by joining the Corporate andemployees.
Community or charitable events serve to Partnerships Programme.
enhance employee skills and increase employee engagement.
Ferguson helpsthe homeless What does Community Engagement entail?
Ferguson associates at their headquarters in Newport Our businesses seek to be contributing members to the News, Virginia, recently participated in the Peninsula 50 communities in which they operate.
We also support a campaign to identify and secure housing for the most number of charitable organisations both at a Group and a vulnerable homeless individuals and families in its business unit level.
Our principal areas for charitable support community.
The local campaign is part of state and continue to be the alleviation of homelessness, the provision nationwide efforts to nd permanent homes for 100,000 of training for the homeless or marginalised in order to allow ofthe countrys most vulnerable homeless persons by them to return to work, and the improvement of the quality of July2014.
Associates from Fergusons headquarters the built environment.
Our businesses have also supported volunteered their time from 4 to 7am for three days, logging numerous other charitable causes, including support for names, phone numbers, health information and housing neglected and vulnerable children and provision of care for history, toidentify those most vulnerable to premature sufferers of cancer or other illnesses.
In addition to volunteer services, Ferguson has also given financial support to the Who is responsible?
Greater Virginia Peninsula Homelessness Consortium which brings together numerous non-profit organisations Community engagement is, by its very nature, a local activity working to secure housing and services for the areas and our corporate head ofces and individual businesses homeless population.
manage their own activities in this area to suit their own preferences and locations.
We encourage all of our employees to engage in charitable or community activities outside the workplace and we recognise the value that this brings to communities and the personal reward and new skills it can bring to our employees.
Our employees engaged in a great number of community and charity events.
For examples of the events and schemes our employees andbusinesses have supported over the last year please visit our website www.
We are in the third year of our partnership with Impetus Trust.
Impetus works to break the cycle of poverty by investing in ambitious charities and social enterprises that ght economic disadvantage through helping people to gain education, skills and jobs.
It uses a highly effective venture philanthropy model, consisting of management support from the Impetus investment team, pro bono specialist expertise and strategic More information on our funding, to accelerate the growth of those organisations.
CR programme, including Thishas led to impressive growth rates in charities Impetus further case studies, statistics and examples of has supported, on average increasing their annual income our practices, our employee by31 to 40 per cent.
Included in the Impetus portfolio is training programmes, BlueSky Development and Regeneration see our website awards and community for more details.
engagement can be found on the Wolseley plc website at http: www.
Further business unit information is also available on the websites of our subsidiary companies.
