How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Privacy WPP as an employer Our companies collect and use consumer data, which We seek to employ the best people from around the makes privacy and data security priorities for WPP.
world and develop their skills in order to continually The parent company provides guidance and advice exceed our clients expectations.
There is fierce to our companies on privacy and data security issues.
competition for talent in our industry, particularly To ensure that all our people have an understanding infast-growing economies and in areas such as of the basic issues, we have added privacy and data digital marketing.
security to our revised ethics training which will be Our talent strategy includes competitive rolled out to all employees in 2013.
We also held remuneration and reward, alongside a focus on atraining event on the EU Cookies Directive for diversity and inclusion, high-quality training and employees in the UK during 2012. employee engagement.
In 2012 we reviewed and updated all WPPs data WPPs chief talent officer, Mark Linaugh, protection, data security and privacy policies, and andour talent team assist our companies to attract introduced new policies covering social media, IT and develop our talent.
Human resources policies are and Security.
We developed a Data Code of Conduct agreed and implemented at operating company level.
a one-page set of principles for how WPP uses and protects data.
This is intended to help employees Diversity and inclusion understand our approach and to make decisions that reflect our principles.
The Data Code of Conduct Creating an inclusive work environment and andrevised policies were launched in early 2013. recruiting candidates from diverse backgrounds We will also launch the WPP Data Health widens our talent pool, fosters creativity and Checker, an interactive survey to be completed enhances our consumer insights.
bymanagement teams in every WPP company Our non-discrimination and anti-harassment worldwide.
Results will help them assess how their policies are included in our Group Code of current policies and practices compare to best Conduct.
In the case of disability, our policy is practice, and will provide valuable information toprovide continuing employment and training tohelp our Group digital, legal, IT and audit whereverpracticable.
teamsto target support where it is needed most.
Our companies focus on the following areas to Our key digital marketing and research promote diversity and inclusion in their workforce: companies nominate senior executives to provide Awareness and engagement: Training and leadership on privacy, and to work with other awareness campaigns reinforce the importance and companies in the Group, partners and clients.
business benefits of diversity and inclusion.
Company In 2012 we established a WPP Privacy Policy approaches include diversity working groups and Group for senior representatives from our agencies.
leadership councils, as well as professional networks Members meet monthly to agree Group-wide for diverse employees.
positions on key issues and to co-ordinate our Targeted recruitment: Specialist recruitment engagement with policy makers and industry bodies.
agencies and publications and minority recruitment fairs can help companies diversify their candidate lists.
Internships: Many companies support internship programs targeted at diverse candidates.
Partnerships: We work with diversity organisations and professional organisations whohelp our companies strengthen their approach todiversity.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 149 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Gender diversity 2008-2012 WPP Spectrum, developed in partnership with % women Young & Rubicam Group, to develop current and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 future multidisciplinary global client leaders.
Over Board members the course of a year participants explore the skills, executive leaders 32 32 31 31 32 knowledge and expertise needed for roles of this Senior managers 47 46 48 47 47 Total members 54 54 54 54 54 sizeand complexity.
In 2012, we In 2012, women comprised 32% of Board introduced a leadership training program in members executive leaders, 47% of senior managers Johannesburg, South Africa, for our Africa company and 54% of total employees.
The launch of the new program reflects twowomen on WPPs Board and a female Company growth in our business in sub-Saharan Africa.
Secretary, Group communications director and Developed in conjunction with the China Europe Group chief counsel.
International Business School, the four-day curriculum Data on ethnicity are provided in our covers skills for company leadership, business acumen Sustainability Report.
and entrepreneurship, marketing strategy and discussions around the impact of globalisation.
Development and training Education and social mobility We invest in training to strengthen and evolve our skills base in line with our business strategy.
Training We invest time, money and expertise in education takes place at Group and operating company level andsocial mobility programs to support our local and covers all aspects of company business and communities and help to make sure that, in the creative skills.
In 2012, WPP companies invested future, we have people with the skills we require.
57.8 million in training and wellbeing, albeit a We take a targeted approach, aiming to build long- 1%drop over the previous year.
term relationships in geographic regions that are Group-wide training programs include: strategically important to us.
This includes partnering Maestro: Orchestrating Client Value is our with the Shanghai Art & Design Academy SADA flagship executive education program.
This five-day tolaunch the WPP School of Communications and course is aimed at strengthening the ability of our Marketing in Shanghai, Chinas first marketing and most senior client leaders to be valued and trusted communications program focused on applying skills advisors to their clients, colleagues and teams.
The WPP Mini MBA curriculum is designed to build functional knowledge and abilities.
It combines Remuneration and share ownership online tutorials and simulations with instructor-led classroom training.
Business disciplines covered We ensure our people receive a competitive aremarketing, strategy, people and organisational remuneration package by benchmarking what we development, working across cultures, commercial provide against other companies in the relevant acumen and growing and winning business.
The X Factor is a senior mentoring and Many employees, in addition to their base pay, development initiative led by Charlotte Beers, the participate in performance-related incentive plans, former chairman and CEO of Ogilvy & Mather while more senior people may participate in shareand chairman of JWT.
The program takes place based compensation plans.
Incentive plans are over several months and prepares senior WPP designed so that they encourage and reward excellent female leaders for the next level of leadership.
performance in either their operational business area 150 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
