How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Access to digital marketing and insight business Opportunities associated with sustainable marketing Marketing standards and risk management Our clients require assurance that we meet best Privacy and data security practice standards for privacy and data protection.
Employment practices Strong policies and procedures at Group and Progress against our climate change strategy operating company level are essential, as is our Supply chain management involvement in the debate on changes to regulation Management of sustainability issues is governing the use of data in marketing.
decentralised, reflecting our Group structure.
Strategic direction and underlying policy principles Creating the right skills base are established by the parent company and summarised in the WPP Code of Conduct, Group Our investment in high-quality bespoke training Sustainability Policy and other key policies.
Detailed helps us to develop the skills needed to grow our policies are developed and implemented by WPP business in key areas such as digital marketing companies to reflect their businesses.
In Our Group sustainability function is responsible fast-growing markets, investment in education for strategy development, data collection, reporting beyond WPP helps to widen our future talent pool.
and communication on sustainability with Our focus on diversity and inclusion enables responsible investors, other stakeholders and our ustoreflect consumers in all the markets in which companies.
It works with Group functions, such as we operate.
our talent team, legal, communications, compliance, internal audit, real estate, IT and procurement on Reputation risk management sustainability and provides support and guidance toour companies.
The head of sustainability reports Effectively managing social, ethical and directly to the Group finance director.
environmental risks such as those associated with client work helps to minimise the possibility of damage to our reputation over the longer term.
Risk and opportunity The robust ethical policies and training we have implemented are essential as we expand the Group Our risk management processes cover both financial inmore markets where there is a higher risk of and non-financial risks.
Our key sustainability risks bribery and corruption.
include marketing ethics, privacy and data protection, employment practices and climate change.
Sustainability risks such as employment risks Sustainability management andmarketing ethics risks are included in our Brand Check process see page 159.
The Group finance Paul Richardson, WPPs Group finance director, director also provides an annual assessment of isthe Board director responsible for sustainability.
sustainability risks and performance to the He chairs WPPs Sustainability Committee, which Nomination and Governance Committee.
This is in ismade up of senior representatives from Group addition to the business and financial reporting risks functions and our companies.
Committee members process described earlier in this section of the report.
meet formally at our Sustainability Strategy Day held Reviews of sustainability risks may be included annually to review strategy and progress, share best ininternal audits or SOX audits depending on practice and identify opportunities for collaboration.
Significant findings are related to the In 2012 the Strategy Day covered: Audit Committee.
