How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review or in the share price performance of the Company.
Health and wellbeing The Company also provides a range of other benefits such as retirement provision and wellbeing benefits Our companies invest in initiatives to improve inaccordance with local practice.
thehealth of their workforce and to mitigate any Since 1997, we have operated a Worldwide health and safety risks.
This contributes to employee Ownership Plan that has granted share awards productivity and reduces the costs of people taking tomore than 118,000 employees.
In 2012 time off work due to illness.
approximately 48,000 eligible employees per year As an office-based business, the main health received awards in over 67 countries.
andsafety risks to our people are injuries connected to workstation ergonomics and work-related stress.
Communication Our companies assess the risk of work-related stress through regular staff surveys and by monitoring issues Regular communication helps our people in all raised via our Right to Speak helpline, Employee markets to keep up-to-date with Group news and Assistance Programs and during exit interviews.
In 2012, there were on average 3.4 days per Questions on sustainability are included in employee lost to due to sickness compared to 3.3 WPPcompany employee opinion surveys currently in2011.
These help us assess attitudes and awareness around the Group.
Employee external appointments Group-wide communications channels include: WPPs multi-award-winning public website We recognise that our companies executives may www.
com, Group intranet site, social media beinvited to become non-executive directors of channels and professional knowledge communities.
othercompanies, and that such experience may be WPPs multi-award-winning global newspaper beneficial to the Group.
Consequently, executives are and eBook, The WIRE.
allowed to accept non-executive appointments with WPPs public monthly online news bulletin, non-competing companies, subject to obtaining the e. wire, and monthly digital update, Digital Loop.
approval of the Group finance director in the case WPPs annual journal of original thinking, ofsenior executives.
The WPP Reading Room, an extensive online library of thinkpieces both public and original.
Environmental performance Our multi-award-winning Annual Report &Accounts, financial statements and Our aim is for WPP to be a low-carbon and SustainabilityReport.
This reduces costs and Regular FactFiles profiling specialist services reflects the expectations of many clients, investors andresources within the Group.
Improving our own performance Regular communication on Group initiatives enhances our credibility as communications advisors suchas the Worldwide Partnership Program, on climate change, supports our reputation and BrandZ, the Atticus Awards, the WPPED Cream helpsus to meet client procurement requirements.
Awards, the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program We participate in the CDP Climate Change and professional development workshops.
program, a collaboration of institutional investors, Our series of Navigator handbooks, which and were ranked in the B band for performance and provide a directory of specialist expertise and received a disclosure score of 81 out of 100.
We also individual experts within Group companies.
take part in the CDPs Supply Chain program.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 151 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Building a low-carbon Group monthly energy-use reports enabling companies tospot inefficiencies and improve performance.
Our climate change strategy is to reduce our carbon Weproduce an individual carbon footprint for every emissions by: company annually, distributed to the WPP company Improving the energy efficiency of our buildings CEO, and run workshops on sustainability issues.
Buildings: Energy efficiency is integrated into our Reducing non-essential flights by promoting property acquisition and capital expenditure processes videoconferencing.
and we aim for properties we lease, purchase, fit out Purchasing renewable electricity where available.
or renovate to meet advanced environmental Offsetting a portion of our unavoidable CO standards, such as Leadership in Energy and 2 emissions, equivalent to those from business air travel.
Environmental Design LEED and BRE Environment Our ambitious target is to reduce carbon Assessment Method BREEAM.
Around 8% of total emissions to 1.2 tonnes per person by 2020, a 65% floor space is currently certified to such standards.
In 2012, our carbon IT: To improve energy efficiency all new IT footprint was 2.45 tonnes per person, up 0.3% on equipment must comply with our power consumption 2011 and 28% lower than 2006. standards.
Through data centre consolidation, server virtualisation and the use of energy-efficient Carbon footprint tonnes of CO per person technology, we aim to achieve up to 40% reduction 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Target inpower consumption for key IT applications.
Approximately 50% of our servers are virtualised.
3.39 2.45 1.60 1.20 Our managed print program, which includes reducing 3.5 the number of printers, is helping to reduce energy 3.0 used for printing by up to 30% in each location.
2.0 Videoconferencing: We encourage our people 1.5 tomeet via videoconferencing, avoiding the cost 1.0 andcarbon impact of travelling to meetings.
In 2012, usage increased by 58% from 2011, with half Our absolute carbon footprint in 2012 was ofallcallsinvolving external links to clients and 283,334 tonnes of CO e rating renewable electricity suppliersand 30% of all calls involving tablet 2 as zero emissions, an increase of 2% over 2011, andsmartphone users.
which reflects a 2% growth in headcount.
When Renewable electricity: Around 16% of the total calculated with renewable energy rated as normal electricity we purchase is generated from renewable grid electricity, our total carbon footprint in 2012 sources.
Our renewable electricity purchases reduce was 307,102 tonnes of CO e. our total carbon footprint by 23,768 tonnes of CO e. 2 2 During 2012 our carbon data was reviewed by We aim to increase the percentage of electricity Bureau Veritas, an independent assurance provider.
purchased from renewable sources to 20% by 2015.
We aim to reduce our carbon footprint through Energy supply is often included in our contracts with the following initiatives: landlords.
We are exploring opportunities to fideInformation: We aim to empower our companies bundle energy to give us greater control over the with better information and tools.
We operate smart suppliers we use and the type of electricity we buy.
meters at 30 key locations that provide detailed Carbon offsetting: We offset a portion of our 152 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
