How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Providing sustainability marketing services to clients Stakeholder engagement is our most significant sustainability opportunity.
We engage with investors, clients, our people, suppliers, interest groups and others on Data and reporting sustainability, responding to questions and sharing our views.
This dialogue is useful to the Group WPP companies report their sustainability data to indefining its strategy.
the parent company quarterly through our Group We respond to regular requests for information financial reporting system.
from clients on our approach to sustainability issues We will publish our 11th social and environmental and we collaborate with them as appropriate.
For performance report in May 2013.
In 2011 we example, WPP is a member of Procter & Gambles appointed Bureau Veritas, an independent assurance Sustainability Supplier Board and helped it to pilot provider, to assure our carbon footprint data.
Their its supplier sustainability scorecard project.
findings will be published in our Sustainability Report.
To raise investor awareness of our approach to We received a number of awards for our reporting sustainability we submit this sustainability section during 2012: ofour Annual Report for share owner vote at our IVCA Clarion Award for Strategic AGM.
We responded to requests for information Communication for making our sustainability from the following organisations in 2012: reporting more accessible to key audiences through Bloomberg our Annual Report and Sustainability app.
Carbon Disclosure Project Golden Peacock Award for the progress we Dow Jones Sustainability Index havemade in responding to the needs of different Eco Desk stakeholders, and linking sustainability issues to Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS ourbusiness strategy.
FTSE4Good Corporate Engagement Award for the Goldman Sachs commitment of our companies to supporting Natixis charities and NGOs through pro bono work across Oekom the globe.
Sustainalytics Galaxy Gold Award for WPPs Sustainability Trucost Report 2011 2012.
Vigeo Digital Impact Award, Best Use of Digital WPP is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability forour use of digital media to communicate Index and the FTSE4Good Index.
sustainability to investors and clients.
PWC Building Trust Awards Highly Commended for People Reporting in the FTSE 100.
Embedding ethical behaviour Mercury Excellence Awards Gold award for ourSustainability Report and Silver for our All our people are expected to meet high ethical Sustainability Highlights iPad app.
To reinforce this, the senior management of each WPP company are required to sign a statement annually confirming that they comply withWPPs Code of Conduct.
The Code is supported by more detailed policies which cover issues such asgifts and entertainment and the appointment of advisors.
These are included in the WPP Policy Book.
