50 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review We are committed to sustainable, responsible business practices.
This report summarises our key achievements.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 51 This report summarises our key achievements: more detailed information is available on our website www.
com cr Leadership vision Accident Incidence Rate AIR Contractors Nothing is more urgent, nor important, 2500 than safety in the workplace and on our project sites.
Safety forms part of our 2000 commitment to quality and reliability.
It is derived directly from the values 1500 of our Company.
As we push to improve productivity and profitability we should 1000 never forget that safety must come first.
The implementation of our safety 500 standards is a leadership responsibility at all levels, worldwide and locally.
0 I count on your support, so we can 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 manage growth and change in Atkins Office Actual Engineering Actual Construction Actual in a safe and secure manner.
It is our Office Benchmark Engineering Benchmark Construction Benchmark shared responsibility.
Accident Incidence Rate AIR Staff Uwe Krueger 2500 Chief Executive officer September 2011 2000 Safety performance 1500 Comprehensive, transparent accident and near miss reporting is fundamental to our worldwide safety culture.
1000 Our accident incident rate AIR measures 500 our peoples and our contractors accident performance.
Our peoples 0 AIR performance remains better than 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 industry norms cf HSE Labour Force Office Actual Engineering Actual Construction Actual Survey, with a decrease in major injury Office Benchmark Engineering Benchmark Construction Benchmark accidents and a slight increase in minor accidents.
Similarly, contractor AIR performance achieved a decrease in major of the US Navy, died, while two other OSHA also adjusted the second citation, accidents, although there was an increase personnel managed to swim ashore.
which had no relation to the accident in minor accidents and a greater number This is an ongoing investigation fall protection, to the lowest severity of incidents and near misses.
level, other than serious, and reduced the associated penalty from US$7,000 Raising awareness of the importance Regulatory activity to US$6,500.
of recording unsafe behaviours has Occupational Safety and Health driven an increase in near miss reporting.
Administration OSHA issued two Unrelated to the investigation of the We will intensify our efforts in 2012 13 citations following its investigation into fatality, there were further legal to improve our already strong the fatality in 2010 at Houston Airport.
proceedings in 2011 regarding the performance in this area.
In 2011 an appeal was upheld and OSHA three citations issued to PBSJ by OSHA voluntarily withdrew the citation related following their visit in August September There was an accident in Diego Garcia to a safety procedure for ensuring that 2010.
Two of the three citations were in 2011, when a shing boat was hit by dangerous machines are properly shut withdrawn by OSHA at the start of the a wave and capsized.
The captain, who off and not started up again prior to hearing, but in a judicial decision the was employed by the Diego Garcia 21 the completion of maintenance or third citation was upheld as issued, joint venture in which Atkins had a 24.5% servicing work because Atkins was with a severity level of Serious and equity stake, together with a member not in operational control of the site.
an associated penalty of US$6,300.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews s n o s s e L d e n r a e L 52 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Safety awards and recognition In North America, Peter Brown We continually rene our behavioural As part of ACKtiv Nuclear, a joint venture Construction was awarded a 2012 Safety safety model to reduce the number of with Carillion and Jacobs, Atkins nuclear Star Award from the Associated Builders accidents and injuries and to increase business won a RoSPA Gold Award for & Contractors, Florida Gulf Coast Chapter, near miss reporting.
Safe by Choice the continued safe delivery of nuclear which recognises members whose has a measurable impact when it is projects to the highest standards.
companies maintain outstanding safety implemented: in one business unit, programmes that increase awareness minor incidents fell by 50% while near The UK Environmental Agency awarded of the importance of a safe working miss reporting increased dramatically, Atkins the Health and Safety Managing environment within the commercial indicating a greater awareness of safe Environmental Risk award for its work construction industry.
This is the third and unsafe behaviours.
on the Shaldon and Ringmore tidal time we have been honoured with the defence scheme.
Safety Star Award: we also received this Behavioural safety model award in 2008 and 2010.
Our behavioural safety model is tripartite: Atkins Safe by Choice campaign won safe by leadership, safe by design and safe the Engineering & Safety Award at the Behavioural programmes by choice with each element addressing UK Railway Industry Innovation Awards.
Our goal is for safety to become a natural different business risks.
Steve Wiskin, the UK rail business Safe part of our organisational culture, where by Choice manager, was named Rail we naturally prioritise safety in everything Safety Person of the Year in the annual we do.
Our worldwide awareness RailStaff Awards, which are run by programme, Safe by Choice, aims to raise Network Rail, London Underground our peoples awareness of safety issues Leadership and the Rail Alliance, while our Safe by and foster an innate safety culture Choice programme achieved a second through three pathways: safe by choice, consecutive RoSPA Gold Award.
safe by design and safe by leadership.
All are supported and developed through Safe Atkins in China joined a partnership lessons learned from proactive work with by programme and signed a Safety Charter colleagues, clients and our supply chain with the Occupational Safety & Health to improve safety, ensuring that it is fully Design gn n Choice C C C C C C Ch Ch Ch Ch Cho Council in Hong Kong, demonstrating our integrated into our decision making commitment to occupational health and processes and is valued as highly as safety in our workplaces and operations.
Driver assessment programme Our safety priorities Driving remains a significant risk for our business.
Driver assessment and training Objectives Actions Measure of success was deployed in the UK and North To embed behavioural Rene strategy and Reduced accidents and America to reduce driving related risks safety within Atkins.
programme, deploy injuries: increased and costs associated with accidents and worldwide.
In North America this To create a culture Deploy driver safety Reduced accidents and resulted in a 45% year on year reduction that promotes safe, programme worldwide.
Industry involvement Atkins in Denmark is represented on Our progress the Danish Association of Consulting Safety in design: a RAG red, amber, green list for designing water operations and Engineers health and safety committee.
tunnels was developed and distributed.
During the last year we have co-authored a publication on health and safety in Measuring Atkins safety culture: a Group health and safety assessment was construction management, chaired conducted, benchmarking each business against the Natural Safety maturity model.
workshops and presented at a variety The North American SHE culture survey results reected this years improvements.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 s n o s s e L d e n r a e L Reviews 53 We achieved a certied We launched our Raising absolute carbon reduction Awareness Cutting Energy of just over 7% RACE campaign in 2009 Carbon management Legal tool, resulting in our 2011 12 Atkins is one of the top three civil emissions being veried to ISO 14064 Verication of greenhouse engineering companies in the UK by the LRQA.
gas emissions Department of Energy and Climate Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Changes CRC Energy efficiency Scheme, We continue to report on gas, electricity LRQA Ltd has provided limited reecting our commitment to best and liquid fuel consumption for our assurance of our direct and indirect practice in managing our properties operations in Asia Pacic, Europe, the greenhouse gas GHG emissions data carbon emissions.
Middle East, India, the UK and North for financial year 2011 12 in line with America.
We also report on business ISO 14064-1.
This process covers our UK Carbon Trust Standard travel emissions for all our worldwide scope 1, 2 and 3 business travel Atkins was recertied under the UK operations.
Table 1 shows the total emissions in Asia Pacic, Europe, India, Carbon Trust Standard for the period emissions for each region and the split of the Middle East, China and the UK.
from 2009 to 2011, including both scope emissions between scope 1, 2 and 3 as Limited assurance means nothing has 1 and 2 emissions for all UK operations.
dened by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
come to the auditors attention that We achieved a certied absolute carbon would indicate that the data is reduction of just over 7%.
We launched our Raising Awareness not correct.
Cutting Energy RACE campaign in 2009 to raise awareness and cut energy Carbon emissions Our technical excellence is demonstrated We have gained a more detailed consumption in our ofces and depots, through our delivery of the biggest, most understanding of our worldwide with 70 locations worldwide participating challenging and time critical infrastructure carbon emissions over the last four to date.
Establishing a positive energy projects in the world, our low carbon years and have invested in the CRedit360 culture reduced our consumption by solutions and our great client relationships.
sustainability performance reporting 11.2% from 2009 to 2011.
Our industry leading stance on carbon drives our commitment to design and Our carbon priorities develop carbon efficient infrastructure and services for our clients.
Objectives Actions Measure of success More efficient carbon Deploy CRedit360 Reduction in improvement Carbon Disclosure Project data collection.
to gather carbon actions resulting from Leadership Index sustainability data.
The Carbon Disclosure Projects CDPs Improve energy efficiency Develop and deploy the Reduced carbon Leadership Index showcases those FTSE through employee teamwork.
350 companies with the most professional approach to corporate governance and information disclosure on climate change.
Achievements Atkins appeared in this Index for the We attained an outstanding RACE medal winning performance in key ofces second consecutive year.
in the Sultanate of Oman, the UK and Beijing.
Air conditioning equipment due to lease arrangements we only have operational responsibility for air conditioning equipment in a small number of UK properties.
We class all road travel as scope 1 emissions.
North America gures are not veried in line with ISO 14064.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 54 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Respect for the environment Atkins recently created the first estuary Excellence in delivery We maintain high levels of specic water quality goals for the Collier Business management system environmental stewardship.
County Coastal Zone Management Our business management system Department in south west Florida to is being embedded throughout our Waste protect the Clam Bay estuarys water UK operations, establishing common We continued to halve our waste quality and natural resources.
Our teams processes to improve performance.
In the UK our highways used a variety of scientific assessments Work to harmonise business controls and transportation business recycled to determine water quality.
supporting technical delivery is ongoing.
over 85% of its waste, representing a 5% year on year increase, while our Performance Technical excellence worldwide Gloucestershire highways contract There was one reportable environmental design principles developed a cold mixing technique incident in 2011 12: an oil leak from Our goal is for Atkins to be the worldwith reused coal mix tar, recycling a hydraulic hose went into a UK river.
We must deliver approximately 8,000 tonnes of material The Environment Agency was notied world class design to be competitive and and generating a potential client and was satisfied with our response in profitable, adding superior value and saving of over 1m in disposal costs.
There were 12 other outperforming the competition as we low level incidents, largely related to evolve to become the worlds best minor spills in the UK and North America.
In Denmark, Sweden and Norway waste infrastructure consultancy.
is used as fuel in district heating plants and is also recycled.
Safecall is a worldwide independent, World class design requires professionals condential telephone hotline, available with vision, creativity, intuition and Water to all Atkins people wherever they work.
technical ability working in a framework Atkins in China actively reduces water that systematises the design journey and waste by using sustainable drainage Safecall received a report in May from processes, enabling our professionals to systems for client projects.
The tourism an anonymous North American employee freely apply their creative abilities to meet consultancy and conceptual plan concerned about the use, storage and exceed client requirements.
developed by our Shanghai ofce and disposal of hazardous materials for Swan Lake in Dongying, China in the Atkins laboratory, Houston.
The most experienced designers in our is an example of eco friendly water The investigation found that hazardous organisation have developed universally reduction design.
materials were not being stored or accepted design principles to help us disposed of correctly and did not meet achieve our vision and support our drive Ecology and biodiversity current legal requirements, while the for worldwide operational excellence.
Atkins ecology experts run annual risks of using hazardous materials colleague seminars to raise awareness had not been correctly communicated of biodiversity and ecological issues, and employees had not been trained.
ecological constraints and opportunities A corrective action plan was issued, to increase project site biodiversity.
with all of the actions swiftly closed out.
Our environmental priorities Objectives Actions Measure of success Improve waste data Review centralised waste Comprehensive data for collection processes.
recording system usage worldwide waste and and benets.
Achievements A partnership project between Faithful Gould and the WRAP partnership is developing resource efficiency metrics, including, in addition to waste, embodied carbon, embodied water, scarcity, lifespan and construction energy use.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 55 Atkins is a patron of RedR, an international disaster relief charity which trains aid workers These core project delivery tenets Worldwide community engagement This years highlight projects include: recognise the evolutionary stages of Atkins in Chinas IDEA s Working in partnership with the a design from concept through to A team of young professionals at Atkins Institution of Civil Engineers and Hong final delivery, targeting operational in China launched our IDEA Involve in Kongs Caring Engineering Group, we excellence, risk management, continuous Design, Empower with Action charity launched a one year voluntary waste improvement and customer focus project 2008, in partnership with local project in Qing Yuan, China.
This the drivers for Atkins industry charities Humanity in Focus, the Hong project provided support and advice leadership and success.
Kong Outstanding Tertiary Students on managing and recycling waste Services Association and the Shower to a school in a remote village The Atkins design principles are now Talent Exclude Prejudice Design Team.
s 16 Atkins people participated in incorporated in the business management a house building programme for system as a directive, making them Every year the IDEA team coordinates, underprivileged gardeners in Kothanur, mandatory for all of our businesses designs and builds preschools with Bangalore.
Our volunteers participated and subject to audit, as are other parts unique identities and sustainable designs in making soil blocks, building of our business management system.
in places like India and Cambodia.
foundations and site clearing We continue to deliver award winning This year, Atkins 24 strong IDEA team s Atkins is a patron of RedR, an is designing and building a school in projects: for details please see our international disaster relief charity website: www.
Cambodia: they will also organise which trains aid workers and provides fundraising activities, seminars and skilled professionals to humanitarian Assurance exhibitions to encourage knowledge programmes worldwide, helping to save All Atkins operations retained their transfer and share their experiences and rebuild the lives of people affected management approvals for quality, health with colleagues throughout the region.
by natural and man made disasters.
and safety and the environment, meeting Our support includes raising and the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS Educational support donating money and encouraging our 18001 requirements.
Atkins in North Atkins is committed to positive employees to make themselves available America continues in their efforts to stakeholder engagement in the in response to major global disasters achieve QSE management approvals.
communities in which we operate, with s Atkins also supports educational a particular focus on supporting local establishments around the world: UK sustainable procurement education initiatives by deploying our for example we sponsor university Our sustainable procurement strategy, broad range of skills and expertise programmes aimed at developing certied by the Chartered Institute of as appropriate.
expertise like rail signalling at Purchasing and Supply, ensures that the KTH Royal Institute of our supply chain considers social, Technology in Stockholm, Sweden.
environmental and economic issues, the triple bottom line.
Our excellence in delivery priorities Objectives Actions Measure of success Implement common Deploy the business Business management processes to improve management system system globally performance.
Achievements The business management systems global rollout continues.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 56 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued s I n the US, we are promoting equal s Atkins in North America sponsored London 2012 sustainability learning opportunities through targeted the Emerald Coast Regional Envirothon achievements programmes and services delivered in Panama City, Florida.
This event is Our selection as provider to the London through Atkins STEM science, associated with North Americas largest 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games technology, engineering and maths high school environmental education demonstrates our peoples technical Digital Learning Initiative, which is run competition.
Reaching more than excellence, our ability to deliver world in partnership with Learning Ally.
500,000 students across North America class infrastructure projects and our Founded in 1948 as Recording for the annually, the Envirothons mission is leadership position, creating prime Blind, Learning Ally serves more than to develop knowledgeable, skilled and opportunities to showcase our market- 300,000 primary and secondary school dedicated citizens who are willing and leading sustainability strategy.
students, university and graduate prepared to work toward achieving students, veterans and lifelong learners balance between quality of life and Our experience and commitment to who cannot read standard print due to environmental quality.
Atkins sustainability are now being shared by blindness, visual impairment, dyslexia employees helped students learn about partnering the UK-Green Building Council or other learning disabilities.
Learning environmental professions they might London 2012 Sustainability Lessons Ally with support from Atkins is wish to pursue to help ensure that the Learned series, part of the Olympic creating as many as 200 STEM digital Florida Panhandle continues to be a Delivery Authoritys London 2012 biologically diverse region audio textbooks and promoting STEM Learning Legacy.
educational achievement through s Atkins in North America is active in continued advocacy, awareness and Community impact the Future City competition, which is outreach activities Atkins has designed and overseen sponsored by the National Engineers the installation of a new culvert that Week Foundation, professional and intercepts the overland ood route, technical societies and companies reducing the risk of ooding for almost in the US.
This programme is geared 4,000 properties.
to students in grades 6 to 8 aged 11 to 14 who, with guidance from an Sustainable sourcing educator and an engineer-mentor, In May 2009 the Olympic Board agreed compete against other teams as they that London 2012 will employ and plan cities, problem-solve and build maintain a clear and consistent policy for models using recycled materials.
mitigating the impacts of manufacture, Winning regional teams move on to supply, use and disposal of all materials for participate in the national nals.
As a significant Atkins support encourages students number of temporary facilities and to consider engineering and technical materials or overlay will be required for career opportunities at regional and London 2012 more so than at previous national levels.
Games so the selection of the materials and components used to create overlay and where they go afterwards is crucial in respect of sustainability.
Our community priorities Objectives Actions Measure of success Develop Group principles Activate the principles Community engagement on community worldwide through a and support is increasing engagement, investment strategically focused year on year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 57 Delivering excellence as provider to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games Short term usage Waste Delivery excellence In general, most sustainability assessments When Atkins designed the Olympic Park Two wetland bridges link the east and on materials tend to focus on permanent soil was reused and waste minimised to west areas of the Olympic Park.
Bridge or long term use rather than short ensure a positive ecological legacy.
In design reects the Olympic Delivery term use.
However, as a temporary addition, 4,000 smooth newts, 100 toads Authoritys objective of aligning high organisation the London Organising and 300 common lizards were relocated.
quality design with a consistent approach Committee of the Olympic Games and We managed the demolition of over 200 to sustainability, inclusivity and security.
2 Paralympic Games LOCOG looks to buildings and cleared over 1,300,000m The permanent sections of the wetland minimise any spend which may present of land, with over 97% of the material bridges are designed to meet legacy issues in respect of reuse and recycling.
being reclaimed, reused or recycled requirements, while the temporary on site.
sections will support crowd ow during Procurement framework the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Developed in collaboration with Atkins, Ecology and biodiversity Games and be removed afterwards.
the Temporary Materials Handbook Atkins prepared the Olympic Park site for The wetland bridges project is the provides a framework on how to manage construction work and created the highest scoring CEEQUAL project to date, the sustainability impacts of materials ecology for the largest new urban park achieving an Excellent 98.3% Whole 2 selection in a temporary context.
The in the UK for a century, relocating 1km Project Award.
CEEQUAL assessment of Handbook has been developed for the of open land, wet woodlands, wetlands, Atkins work on water, gas and electrical procurement, design and engineering reed beds and ponds.
Our ecologists utilities also achieved an Excellent rating teams in LOCOG and other key partners score of 87.7%, signicantly above the rescued local plants and wildlife ahead and stakeholders for the Games.
of the site clearance to ensure that local CEEQUAL threshold of 75%.
There are a 2 Carbon number of waterways on this 2.5km site.
Carbon reduction has been achieved by We developed a wetlands habitat at the the reuse of materials across a wide range core of North Park, which is a significant of projects.
Our designers, engineers and area surrounded by open space and the specialists have worked to transform hockey, basketball and velodrome venues.
2 2.5km of derelict urban wasteland to create the Olympic Park for London 2012.
During the design process, Atkins had a number of carbon tools at hand, supporting the teams in maximising the effectiveness of Carbon Critical Design.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews
