Group performance review 1 2 3 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Our business model See page 17 Our approach to Corporate Responsibility Stakeholders and materiality The Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility CR is an The Groups principal stakeholders include investors, customers, integral part of its strategy, with the Responsible Behaviour element employees, business partners, suppliers, non-government of Total Performance see page 16.
CR is focused on embedding organisations and the communities in which it operates.
responsible business behaviours by placing emphasis not just on Stakeholder feedback informs the Groups strategy and approach what the Group does, but how it is done.
BAE Systems aims to communicate openly with CR supports the long-term sustainability of the Group by managing stakeholders about its business.
Two-way dialogue helps the Group the current impacts of its operations and products, and anticipating to understand their views and concerns, and explain the Groups the future global business environment to ensure that it has in approach.
place: CR covers the areas identified by internal and external stakeholders responsible business practices to underpin business activities as having the most potential to affect the long-term sustainability of and support employees in making the right decisions to drive the Group, by directly impacting the Groups reputation or ability to business performance: operate outlined below.
The areas identified shape the Groups CR objectives and programmes, and are given priority.
a safe work environment for employees: The key CR areas and emphasis are: a diverse range of talented employees with a broad range of skills and capabilities to deliver against global customer requirements: Ethics and governance and Employee and product safety programmes to manage the environmental impacts of the Diversity and inclusion Groups operations and products, reducing the Groups carbon footprint and that of the Groups customers.
Operational and product environmental impacts Details of these areas are covered in this section of the report.
In September 2012, BAE Systems was confirmed as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability European Index.
CR objectives During 2012, the Group focused on four key areas: Ethics continuing to strengthen the Groups governance processes and policies to ensure that employees have clear Clear governance structures and visible leadership play a vital role guidance to enable them to make ethical decisions.
Employee safety embedding a safety first approach to the The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the Groups Groups operations so that all employees understand the ongoing commitment to CR.
He is supported by the Board and importance of a safe workplace.
Corporate Responsibility Committee in ensuring that appropriate Diversity and inclusion continuing to develop a diverse and policies, systems, reporting structures and metrics are in place to inclusive workplace which encourages innovation and enhances achieve the Groups ethical, social and environmental performance productivity.
Operational environmental impacts minimising the Groups The Groups CR team reports directly to the Chief Executive, and operational impacts.
supports the Executive Committee in embedding and driving CR processes and performance.
Performance is measured and risk Progress against the ethics objective is supported by Group-wide monitored throughout the year via the Groups six-monthly programmes and is discussed overleaf.
Operational Assurance Statement OAS see page 86 and Progress against objectives in employee safety, diversity and Quarterly Business Review QBR see page 84 processes.
inclusion, and operational environmental impacts is driven by The Groups Internal Audit team also assesses the effectiveness of programmes at reporting segment level.
These objectives are policies and processes relating to key areas of ethical and bonus-related for senior executives globally see page 99 of the reputational risk.
An overview of progress against these objectives is discussed on the following pages and within the reporting segment reviews see pages 59 to 75.
In 2012, the Group and individual reporting segments made good progress across all CR objectives.
See page 114 for more information on the Groups Community Investment programme BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED If employees are found to be in breach of the Groups Code of Ethics and governance Conduct or related policies, they will potentially be subject to disciplinary action.
In 2012, 292 employees were dismissed for 2012 objective reasons relating to breaches of the Groups standards and policies, Continue to improve and evolve the Groups business conduct primarily for personnel and workplace issues.
The Groups governance framework covers the products it makes and exports.
The Groups Responsible Trading Principles, Product BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics programme globally.
It Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export Opportunities Policy help continues to focus on driving the right behaviours by supporting employees make informed decisions about the business employees in making good ethical decisions and embedding opportunities the Group pursues and to address any responsible responsible business practices.
trading risks, including risks associated with the product and its Supporting employees in making ethical decisions is core to the intended end use, the country of origin and delivery, and the Groups ethics programme and governance framework.
Code of Conduct sets out the principles and standards of business The Group is committed to respecting human rights in its conduct expected of all employees wherever they operate and in operations, within its sphere of influence, including supporting whatever role.
It provides them with practical guidance on how to conventions on child labour and minimum wages.
deal with situations that may arise in their day-to-day activities.
It also includes guidance on where to go for advice, where to report The Group continues to support and help improve ethical standards concerns and information on the Groups Ethics Helpline.
During 2012, the Group chaired the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct IFBEC for the The Code of Conduct and related policies are supported by regular Aerospace and Defence Industry and remained a Task Force mandatory training for all employees.
During 2012, the Group rolled member.
IFBEC is committed to promoting high ethical standards out its latest employee ethics training programme which focused on through the adoption of Global Principles of Business Ethics for the making responsible decisions.
The training was based around a Aerospace and Defence Industry.
number of scenarios, each representing different working environments and subject areas.
Supplier management is important to the Group as it depends on its suppliers to help to deliver the products and systems its Detailed mandatory policies and procedures, including the Groups customers need, on time and to the quality they expect.
Poor policies on Fraud, Facilitation Payments, Product Trading and Export performance or unethical conduct by a supplier could affect the Control, are also available online for employees.
Groups reputation or its ability to operate effectively.
Additional compliance-based e-learning training is also targeted at The Group expects its suppliers to comply with local legislation and employees throughout the year.
For example, senior executives and to meet equivalent standards on issues such as ethical conduct, business leaders undertake the Groups Integrity in Business health and safety, product safety, the environment, civil liberties Dealings training covering our policies on Gifts and Hospitality, and human rights.
The Group also expects them to apply these Facilitation Payments, Company Giving and Conflicts of Interest.
All standards in their own supply chains and assesses compliance employees using the Groups IT system have been required to during the supplier selection process.
complete a number of training modules in IT Security and Export Control.
2013 objective Employees have the opportunity to get independent advice and Continue to improve and evolve the Groups business conduct support or report concerns via Ethics Officers, now in place across programme.
the businesses, or via the Ethics Helpline, which is also available to third parties.
During 2012, 1,024 enquiries were reported to Ethics Officers and via the Helpline.
The Group has seen a steady increase in reports and requests for guidance to Ethics Officers as they become more established within their businesses.
Enquiries to Ethics Helpline 2012 enquiries to Ethics Helpline Dismissals for reasons relating to unethical behaviour 500 1,200 400 485 351 350 1,024 1,011 1,000 400 300 870 355 800 734 300 297 298 292 600 200 507 200 400 100 86 100 200 65 46 42 28 19 14 10 7 4 0 0 2 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 If an employee is found to be in breach of All enquiries reported to Ethics Officers Q Employee relations and conduct Q Company ethical practices and via the Ethics Helpline were reviewed Q Guidance and advice Q Environmental, Health and Safety the Groups Code of Conduct or any other Q Labour expenses practices Q Procurement, trade and marketing relevant policies, appropriate disciplinary and reported either to the Ethics Review Q Management practices Q Quality or manufacturing issues Committee or, in BAE Systems, Inc. to the action, which may include dismissal, is 1 Q Open enquiries Q Contract compliance taken.
Q Security and misuse of assets Q International business issues Q Conflicts of interest See assurance statement on www.
40 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Group performance review During 2012, the Recordable Accident Rate decreased by 30%.
This Employee and product safety was ahead of improvement targets set.
This progress represents a fifth consecutive year of improvement.
Individual reporting segment 2012 objectives performance against this metric can be found on pages 59 to 75.
Businesses to demonstrate improvement against 2011 Regrettably, there was one work-related employee fatality in 2012. performance on recordable accidents.
Each accident is thoroughly investigated and lessons learnt are Continue to progress against the Safety Maturity Matrix.
Employee safety 2013 objective The safety of the Groups employees, and anybody who works on its Demonstrate improvements against key safety indicators, sites, is a key priority.
The Group wants everyone to return home including a 10% improvement in the Recordable Accident Rate.
safely at the end of each day.
The Groups goal is to continue to embed a safety first approach by providing training and tools that Product safety help employees understand the importance of a safe workplace, It is critical that the Groups products do what they are designed for and encouraging employees to take responsibility for their own without unacceptable harm to any third parties or the people using safety and the safety of those around them.
No complex and innovative product, whether used in defence or civilian markets or both, is without risk.
It is essential that the During 2012, the Groups global Safety, Health and Environment Group achieves an appropriate balance between the benefits they SHE Steering Group focused on reviewing high risk manufacturing provide to customers and the risks associated with their use.
activities which could lead to major accidents.
A working group was set up to establish minimum safety standards and processes, The Groups Product Safety Policy and practices are built on a set of which will be launched during 2013.
The SHE Steering Group also product safety principles that apply throughout a products life from monitored safety performance, including progress against the concept and manufacturing through to use and disposal.
The safety Safety Maturity Matrix SMM which was introduced in 2008.
The of the Groups products relies on the application of its safety SMM has helped drive consistent standards of safety across the policies and processes, and on the behaviours and attitudes of the Group.
Collaboration across the Groups safety teams was recognised Across the Groups businesses, there are a number of working during 2012 with a Gold award in the BAE Systems Chairmans groups that ensure a consistent approach to product safety by Awards category of Transferring Best Practice.
Safety teams worked sharing ideas and best practice.
together to support the launch of an employee safety programme During 2012, the Group continued to work with its customers to that can be easily transferred across businesses see page 71 for agree the level of safety required that is both ethical and lawful, the more information.
risks that are acceptable, and to deliver products that met that The Group uses a number of global metrics throughout the year to level.
At the start of 2012, the Group changed the metric used to monitor work place injuries from the Lost Work Day Case Rate to the Recordable Accident Rate.
The change in metric enables inclusion of a wider scope of accidents within its reviews, which is expected to lead to improvements in accident prevention.
The Recordable Accident Rate is the metric that has been linked to executive bonuses.
Recordable Accident Rate Major injuries recorded 2012 causes of major injuries recorded per 100,000 employees Q Slips, trips or falls on the same level 2,000 80 1 1 22 1 77 1 Q Fall from height 1 69 Q Injured while handling, lifting or carrying 1,669 3 Q Strike against something fixed or 1,500 60 59 stationary 53 3 Q Exposure to, or contact with, a harmful 1,162 substance 44 1,000 40 Q Trapped by something collapsing 4 overturning Q Struck by moving, including flying falling, object 500 20 7 Q Contact with fire Q Road traffic accident Q Injured by animal 0 0 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 The Recordable Accident Rate decreased Major injuries recorded decreased during by 30% during 2012, exceeding the 15% 2012 in line with the Groups overall stretch objective set by the Group see focus on accident reduction.
See assurance statement on www.
com  BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Increasing leadership diversity to ensure diverse candidate lists Diversity and inclusion for leadership roles, where possible, executive search firms were employed with a track record of open and inclusive recruitment 2012 objective processes, and drawing from an appropriately diverse pool of Demonstrate continued progress against the Diversity & candidates, with the overall aim of appointing the best person for Inclusion Maturity Matrix and establish milestones targets to the role.
underpin delivery of the stated 2015 position.
Measuring performance on a national basis, defined aspirational objectives and actions have been put in place to increase gender The Group is committed to creating an inclusive work environment diversity.
Gender diversity in leadership positions and succession in which a diverse range of talented people work together to plans is monitored.
improve business performance and productivity by helping the Group to remain competitive and innovative.
A more diverse At the end of 2012, 27% and 25% of the Board and Executive workforce has a greater range of skills and capabilities which helps Committee members, respectively, were women.
Globally, 20% of to better understand customers and their requirements.
the Groups workforce are women.
To support this commitment, the Groups long-term goal is to build a 2013 objective high-performing workforce that more closely reflects the diversity of Increase diversity and inclusion within the organisation in the local communities in which its businesses operate.
Across the Group, businesses have put in place plans to 2015 to support and progress this aim.
Highlights from these programmes See page 26 for more information on our people can be seen within the reporting segment reviews on pages 59 to 75.
Activities include the development of frameworks and steering groups, mentoring programmes, and training designed to support the improvement in the diversity of its employees and create a more inclusive work environment over the long term.
In 2012, the Executive Committee progressed actions to grow the female talent pipeline at senior executive levels, with an aspiration of continuing to achieve 25% female membership of the Executive Committee by 2015: Fostering a culture of inclusion unconscious bias training for executives globally has been scoped and will be rolled out during 2013.
The objective of the training is to enhance talent management decisions by raising awareness of unconscious and conscious bias that influence those decisions.
Accelerating the development of high-potential women an Executive Committee mentoring programme was launched during 2012 to leverage the readiness of high-potential women across the organisation and 24 high-potential women were mentored during the year.
This programme was supported by increased participation by high-potential women in training and development programmes.
During 2012, the Group continued to embed a diversity and inclusion strategy to support the recruitment, engagement and retention of talented employees from all backgrounds.
Q Male Q Female See assurance statement on www.
com  42 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Electronic Systems Cyber & Intelligence Platforms & Services US Platforms & Services UK Platforms & Services International Total Group performance review Engineers are given training and guidance via the Group-wide Operational and product environmental impacts Environmental Policy and Product Environmental Management handbook to promote understanding of environmental product 2012 objective design.
Continued progression against the Environmental The Groups Product Environmental Working Group develops Sustainability Maturity Matrix businesses to meet 2012 guidance documents and identifies good practices to share with targets for energy, waste and water.
businesses to promote consistently high standards.
Operational environment The Group works with customers to help them to understand the Businesses across the Group have environmental management environmental impacts of its products and supports them on their systems in place that monitor and manage impacts from environmental programmes.
For example, the Group works with the greenhouse gas emissions, material and solvent use, waste UK Ministry of Defence on their Sustainable Procurement Strategy.
products, and emissions to the atmosphere.
The Group also works with suppliers to reduce the environmental The Groups goal is to reduce the environmental impact of its impact of the products and services they supply, reducing costs and operations and products by using energy, waste and water more the Groups environmental footprint.
To support this, the Group efficiently.
introduced a Sustainable Procurement handbook to help purchasing teams understand and embed environmental standards During 2012, businesses set targets to reduce the amount of into the supplier management process.
energy and water used, and the amount of waste generated.
In total 1 during the year, energy use was reduced by 12%, water Working in partnership with a variety of organisations, the Group 1,2 consumption was reduced by 7% and waste generated was helps improve the environmental impacts of its business and the 1 reduced by 25%.
In the UK, the Group is a member of ADS Group, the Aerospace, Defence, Security and Space industries The Group monitors and reports greenhouse gas emissions, association, to help the industry prepare for, and respond to, primarily from energy use, on a Group-wide basis to understand its legislation on hazardous materials and environmental design.
Also global contribution to climate change.
This helps the Group to meet in the UK, the Group works with the Institute of Environmental the requirements of legislation, such as the UK governments Management and Assessments to develop environmental Carbon Reduction Commitment and the Australian National competencies for environmentalists and .
The Groups 2012 carbon footprint decreased by 12% against 2011 2013 objectives 3 to approximately one million tonnes of CO2 equivalent primarily due Set environmental improvement targets in line with the to the energy reduction targets achieved across the businesses Integrated Business Plan to include energy, water and waste.
Establish a monitoring and recording system for air travel.
The majority of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions come from the energy it uses in manufacturing and business travel.
Product environment The Group ensures that environmental considerations are taken into account throughout a products lifecycle from concept, design and manufacture through to use and disposal via the Groups Lifecycle Management LCM process see page 84.
LCM supports the Group in identifying and managing environmental risks, including reducing the environmental impacts of the Groups products during research and development, minimising waste materials during manufacturing, and helping to reduce product 1 Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
impacts when being used, upgraded and disposed.
2 Data excludes Ordnance Solutions Inc. and Saudi Arabia.
3 The Groups 2012 carbon footprint was externally compiled by the Coefficient Company.
Deloitte LLP assurance statement More information This year, Deloitte LLP assured the following performance More information on the Groups CR performance is available online at: www.
com  indicators at Group level: Ethics and governance employee and third-party enquiries to Stakeholder engagement Ethics Helpline total number and number by category and Support for local communities dismissals for reasons relating to unethical behaviour : Internal governance controls Safety Recordable Accident Rate, the number of major injuries recorded and causes of major injuries recorded : Deloitte assurance statement Diversity and inclusion employees split by gender and age : and Community total Community Investment programme donations see page 114.
Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance on performance indicators marked with a and reasonable assurance on performance indicators marked with a.
To see Deloitte LLPs assurance statement go to: www.
com  BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 43
