CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENT The two threads of corporate responsibility that run through our business are community and environment.
From the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Our corporate responsibility strategy is important to the ongoing GOVERNANCE success of the Company.
At Capco, we have an opportunity to The CR Committee, which I chair, ensures that CR initiatives and positively impact the urban landscape both environmentally and charitable donations are rmly aligned with corporate strategy.
We recognise that there is a great deal to achieve in both implementation of the CR strategy is managed by the CR Executive these areas and consequently we have set ourselves challenging Committee, which is chaired by Jill Pett, Director of HR and CR.
Capcos Business Code of Practice and Company policies set out long-term commitments to high standards of social, ethical and The two threads of corporate responsibility that run through environmental practices.
They also frame the CR annual objectives ourbusiness are community and environment.
By focusing on which are set and reviewed every year.
thesebroad themes, we have an opportunity to make a signi cant diff erence to the areas where our assets are based.
PROGRESS In last years Annual Report we set out our CR objectives for 2012.
An example of our commitment to promoting good environmental Inthe following section we report on the progress made against practice was the assessment and certi cation of both the Earls Court these goals and set out our targets for the coming year.
& Olympia Venues to ISO 20121, the international standard for sustainable event management, in June 2012.
Of our community activities, an initiative of particular note this yearis the Earls Court Education Programme which engaged students at both primary and secondary level with issues associated Ian Henderson with sustainable urban regeneration.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee We value the feedback received from our stakeholders on 28 February 2013 environmental and community issues and these views in uence thedesign of our future strategy.
The opinions of our employees aretaken into consideration when determining the direction ofourhuman resources strategy.
42 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key Some progress Satisfactory progress Good progress Commitment made Progress What we achieved in 2012 2013 objective last year Corporate CR Strategy embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work Continue to build engagement CR initiatives aligned to corporate strategy by the Continue to build engagement with the CR agenda across CRCommittee.
with the CR agenda across theGroup.
CR strategy is driven by the CR Executive Committee.
Continue to manage CR-related risks are included in the Capco risk register Manage potential risks on potentialrisks with care, and reviewed externally by Environ annually.
anongoing basis, escalating escalating concerns promptly concerns promptly Further information on the risk management process where appropriate.
Participate in the 2012 Carbon Capco participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project Participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project index.
andachieved a position in the lower third quartile Disclosure Project again and aim withinour sector.
Measure our performance Progress was monitored against speci c environmental Measure performance using usingthe Global Reporting and social GRI indicators.
Maintain membership of Capcos accreditation in the FTSE4Good Index Maintain FTSE4Good FTSE4Good and consider wasretained.
Since 2006 Capco has had a team basedin its Covent Garden estate, allowing the business to become an integrated and active member of the community as well as the majority land owner in the area.
Inits plans and vision for the area Capcorecognises the need for a highly collaborative approach with local stakeholders including the Covent Garden Area Trust, a body which protects the special interest of the Covent Garden Conservation Area and the Covent Garden Community Association, which looks after the interests of residents in the area.
The Covent Garden team is also represented on the Area 1 committee, agroup of neighbours, ward councillors, police representatives and stakeholders inthe area which meets regularly to discuss and agree solutions for issues facing Covent Garden.
This approach of embedding the business within the Covent Garden community has been instrumental to the overall success of repositioning the estate and creating value for the business through generating support for planning initiatives and new concepts.
COM 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Commitment made Progress What we achieved in 2012 2013 objective last year Corporate CR Strategy embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work Support charitable initiatives in This year the Group donated 104,150 to various charities Further support charitable communities in which we invest.
particularly those bene ting young people.
The Company initiatives in communities We particularly wish to help donated 39,500, representing 500 on behalf of every inwhich we invest.
We will organisations that support the head offi ce and Covent Garden employee, to selected continue to help organisations well-being and development of charities at Christmas.
TheEC&O charitable trust that support the well-being and young people in London with an collaborated with Hammersmith & Fulham Council development of young people emphasis on homelessness, insupport of its opportunity fund which bene ts inLondon with an emphasis on education, health and sport.
disadvantaged young people in the community.
The homelessness, education, health Wewill participate in and support Group contributed 10,000 to the trust during 2012. and sport, and appropriate appropriate charities linked to charities linked to the property theproperty industry and we industry, and continue our willcontinue our long-standing long-standing involvement with involvement with associations that associations that help injured help injured service personnel.
Continue to encourage Our Executive Directors, Chairman and Deputy Chairman Encourage shareholder shareholder involvement in engage regularly with shareholders and invite dialogue.
involvement in business business strategy and dialogue strategy and dialogue with The Executive Directors undertook 134 1:1 meetings with with the Executive Directors theExecutive Directors shareholders during 2012 and undertook roadshows in and Chairman.
South Africa, the United States andCanada.
Environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based Produce a carbon footprint map Capcos first carbon footprint, prepared during 2012, Continue to monitor our forCapco.
showed that we produced 15,321 tonnes of carbon dioxide carbon footprint.
equivalent CO e. Of this, 77% was from electricity usage, 2 14% from gas, 5% from waste and 4% from other sources.
By location, Earls Court accounted for 52% of emissions 7,984 t CO e, Olympia 27% 4,140 t CO e, Covent Garden 2 2 11% 1,707 t CO e, and 15 Grosvenor Street 2% 248 t CO e 2 2 with the remaining 8% 1,150 t CO e being produced by 2 The Brewery by EC&O, which was sold during the year.
Monitor and assess the success Following the success of EC&Os participation in the Develop the Carbon Voyage ofEC&O Venues participation Carbon Voyage scheme, the project was included as a case scheme in conjunction with inthe Carbon Voyage scheme.
study in a full Technology Strategy Board report on the other stakeholders.
Creative Industries Knowledge Transfer Network.
The most used part of the service is the shuttle service to Gatwick and then Heathrow, and we have started to engage with the major freight providers on this service.
Over the last year, we have engaged 25 major shows andevents companies in this initiative.
Continue to ensure our We continue to participate in the CRC scheme, purchasing Participate in the CRC scheme.
compliance andmanage our 160,000 of carbon credits for the current period.
participation in the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC scheme.
44 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Commitment made Progress What we achieved in 2012 2013 objective last year Environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based Aim for a 5% reduction in We achieved a 4% reduction, which equated to a fall of Achieve a 3% reduction in consumption on a like-for-like 514,793kg of CO emissions after adjusting the data to utilities consumption on a 2 basis against 2011 gures.
exclude the impact of Earls Court being used as an like-for-like basis against Olympic venue based on internally calculated gures.
Review the existing Energy We have completed a review of our Energy Performance We intend to continue our Performance Certi cates for Certi cates for those premises surveyed to date: 56% were work on EPCs, particularly Covent Garden to assess existing graded A to E. those properties within the F G performance levels and identify Bands and improve their ratings areas of concern.
Undertake a pilot study at Covent We undertook a pilot DEC study of two buildings, which Garden to prepare Display Energy achieved a Grade D and a Grade B. Certi cates DEC for several buildings and review the findings.
Minimise energy consumption We have developed our Seagrave Road energy strategy Work with contractors to ensure and CO emissions during the inline with the Mayors objectives to reduce energy waste to land ll is minimised, 2 design phase of the Seagrave consumption and CO emissions by various means.
targeting 50% plus being recycled 2 Road development in line with or re-used and implement a We will actively encourage sustainable living through: the Mayors energy strategy.
Construction Environmental Thiswill include using energy Management Plan.
Smart metering to monitor energy consumption: effi cient building materials Well-informed and trained Green Champions on-site In design phase, embed andcreating a sustainable who will promote recycling.
such as photovoltaic panels, Continue to review the inclusion meeting level 4 requirements of of sustainable elements in our the Code for Sustainable Homes.
development programme to All future major developments suitour occupiers.
inCovent Garden are to meet BREEAM for Refurbishment Very Good standard where constraints permit within a Conservation Area and when refurbishing listed buildings.
Aim to increase waste recycling At Covent Garden proactive management of our tenants During 2013, it is our from our Covent Garden tenants, waste meant we achieved zero waste to land ll with 33% of aimtoexpand our tenant produce reliable statistical data the diverted waste stream being recycled and 67% being used engagement programme on for ongoing monitoring and in an energy from waste process.
environmental issues such investigate options forrolling aswaste reduction, recycling We have renovated approx 92,500 sq ft of our existing this out across our estate.
All current major works meet and or Continue to work closely with exceed building energy effi ciency standards where In executing our major our contractors to minimise constraints permit within a Conservation Area and when development projects at Covent waste sent toland ll.
Garden, we will aim to achieve a target of less than 15% of At 15 Grosvenor Street, we are encouraging waste reduction waste going to land ll.
by providing desk-side paper recycling facilities to all staff and cutting down on non-recyclable waste.
During 2012 we increased our recycling output by almost 75% resulting in a saving of 8,610 kg of CO e. We expect this to stabilise in the 2 next few years but with some improvement.
The recycling statistics are published monthly on our Intranet and a focus on green initiatives is actively encouraged.
Assess ways in which we can Procedures are being put into place to monitor and record Monitor metered water usage create effi ciencies through metered water usage.
improved monitoring and reduced water consumption.
COM 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Commitment made Progress What we achieved in 2012 2013 objective last year Local Communities we make a positive impact on the local communities where our assets are located Continue to support community Earls Court Support community projects projects which speci cally As part of the 2012 Earls Court Education Programme, which speci cally bene t young bene t young people in London children from two primary schools participated in people in London and in the and in the areas where our assets development programmes related to environmental areas where our assets are located.
We then extended the programme into secondary schools and hosted the Big Debate between Henry Compton and Fulham Cross Schools.
As part of the Hammersmith and Fulham Partnership against crime scheme, the EC&O Venues team have continued to work with the police and local stakeholders tocombat gang crime in the area.
We encourage our contractors to employ local skills and will ensure that labour employed on the Earls Court development is from the local boroughs.
Covent Garden The Covent Garden team consolidated its strong relationship with the Covent Garden Area Trust and other local community groups.
The 2012 Schools Apple Market Challenge engaged 10 schools and approximately 600 young people in designing and marketing a product to be sold on the market.
The winning team designed a highly innovative, voice-activated lunch box.
In March Damien Hirst joined children from local schools in spin painting activities in conjunction with the Kids Company Charity.
Further enhance our property In March 2012 Earls Court was recognised as Exhibition Further develop our property management strategy for the Venue of the Year at the Exhibitions News Awards.
Olympia management strategy for the bene t of all stakeholders.
was highly recommended in the category of Exhibition bene t of all stakeholders.
Venue of the Year at the Events Awards.
The Covent Garden property management team have launched a number of initiatives for the bene t of stakeholders, including quarterly Customer Forum Meetings and sparkle weeks involving an enhanced cleaning regime in partnership with retailers.
King Street was re-opened in June following major works to improve the road surface and streetscape.
Health & Safety regular reporting and monitoring Update the H&S Management The Group H&S Committee, which is chaired by the Further improve our H&S Plan and further improve our Investment Director and includes representatives from all reporting across the Group.
parts of the business, meets twice a year and has implemented the H&S Management Plan across the Group.
The Capco Board and subsidiary Boards receive regular H&S reports.
With estimated combined visitor numbers of more than 50 million to EC&O and Covent Garden, there were 30 RIDDOR accidents reported for the year and no prohibition notices served.
In respect of the 326 employees there was one reportable incident.
In addition, each business holds its own meetings and promotes H&S with suppliers and contractors.
46 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Commitment made Progress What we achieved in 2012 2013 objective last year Capco people we employ people with a diverse range of experience and expertise Launch corporate intranet site to All staff attend regular business brie ngs given by Launch the next level of our improve internal communications.
Leadership Development Programme and further The intranet was successfully launched in September develop learning programmes and is updated regularly.
that will enhance the capability and performance of our people.
Implement internal development A leadership development programme was launched programmes that will enhance inSeptember 2012 and 60% of head offi ce and Covent the capability and performance Garden employees attended training during 2012. of our people.
Introduce Discussions regarding succession planning have succession planning at all progressed in order to ensure the ongoing success levelswithin the business.
Continue to encourage Capco staff completed over 275 hours of CR-related Encourage employees to employees to engage in CR activities during 2012.
This included team activities engage in CR initiatives initiatives and contribute such as the day the Finance team spent building a andcontribute 300 120Group employee hours newvegetable garden forthe Earls Court YMCA.
Groupemployee hours to tosupporting these projects.
Agree a CR-related personal objective for each employee.
We will encourage individual Employee fundraising of 4,000 was matched by Increase the limit set fundraising activities of our theCapco staff recognition fund.
for Company matched people and their immediate funding and encourage families through the staff individual fundraising.
programme is to develop the leadership process.
Furthermore, as part of our PEOPLE capability of the participants through a remuneration strategy employees participate The number of people employed across the combination of interactive simulation in our share schemes, ensuring alignment to Group at the year end totalled 326 of which sessions and practical skills workshops.
Delegates have developed a personal We value the well-being of our workforce As a consequence of recruiting the best development plan following participation andaim to encourage healthy and balanced peoplewith entrepreneurial air, we have ina 360 feedback process and have bene ted lifestyles.
Diversity is important to us and we high-performing staff who deliver Capcos from senior level mentoring throughout recognise the bene ts of employing people demanding business plan.
The ratio of women accelerate career development for individuals by giving them signi cant responsibility early We further support our people in their to men within our senior management team in their careers.
Our fast-moving business professional development through academic is 1:2.
Information on our approach to Board requires high performance at all levels and study and currently have six employees diversity can be found in the Governance weset clear objectives during a review process working towards professional quali cations.
section on page 51. which measures performance in key skills We have also introduced a series of lunchtime Aware of the challenges that young people andensures that individual goals are clearly seminars for staff covering relevant arefacing entering the job market, we aim linked to Company strategy.
toprovide work experience placements In 2012 we launched an internal Leadership We believe that high performance should be acrossthe business.
Development Programme for our senior recognised and therefore bonus awards are management team.
The aim of the linked to ratings received during the review WWW.
