REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY 1 2 e have identified and We publish a Sustainability assessed the key Report each year that explains our COMMITTED sustainability risks approach and our management of W facing the business, sustainability, governance and risk, which include Environmental, and includes the actions we have TOOUR Social and Governance ESG taken during the year to improve risks, andhave grouped these into sustainability performance.
fourkeyphilosophies so that Sustainability disclosures in this PHILOSOPHIES wecanmanage them effectively.
report and the Sustainability Thefourphilosophies: People, Report, including disclosures Partners, Planet and Customers onESG matters, are based on Our People, Partners, Customers and are underpinned by our information collected annually thePlanet are at the heart of what we do.
commitment to financial andfrom regular management performance and Health and information.
Each is led by a member subject to independent review of the Executive Committee andinternal audit.
whois responsible for developing and implementing sustainability People related objectives and targets to One of our key strengths is our achieve the overall sustainability people.
Despite a challenging strategy set by the Board.
economic backdrop, it is vital Thisensures that sustainability thatwe continue to develop their issues are embedded in the expertise.
Accordingly, we have normal course of business maintained our investment in anddecisions affecting vocational and leadership training sustainability issues can be programmes, as well as in implemented swiftly at an schemes promoting employee operational level.
This process development, engagement ensures that adequate information andrecognition.
in relation to ESG matters is The Barratt Academy available to the Board.
Significant continues to provide structured, ESG risks that could impact on bespoke training to support the future of the business are individual development across included in the principal risks three separate disciplines: anduncertainties section.
apprentices, site managers 26 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Chris Peatfield receiving his Rising Star Award at the National Graduate Recruitment Awards inApril 2012.
Site Manager LiamGilchriest and apprentices review plans at Trinity Village in Bromley.
annual divisional awards and annual national awards.
In addition, weoperate an instant recognition scheme, which during 2011 12 has awarded 1,100 prizes.
The expertise of our construction teams has again been recognised externally, with 76 2011: 80 of our Site Managers winning Pride in the Job quality awards from the NHBC.
This is more than any other housebuilder for an unprecedented eighth consecutive year.
Our target is to have a fullycertified Construction SkillsCertification Scheme CSCS operational workforce, including subcontractors.
At 31 March 2012, 98% 2011: 97% of the Groups workforce, including subcontractors, was fully CSCScertified.
toundertake voluntary projects we have maintained Partners Combining professional training intheir local community as part We recognise that, whether acting our investment in on-site and in the classroom with oftheir project management as sole developer, joint venture vocational and industry-recognised qualifications, module.
We are delighted that partner, client or contractor, leadership training our courses aim to deliver us craft oneof our technical graduates partnerships are vital to our and trade specialists, highly won the Rising Star award at programmes, as well as success.
We operate in many competent site managers and thisyears National Graduate areas of the market, from complex in schemes promoting employees with in-depth technical Recruitment Awards.
regeneration to advanced employee development, and commercial expertise.
In addition, we offer specialist environmental housing projects.
In engagement and The apprenticeship scheme skills training in core areas, such doing so, we create a legacy that comprises both trade and as health and safety, construction recognition.
goes well beyond the homes and technical apprenticeships.
and design and deliver a suite of commercial properties we build.
Apprenticeships last for two internally designed and delivered We continue to work with years and since 2007 over 330 management and leadership Government agencies and private apprentices have completed training courses.
These are landowners to identify and bring theirtraining with the Group.
designed to assist employees forward land for development, Weare delighted that one of our develop the skills required often improving its environmental apprentices, who has now been toprogress from middle condition in the process.
We work put forward for the Groups 2013 management through to senior with our suppliers to help them Assistant Site Manager management and other high introduce the new technologies programme, was awarded first performance leadership roles.
that we need to meet increasingly place in this years external Skill We remain focused on challenging building standards, and Build forthe Northern Region.
employee engagement and with our subcontractors to help We have a graduate duringthe year our fifth annual them improve their environmental development programme which engagement survey was and safety performance.
aims to recruit high potential talent undertaken.
These bespoke We engage in dialogue with into the business.
The programme voluntary surveys allow us to local people and local authorities lasts for two years and graduates develop engagement plans in order to seek to address any are given the opportunity to spend throughout the business aimed impact that our developments time in each of our operational atfurther improving the Groups may have on the local departments, whilst attending relationship with its direct environment, and we respond to business and personal employees.
We continue to community aspirations by creating development courses.
Alongside recognise outstanding individual new jobs, training young people the formal training programme, and team performance across and supporting local initiatives.
graduates are also encouraged theGroup through quarterly and Byholding public exhibitions, BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY weinvite stakeholders to talk closely with both the local Planet Proportion of construction waste segregated forrecycling on-site toour specialist planners and community and the Princes We are committed to our architects about their concerns Foundation to develop a master sustainability policy and we and aspirations for our plan incorporating 247homes.
continue to work hard to improve 96% developments.
We believe the design of both our homes and 2011: 95% thatagenuinely collaborative Joint venture and partnership our developments to deliver high approach will deliver more land opportunities quality sustainable places to live, Percentage of our customers who would and housing with the backing We continue to explore JV and and also to create accessible Recommend us to a Friend oflocal communities.
partnership opportunities which developments that integrate We have always been either allow us to access projects withexisting communities.
concerned with housing that may otherwise not be Through our strict design 98% affordability issues and have available, or reduce substantially requirements, we have ensured 2011: 98% worked closely with financial the investment required.
that our developments meet a institutions and Government for Work on site at our major benchmark standard, creating Number of our site managers winning anumber of years to improve partnership developments with exemplary schemes which include NHBC Pride in the Job Quality Awards access to mortgage funding for London & Quadrant L&Q open spaces and communal customers.
As a result we are continue to progress well.
During 2011 12, 145 acres currently working with a number 27-storey residential tower at of open space were created within 76 of partners to help people gain Alie Street on the edge of the our developments, and we are 2011: 80 access to appropriate housing.
City of London was 40% sold delighted that our scheme at We are currently active on at 30 June 2012 and work has Pickering Community Park anumber of public and private commenced on the Ashburton wasthe winner of the Best sector partnership sites.
Park Grove regeneration project CommunityInitiative at this years Prewett in Basingstoke and Cane adjacent to the Emirates Stadium National Housebuilder Awards.
Hill in Coulsdon are two schemes in North London, which will create This scheme incorporated where we are working closely 375 newhomes.
InJuly 2012, community event areas, withthe Homes and Communities we announced ourthird major allotments and conservation Agency.
At Scotswood in partnership development with andpicnic areas.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, we are L&Q at Fulham Wharf.
This We acknowledge that the partnering with Newcastle City scheme, onthe north bank of nature of our business impacts Council on a 15-year mixed-use the River Thames, comprises 463 onthe local environment and project, and in Castlewell in apartments, anew foodstore and wecontinue to strive to reduce Aberdeenshire we are working arange of food and leisure outlets.
this impact, both during and We are committed toour sustainability policy and we continue to work hard to improve the design of both ourhomes and our developments to deliver high quality sustainable places to live, and also to create accessible developments that integrate with existing communities.
1 28 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Rob Berry, Commercial Manager at DWH South West, carries the Olympic Torch in Bristol.
Jim Toothill and Angela Hurley part-exchanged their first David Wilson Home to move up the housing ladder at Castle Heights, Church Gresley.
Helena Towers 50th Barratt FirstBuy purchaser at the Willows, Morden.
Customers Customers are at the heart of ourbusiness.
We understand thatour customers want support when making their purchase, and we are committed to offering the highest standards of quality and customer service, as well as good value, well-designed homes.
Our Customer Care Charter Our Customer Care Charter, which is available on our website, ensures we remain focused on ourcustomers throughout their journey with us.
We are committed to continuing to improve the customer experience, both on-site and online, and we regularly obtain feedback from all our customers at key points in the sale process.
2 New product range We have carefully considered post-construction, by undertaking customer preferences in the Construction waste segregated on-site for recycling significant brownfield development of the Barratt and % development, by delivering high David Wilson product ranges.
09 73 quality regeneration projects and Both brands have been updated 10 91 bymonitoring our waste and in the last year with internal layouts 11 95 energy usage.
designed with modern living in 12 96 In the year to June 2012, mind, providing free flowing living webuilt 65% 2011: 67% of areas and natural light.
The new ourhomes on brownfield land.
designs were well received by Atthisyears National Housebuilder consumers and we continue Awards, our Bluebell development torollout both new ranges.
in Nuneaton was the winner of Customer feedback indicates theBest Regeneration Project that Barratt homes remain value Award.
Ineach of our divisional for money and offer customers offices, Green Teams have been high quality practical living space.
established in the last 12 months The room proportions have been todevise and implement schemes designed to ensure that they are to reduce energy usage at a large enough to accommodate locallevel.
In addition, we are ourtypical customers furniture delightedthat three of our requirements, whilst ensuring our employees were recognised external designs are aesthetically inBuilding MagazinesTop 50 pleasing.
Due to smart, ergonomic Rising Stars in Sustainability.
design a Barratt customer can We monitor the proportion expect a wide range of features, ofconstruction waste segregated creating great value for money.
for recycling on-site, which this Following customer feedback, year improved to 96% 2011: our David Wilson family homes 95%.
In addition, all divisions have been provided with more within the Group continue to generous circulation space that operate an environmental delivers an overall sense of management system certified grandeur.
They include features toISO14001 which is subject suchas more indulgent kitchens, toregular monitoring and audit.
en-suite bathrooms with larger baths and the use of multiple roof 3 lights in bedrooms.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY Communicating with toourproducts and the financial ourcustomers arrangements between the Group Our sales and marketing team and our customers.
These hascontinued to promote our standards exceed the industry brands throughout the year using requirements as specified by focused marketing campaigns.
theCouncil of Mortgage Lenders This included use of the internet, andthe processes are subject radioand direct mail, targeted toregular internal audit.
incentives and discounts for In addition to existing lenders, customers, as well as tools such we actively pursue relationships as shared equity products and with prospective new lenders to part-exchange.
the UK new build market in order We recognise that the online to support the development of market continues to change new financial products.
During the last recently this has taken the form 12months we have enhanced ofaffordable top-up loans on thedesign and content of our asecured and unsecured basis websites to ensure a customers which give customers access to first enquiry delivers all the alternative means of bridging the information they require.
continue toenhance our online user experience and quality of Customer satisfaction content through greater use of Our high quality homes have e-brochures, video, 360 degree beenrecognised independently by tours, imagery of planned the achievement for the third year developments and house types, running of 5-Star builder status inaddition to comprehensive inthe HBF annual customer information about the local area.
This shows We continue to invest inthe thatover 90% of our customers technological capabilities ofour questioned were satisfied with on-site sales centres, ensuring thequality of their new home and oursales advisers have the would Recommend us to a Friend.
most up-to-date information We monitor customer immediately available to deliver satisfaction with all of our acustomer experience that is customers being independently informative and hassle-free.
contacted nine weeks after legal completion and asked to Assisting with complete a survey.
Over the last mortgageproducts five years these surveys have We recognise the importance shown increases in customer ofhelping our customers find satisfaction and we are pleased suitable financial products to that in the year ended 30 June purchase their new homes.
The 2012 98% 2011: 98% of our Groups Head of Mortgage Lender customers would Recommend Relations works closely with the us to a Friend.
We monitor the banks that provide mortgages results of the survey on a monthly 1 toour customers to ensure that basis throughout our business.
there is an appropriate range ofproducts available.
We also Five year warranty We monitor customer satisfaction participate as fully as we can We are the only volume with all customers being inthe Government-backed housebuilder to offer a five year schemes, such as FirstBuy warranty which covers fixtures independently contacted nine andNewBuy.
and fittings that is additional to weeks after legal completion All our divisions and brokers theten-year NHBC warranty andwe are pleased that 98% have implemented our Grouponthe fabric of the building.
of our customers would wide processes for dealing with lenders and surveyors.
These Recommend us to a Friend.
ensure that we provide them withtransparency in relation 30 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Windmill Place, Thame, Oxfordshire, comprising a collection of 97 homes around a new open public space, a short walk from the town centre.
Tony Bird, Senior Site Manager for our Kings Green development, receiving his NHBC National Health and Safety Award.
2 Health and safety our Renaissance scheme in The health and safety of our EastLondon was judged the employees, our customers and overall national winner in the the public remains a top priority Multi-storey category.
The Groups Safety, Health and Environmental management system SHE issubject to continuous review andimprovement and conforms to thehealth and safety standards OHSAS18001 and ISO14001.
Allour trading divisions adhere tothe SHE guidelines and ongoing compliance is verified bya programme of internal and external audits.
During the year we carried out over 5,000 monitoring visits and achieved anaverage compliance rate of96% 2011: 96%.
We also measure health and safety performance by monitoring the Groups reportable Injury Incidence Rate IIR.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2012, our IIR reduced by 5% to511 2011: 539 per 100,000 persons employed.
We are committed to seeking to reduce the IIR year-on-year and we are working with our suppliers, partners and local communities tominimise the risk of injury.
Injury Incidence Rate At the NHBC Health and Per 100,000 persons employed Safety Awards 2012, the Group was awarded 30% of the total 09 571 awards in the Large and 10 582 Multi-storey builder categories 11 539 and 13 of our site managers were 12 511 recognised for excellence in health and safety.
The Group received five commended and eight highly commended awards, within which BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
