Directors Report 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility In recent years, BBA Aviations CSR activities have become Every day our people put our values more aligned and more focused across the Group.
Our CSR into action with pride, performing goals are actively promoted and supported by management services for customers safely, systems at all levels.
Through this we are able to make a bigger difference in the areas we choose to focus on.
Stretching health and safety and environmental targets are Corporate Social Responsibility CSR applied at each of our businesses down to site level and we is embedded in BBA Aviations vision, have formal frameworks and policies in place that guide behaviour and assist us in areas such as Business Ethics, mission and values and is fundamental Community Involvement and Charitable Giving.
to our objective of creating sustainable long-term value for all our stakeholders.
CSR is important to our stakeholders and our aim is to achieve continuous improvement in all aspects of CSR every year.
We involve our employees personally in these efforts Mark Harper and invest in new technologies, equipment and training and Non-Executive Director and CSR Responsible Director development programmes where we believe we can make adifference.
Our businesses have much in common and plenty to learn from each other and we encourage working together, sharing ideas and good practices.
On the BBA Aviation website www.
com you can read more about BBA Aviations approach to CSR including downloadable copies of our current and past years CSR Reports together with copies of our relevant policies and case studies showing some of the varied projects BBA Aviations businesses have been undertaking.
Directors Report 47 Corporate Social Responsibility BBA Aviations Approach to CSR External reporting, recognition and rewards The following is an extract from BBA Aviations Approach to BBA Aviations commitment to the environment CSR policy document which is reviewed each year by the and to health and safety continues to be recognised Board.
The full document, which deals with additional areas by our customers, our business partners and by such as Business Ethics, Transparency and Human Rights can accreditation organisations.
be found in the CSR section of the BBA Aviation website.
Awards Shell Goal Zero award Health and Safety The Green Organisation, scheme, Health, Safety, We are committed to achieving a working environment National Green Hero Award Security & Environmental which is safe, secure and which supports healthy lifestyles APPH Nottingham Two Double Platinum Awards We will aim to pursue, achieve and promote best practices ASIG London Gatwick Dallas Water Utilities, on Health and Safety specific to the aviation industry Blue Thumb Award for Shell Goal Zero award environmental protection, scheme, Health, Safety, Employees pollution prevention, Security & Environmental We value the diversity of our employees and promote an water conservation Double Platinum Award Dallas Airmotive ASIG London Luton inclusive environment recognising the importance of equality of opportunity The Green Organisation, Shell Goal Zero award We support employees through training and Green Apple Environment scheme, Health, Safety, development, encouraging them to expand their Award Silver winner Security & Environmental H S Aviation Gold Award capabilities and realise their potential ASIG London Stansted Chicago Department Environment of Aviation, Four Green Shell Goal Zero award We will manage, and strive to reduce, our environmental Airplane Certification scheme, Health, Safety, Signature Chicago Security & Environmental impact through the more efficient use of the resources Gold Award our businesses consume Conoco-Phillips, ASIG Birmingham We will support innovative developments in Safety Award technologies that support our business objectives and ASIG Doncaster Shell Goal Zero award scheme, Health, Safety, can offer environmental, community and social benefits LAN Chile, Safety Ground Security & Environmental Handling Award Gold Award Community ASIG Los Angeles ASIG Bournemouth We will identify opportunities to benefit local Shell Goal Zero award communities where we operate through community scheme, Health, Safety, involvement and charitable giving Security & Environmental Gold Award ASIG London City CSR KPIs Details on the positive trend in BBA Aviations CSR KPIs can be found on the next page of this report for both health and safety and environment measures.
We have been a member of the FTSE4Good index as BBA Aviation plc since 2006.
We have also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006.
Directors Report 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Health and Safety Safe tow pins BBA Aviations health and safety strategy seeks to deliver a zero incident environment in which all employees take responsibility.
The Group-wide Recordable Incident Rate RIR at the end of 2012 was 3.04, an improvement 13 of 1% on 2011.
160 out of 252 BBA Aviation reporting locations achieved an RIR of zero during the year, demonstrating the growing maturity of our safety improvement programmes.
Some highlights are shown in the table below: Tow it like you own it Platinum pins awarded In 2012 Signature Flight Support introduced a new employee Notable achievements recognition programme to Signature 27 sites have had no Recordable Incidents and enhance its already successful 51 Flight Support 3 sites have achieved over 5 years since their last safe tow compliance policy.
Recordable Incident The programme gives formal recognition to those who carry ASIG 29 sites have had no Recordable Incidents and out safe tows of aircraft using Gold pins awarded 2 sites have achieved over 5 years since their last coloured aircraft shaped pins: Recordable Incident silver for 100 safe tows, gold for 500, platinum for 1,000.
ERO 7 sites have had no Recordable Incidents Signature had awarded 320 256 Legacy Support 2 sites have had no Recordable Incidents pins by the end of 2012.
APPH All APPH sites achieved a Zero RIR result in 2012 since start of 2007 or since opening where later Silver pins awarded Environment Electricity use BBA Aviations environmental reporting system requires each site to record its use of resources, enabling each to track progress and to focus on measures that will drive continuous improvement in performance.
-36% The table below shows the trends over the past five years in the Groups environmental KPIs which are normalised for comparison purposes to dollars Hangar lighting upgrades White Plains, New York of revenue.
We use the services of an external consultant to review BBA In Signatures Northeast region Jan May 11 vs Jan May 12 Aviations process for collecting and consolidating this data and are prepared projects were undertaken to replace older, less efficient hangar for the future implementation of greenhouse gas emissions reporting.
lighting systems with the intention of lowering electricity -23% Units 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 consumption.
Traditional Metal Halide type fixtures were replaced Electricity KiloWattHr 55,188 66,621 71,926 58,689 70,352 with T-5 fluorescent installations Consumption $m revenue and ambient light and Morristown, New Jersey occupancy sensors were added.
GHG Emission Tonnes 61.45 75.31 81.42 57.71 55.80 Jan May 11 vs Jan May 12 A comparison of total electricity $m revenue use kWh at each site for the same Water Thousand litres 196 213 244 192 234 period pre and post installation Consumption $m revenue indicates that the projects have made a significant contribution Revenue $m 2,136.7 1,833.7 1,686.1 2,138.8 1,958.8 to an overall reduction in use.
2012 figures available in Q2 2013 Directors Report 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Employees BBA Aviation women Our businesses provide each of our employees with specific and relevant job-related training and personal support while, at Group level, we develop programmes for example leadership and general skills training that can 17% be implemented across all sites.
Developing our talented employees is important for the future leadership of of senior executive positions Working together on training BBA Aviation.
A number of internal appointments and promotions were In line with BBA Aviations focus made this year as part of developing our talent pool.
Further leadership on sharing knowledge and best practice between teams, development initiatives will follow in 2013. maintenance employees at two 22% Dallas Airmotive regional turbine BBA Aviation is also continuing to implement the local action plans that were centres Charlotte and Millville developed following the 2011 employee engagement and safety culture received hands-on aircraft tow training from Signature experts in of total employees perception survey and focus groups.
This work has led to a number of February 2012.
Signature performs successful new projects and will continue in 2013. over 270,000 aircraft movements every year, making it the ideal partner for ERO locations keen to improve tow training and procedures.
ERO and Signature have also collaborated on ergonomics training at Signature bases.
Community Joplin relief effort BBA Aviations Group-wide Community Involvement and Charitable Giving Framework sets out the approach our sites should take to projects, volunteering and fundraising in their local communities.
1,000 Each of our sites and businesses recognises the importance of being a good neighbour and contributing to the community in which it operates.
Having this Volunteering hours Making a bigger difference framework has led to a more structured way of working and has encouraged In May 2011 Joplin, Missouri was hit our businesses and employees to focus on fewer, more ambitious activities, by the deadliest tornado seen in the USA since 1947.
Joplin is less enabling our teams to make a bigger contribution to the causes that they than 30 miles away from ERO's $13,255 careabout and fostering longer-term relationships with those organisations.
Premier Turbines facility in Neosho.
Local ERO employees provided an Charitable giving programme immediate response to the disaster, donating food, clothing and Donated by ERO employees BBA Aviations parent company charitable giving programme is designed to ongoing support for the clean-up complement and enhance the many fundraising and community activities of the affected area.
ERO has undertaken by BBA Aviation employees around the world.
Since 2010, the continued its support through programme has donated more than $650,000 to organisations with strong fundraising events and over 1,000 1,000 volunteering hours.
ERO's efforts led local connections to BBA Aviation sites and to organisations in the aviation, them to win the Community and engineering or education sectors.
environment award in the BBA Aviation Leadership Awards 2011 12.
