Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Business Review consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable Environmental Policy development within the UK.
recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are presented by climate change.
In addition to our key objectives, the Group has identified a number of specific priority areas upon which we particularly focus: consideration of environmental aspects in the Bellway is one of the largest housebuilding groups in selection and procurement of land for development, the UK.
The housebuilding process affects the including implications for biodiversity and environment by the use of land and consumption of sustainable development.
resources throughout the development process.
It is meeting and where possible, exceeding government our objective to ensure that, at the conclusion of a targets for the redevelopment of brownfield land.
development, an attractive and desirable new environment has been created that will be sustainable influencing the design of sites, housing, and fittings over time.
to minimise the effects on both the natural and built environment.
Recognising that we have responsibilities, not only to limit the negative effects of our operations on the providing environmental benefits and minimising environment, but also to enhance it, this statement sets nuisance arising from construction activities and out our policies for managing the environmental preventing pollution on development sites and aspects across our business.
Key objectives are to: consideration of environmental issues within our corporate functions and everyday business minimise any deleterious effects on the environment decision-making processes.
and where possible to seek environmental enhancements, concentrating on areas where The above statement will be balanced against economic thereismost room for improvement.
aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed all relevant environmental legislation and regulations.
set specific environmental objectives and periodically review progress against these objectives to ensure that Bellways environmental aims and their importance are communicated throughout the Group, including to appropriate sub-contractors, suppliers and other parties, and that a copy of this policy statement is displayed in all Bellway sites andoffices.
