Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 1 2 1 Forest Walk, Callander, Perthshire 2 George Carey Church of England Primary School, Barking Riverside, London Borough of Barking & Dagenham, built as part of a Section 106 planning agreement recognise and respond to the challenges and Business Review opportunities that are presented by climate change.
Corporate invest in the communities we develop in a way that contributes to local community needs.
Responsibility Policy manage our environmental footprint and aim toenhance our performance in areas where we operate, particularly in relation to energy and waste.
consider and respond to the social and environmental effects of the homes we develop and communities that we create.
Through sustainable construction we aim to create The following structure has been put in place to achieve new communities and lasting environments for people these commitments: now and in the future.
the Chief Executive is responsible for this Bellway believes that its reputation is critical to the policyand reports to the Board and external creation of long-term value for its shareholders.
stakeholders on the performance of all corporate We recognise that financial success is reinforced by responsibility matters.
our behaviour beyond the balance sheet.
Protecting and enhancing our reputation and social licence to the Chief Executive is supported by the operate are significant elements of sustained financial Corporate Responsibility Group which includes success.
senior employees from within the Group who are responsible for the development and review of At Bellway, the term Corporate Responsibility this policy.
They in turn delegate to managers within describes how we manage the environmental, social each of the divisions who are responsible and economic effects of our business.
Through Bellways commitment to corporate Bellway is committed to reporting annually on its responsibility we: approach to corporate responsibility and has established engage and respond to stakeholders, including key performance indicators to enable others to judge shareholders, employees, customers, government our performance.
This policy does not replace existing and communities that we affect thereby improving policies in relation to environmental issues and health and internal and external awareness.
safety, but has been developed to work in conjunction with them.
All policies are available on the Bellway comply with all relevant legislation as a minimum website www.
co. uk and are reviewed annually.
work towards recognised good practice in sustainability and corporate responsibility.
treat all employees fairly and invest in training for the medium and long-term to bring out the best in our people.
provide a healthy and safe environment in which to work through an effective health and safety management system.
demonstrate continual improvement in our approach to sustainable developments in both design and practice.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 The business environment is constantly evolving and recent years have seen an increasing emphasis on corporate responsibility.
Thisevolution has been reflected in mounting pressure on business for greater transparency andaccountability in environmental and social performance alongside economic performance.
Water management is now a national priority.
Business Review Lastyear110 sites were developed using Sustainable 2012 Corporate Urban Drainage Systems SUDS.
In Rochester, Kent, our development used porous paving which provides Responsibility several benefits.
It reduces the volume of water run-off and therefore negates the need for the construction Statement ofnew sewers.
It also reduces the pressure on existing water courses while replenishing natural ground water reserves and captures pollutants especially hydrocarbons in the sub-base that would otherwise have entered drainage systems.
Over the last 12 months the focus on climate change At Hither Green in London, we are developing a former has continued to grow and the effect of climate change biscuit factory.
Prior to development, the site was on the planet is a cause for concern which is genuine covered in hard standing, allowing substantial water and must be taken seriously.
The way we live consumes run-off.
The redevelopment of the site has allowed natural resources and it is up to all of us to manage usthe opportunity tointroduce a water management these resources prudently.
system using cellular blocks that provides underground water attenuation using flow valves that permit water to Our table of Key Performance Indicators KPIs enter the public sewers at a reduced rate.
The scheme demonstrates Bellways performance covering a period has been designed to cope with a one in one hundred of up to five years against a range of headings and shows year storm together with a 30% increase to the progress we are making in, for example, reducing accommodate future climate change.
waste and introducing more renewable technology.
This year we will be introducing new measures into CREATING ENVIRONMENTS TO ourCorporate Responsibility programme to improve AUGMENT ECONOMIC GROWTH AND the collection and reporting of data and we will be EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES assisted by a third party adviser, Trucost, who are a leading provider of environmental information.
This year saw the first home owners moving into our large brownfield regeneration scheme at Barking in east In 2009 we published five strategic principles that govern London.
This site was an industrial area once used for our approach to creating sustainable living environments: electricity power generation.
The site has over half a mile protection of the environment in which we work.
frontage on to the River Thames.
Our initial phase of development, comprising 139 social and 157 private prudent use of natural resources.
homes, is currently in the course of development.
creating environments that have the potential Inconjunction with our partners and well ahead of our to augment economic growth and employment legal obligations we have contributed substantial funds opportunities.
towards the development of the Rivergate Centre which incorporates a new primary school, a place of worship social considerations that recognise the needs and community facilities such as meeting rooms and ofachanging and advancing population.
Jobs have been created during the the development of communities that will construction of this large facility and permanent job endureand where people will aspire to live.
opportunities are available to help with the day to day running of the centre.
Needless to say a new school The following examples demonstrate how Bellway constructed early in the development process goes a isperforming in relation to these principles.
long way to creating a sustainable environment.
PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS TO MEET THE AND PRUDENT USE OF NATURAL NEEDS OF A GROWING POPULATION RESOURCES Almost 800 homes have been constructed during All timber used in the construction of our homes thecourse of the year to Lifetime Homes standard.
Floor coverings Thisstandard means that the design of the home is andfloor joists are constructed from waste timber flexible and can be adapted to changing life-time needs.
Our underground drainage suppliers are Floor joists are constructed to accommodate the nowusing up to 50% of regraded polymers in the possibility of a lift or hoist.
The downstairs WC will manufacturing process.
These are examples of supply typically be designed to accommodate a future shower.
chain management reducing our reliance on the use There were 1,614 homes constructed last year on sites ofnatural resources.
where the layout was designed using a Secured by Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Design initiative.
This creates an environment where the Unlike solar hot water panels photovoltaic PV panels public realm in particular is safeguarded as far as is generate electricity from sunlight which can then be used reasonably practicable from vandalism and theft.
Last year we installed 592 PV panels which, we estimate, reduced CO2 emissions by around 710 tonnes.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES Almost 69% of our developments last year were WORKFORCE constructed on brownfield land, namely land with aprevious use and our site at Eastleigh, near The building industry relies heavily on the abilities of Southampton, isa typical example.
It was previously a itsskilled craftsmen and alarge number of our cable manufacturing facility with 12,500 square feet of employees have worked for Bellway for many years, office accommodation.
It is now being re-developed with having started their careers with the Group.
We use over 300 new homes and the office block is being several measurements to judge the performance of brought back into beneficial use.
A travel plan is being our workforce, including customer satisfaction which in put into place which will subsidise the cost of bicycles respect of the metric Recommend Bellway to a friend, for residents.
In recognition of our focus on customer satisfaction, we were, this year, awarded 5 star Our development on the south bank of the River Tyne status in the HBF customer satisfaction survey.
Every at Gateshead, which was once a redundant railway year the NHBC audit our sites and award Pride in the siding, is now being re-developed with a mixture of Job Quality Awards and this year, 23 of our site almost 700 town houses and apartments together with managers received an award and we are particularly a three acre office park.
This site is within walking proud in this regard of Gary Sidney, a Site Manager distance of the iconic Sage building and a town centre from our East Midlands division, who received a that is undergoing large scale re-development.
Our regional award for his work at our Poppyfields development has views over the river and will provide a development in Nottinghamshire.
This marks our fourth safe and attractive new community on what was once consecutive year of improvement.
The health and safety of our employees, sub-contractors, customers and members of the general public is a key REDUCING W ASTE priority of our business and a copy of our Health and One of the key objectives of our Environmental Policy Safety Policy is displayed in each Bellway site and office.
is to minimise any adverse affects on the environment A system of monitoring our work places, including and we believe by conducting our operations in a socially areas open to members of the public and methods of responsible way both the community and Bellway will work are continually monitored by both our in-house prosper.
As detailed in the table of KPIs on page 19, over health and safety team and external health and safety the last five years the amount of waste being taken to consultants to ensure risks arebeing identified and are land fill sites has reduced.
A simple measure of this either removed or reduced to the lowest practical level.
performance is the number of building skips used for We continue to run specific initiatives to raise health and every home sold.
Managing spoil not onlyreduces our safety awareness.
This year, in particular, we are targeting cost it reduces the amount of waste material leaving the the safety of operatives engaged in off-loading materials site and also saves the Company substantial sums of from delivery vehicles by handing out safety leaflets and money where the cost of hiring a skip can be as much displaying posters on-site to promote best practice.
On a site in Nottinghamshire we have adjusted land levels to retain some 50,000 cubic Our commitment to high standards of health and safety metres of spoil that would otherwise have gone to has been recognised by both RoSPA and the NHBC.
Crushing demolition material on site to be During the year four of our sites received commendation recycled as hardcore under footpaths and roads awards for health and safety from the NHBC and, isnow common practice.
inaddition, we have received a silver award from RoSPA, recognising the Groups robust health and safety ENERGY EFFICIENCY SUPPLY CHAIN management practices.
Our policy also recognises that we need to respond CHARITABLE DONATIONS tothe challenges and opportunities that are represented by climate change.
Our environmental aims are The Company operates in a variety of different communicated throughout the Group, including communities.
Despite, and because of, the harsh appropriate sub-contractors and suppliers.
This year, in economic climate, Bellway continues to support a range conjunction with our suppliers, we have been trialling a of charities and this year we have donated 45,875 new building block which, during manufacture, is fired at covering a broad range of areas, but with a particular areduced temperature compared to traditional concrete focus on housing, health, young people and the blocks and so emits less harmful CO2.
Inaddition, our employees also operate block is constituted from 20% recycled sawdust, paper their own charitable initiatives, including, for example, and minerals.
We found that using this block reduces dress down days.
theconstruction process by approximately six weeks for Further information concerning our approach to an average sized home.
Trials are still being undertaken socialresponsibility can be found on our website but we are hopeful in future it will be used more widely www.
Last year we installed 514 solar hot water panels, which save energy and reduce fuel bills for occupiers and as a renewable energy source they also offset carbon emissions.
According to The Energy Saving Trust an average system will save around 250kg ofCO2 per year when displacing a gas heating system.
We estimate that, as a result of installing these systems, over a 12 month period, we prevented around 128.5 tonnes of CO2 being emitted in to the atmosphere.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18 1 2 3 1 Work in progress on new homes at The Alders, Wolverhampton, West Midlands 2 Pupils from Sayes Court Primary School visit The Oaks, Addlestone, Surrey 3 Preparing a home for inspection byits new owner
