58 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corpora te soCial responsibility We choose to abide by a CSR philosophy which is founded on a commitment to make a positive change to the economy, socially and to the environment via our regeneration projects and right across the land bank.
59 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Acquiring brownfield sites, remediating and transforming them into cleaner, greener and brighter environments where businesses and communities can thrive: this is the essence of what we do.
In turn, it promotes positive social, economic and environmental change.
Pictured: The 135,000 sq ft newfacility for Siemens in Lincoln.
Comprising 50,000 sqft of office space and an 85,000 sq ft technologically advanced service workshop, the exacting standards ofSt.
Modwen and its partners resulted in the facility achieving aBREEAM Outstanding rating inrecognition of its sustainable design.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 60 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Acquiring brownfield sites, remediating and Apprenticeships Rugby and transforming them into cleaner, greener Longbridge and brighter environments where At both of our sites in Rugby and in businesses and communities can thrive: Longbridge we have built new Colleges this is the essence of what we do and it Warwickshire College and Bournville brings about job creation, provides new College, respectively.
Both offer courses amenities, infrastructure and affordable inconstruction and to ensure weleave a housing stocks and helps to improve legacy beyond the built environment, we andenhance the environment.
In turn, have entered into agreements with both itpromotes positive social, economic institutions to appoint a number of local andenvironmental change.
students to work on our sites, learn important skills, gain site experience and As a long-term business with a diverse ultimately employment opportunities.
portfolio of assets, it is difficult for us to capture a true picture of the positive In addition to working with schools and differences we make by compiling tables colleges, we work together with Local ofannual Corporate Social Responsibility Authorities to promote employment locally.
Instead, we choose to abide Our partnership with Enfield Borough by a CSR philosophy which is founded on Council to promote their Jobsnet via our a commitment to make a positive change Edmonton Green Shopping Centre, an to the economy, socially and to the initiative to help unemployed Enfield environment via our regeneration projects residents back in to work, has been Above: and right across our land bank.
running for around five years.
It provides Bournville College, Longbridge CV advice and printing, application form weappoint a number of students to work on our sites asapprentices.
completion and interview techniques, ECONOMIC signposting to relevant free training Our network of regional offices means schemes and a job search facility.
wecan be sensitive to local needs and Throughthe opening of new shops and understand the economic requirements encouraging new businesses to the area inany given area.
Where possible, we for example Wilkinsons which opened seekto employ local skills on our earlier in 2012 we encourage the schemeseither directly, across our supply employment of local residents via Jobsnet.
Due to their location, we are also able tooffer affordable rents across many ofoursites which encourage smaller andmore local businesses to the area andindoing so, helping them to thrive withinthenewly built infrastructure andimproved environment.
61 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 SUSTAINABILITY We have a responsibility to employ the most sustainable and environmentally friendly techniques across our build projects.
One of the reasons why we are successful with planning gain is because we work closely with the Environment and the Highways Agencies to make sure our schemes meet their high standards and toensure that they meet the requirements of planning authorities.
We pay particular attention to recycling materials on site, using sustainable materials, conserving energy, reducing our consumption of raw materials and minimising waste production.
This year wehave achieved some excellent results for recycling and reusing materials on site:99% of remediated materials 2011:99% and 90% of construction waste 2011:88% have been used again It is fundamental to the success of our SOCIAL on our sites, minimising disposal to landfill developments that they create a sense of and reducing the need for heavy Many of our sites are located in deprived or belonging.
We take public consultation construction traffic on the roads.
There was run down areas and in transforming these seriously and listen to the views of the local a slight decline in the percentage of areas we instantly provide people with community and wherever possible, demolition products reclaimed for retention asense of place, crime rates reduce implement their constructive suggestions on site or recycling 2011: 96%.
This is a andpeople start to feel proud of the into our schemes.
Beyond securing direct result of demolishing a series of community in which they live and or work.
planning gain, we want tocreate places dilapidated former MoD, car manufacturing For example, in Wythenshawe, Manchester that make communities proud and leave and town centre buildings which for example, crime rates have steadily alegacy for generations toenjoy.
comprised materials unfit for recycling decreased by around 20% over the last elsewhere on site.
Our own housebuilding brand, St. Modwen Homes, differentiates itself from larger We aim to help local charities and national housebuilders by assuming a community groups, not only financially localdeveloper mentality and allowing through donations but by offering them adesign-led approach to be taken to theuse of our buildings across some of boththe built form and the external oursites that are awaiting redevelopment.
By adopting this approach, AtLong Marston, Warwickshire, we were we give considerable thought to public able to offer the local Police the use of realm and how we deliver it, to ensure some of the former Ministry of Defence wecreate a real heart for the communities buildings and the surrounding space we are developing.
Recycling reclamation on site 2012 Achieved 2011 Achieved 2010 Achieved Percentage of remediated materials reused or recycled 99% 99% 99% Percentage of demolition products reclaimed for retention on site or recycling 93% 96% 94% Percentage of construction waste reused or recycled 90% 88% 75% Top: Wythenshawe, Manchester where our 100m investment in the town centre has resulted in a steady decrease in crime rates.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 62 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The new facility comprises 50,000 sq ft The reuse of topsoil locally and arisings CASE STUdY, SIEMENS ofoffice space and an 85,000 sq ft remaining on site further minimised landfill Perhaps the best example of St. Modwens use.
These measures all contributed to the technologically advanced service sustainability ethos is our delivery of a new development being able to achieve a score workshop.
It includes the benefits of low 135,000 sq ft office and workshop facility of 36 out of 40 under the Considerate orzero carbon technology with just under for Siemens in Lincoln which was Constructors Scheme.
9,700 sq ft of photovoltaic solar panels completed towards the end of 2012. fitted across the service workshop roof.
St. Modwens project team took great care A long-standing tenant of St. Modwen Thermal and lighting zoning will further to preserve the natural habitat at the site already located in Lincoln, Siemens gas contribute to the annual energy savings and implemented measures for long-term turbine service business decided to atthe facility.
mitigation of biodiversity, including the relocate its operations from four sites to Situated in one of the driest areas of reintroduction of tree and flower species.
one facility that would meet its current thecountry, the team carried out careful The site was designed with consideration business needs and enable future growth.
selection of sanitary appliances with for noise attenuation, so that noise levels Our existing relationship with Siemens reduced flush volumes and flow rates only ever rise by five decibels above meant we were well placed to act as its tosave considerable amounts of water.
development partner for the relocation.
This was achieved through regular A and A Green Guide rated building Together, we concluded that the new noisereadings, no out-of-hours deliveries materials were selected and all stone facility must provide the right balance of and liaison with the local Environmental andaggregates used at the facility were viability and aesthetics in building materials, Health Officer.
sourced from within 30 km of the site.
a highly sustainable design and operational St. Modwen and the project team also Supply chain and key process materials ethic, and high standards of ecological and devised a plan to promote alternative were selected exclusively from landscape management.
modes of transport, including discounted manufacturers with ISO 14001 EMS public transport, secure cycle parking and certification, whilst more than 90% of car sharing schemes.
In line with the waste generated during construction was innovative plan of the building and diverted from landfill to a specialist waste Siemens own strong sustainable transport contractor to sort and recycle.
focus in Lincoln, the design team also included Siemens advanced two-hour, twin-headed electric vehicle charging equipment in the car park to ensure the facility can support low-emission transport and remain future-proof for the foreseeablefuture.
The exacting standards of the project, which have been met by St. Modwen andits partners have resulted in the facilityachieving the BREEAM Outstanding rating in recognition ofitssustainable design.
A multi-million pound pre-let and development deal was agreed with Siemens on a 12 year lease.
It is anticipated that Siemens relocation has the potential toattract 500m of business investment tothe region over the next 10 to 15 years, which could equate to many thousands ofjobs.
This will not only significantly bolster Lincolnshires manufacturing and construction industries, but should also lead to much-needed opportunities for highly-skilled workers in challenging marketconditions.
Top: The new 135,000 sq ft Siemens facility benefits from zero carbon technology.
Left: Thermal and lighting zoning will further contribute to the annual energysavings at the facility.
63 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Demonstrating the potential that our sites St. Modwen Environmental Trust SUSTAINABILITY continued hold to enhance the green environment, Affiliated to the Governments Landfill Tax Trees and open spaces our site at RAF Uxbridge was also selected Credit Scheme and regulated by St. Modwen recognises that with a land by the Woodland Trust as the location for ENTRUST, the St. Modwen Environmental bank of over 5,800 acres, there are huge one of its Jubilee Woods in conjunction Trust provides valuable support to opportunities to maximise the use of green with Hillingdon Council.
community and environmental projects spaces both within its own developments across the UK.
In 2012, over 65,000 and also on any undevelopable acreage New Austin Park Longbridge, wascommitted to eight projects across and in doing so bringing cultural, social, Birmingham We have just thecountry.
economic and environmental value to commenced work on the 2m Austin thisland bank.
Park that will be the green heart of However, after six years the Environmental Longbridge town centre and will feature Trust is coming to a close, and 2013 will be Some of the interesting environmental a 255 metre stretch of the River Rea its last year of operation.
We intend projects that are taking place across our which has been buried for nearly toidentify other environmental and across our land bank are illustrated by the 100years.
community projects to support in following two examples: thefuture.
This is the first public park to be built in Diamond Woods Trentham Estate, Energy efficiency South West Birmingham in the last fifty Stoke-on-Trent The North Park, At the outset of development the methods years and when complete in 2013, will within the Trentham Estate, Stoke-onof reducing the energy demands of our feature footpaths, seating areas, a Trent is one of just 60 Diamond Woods buildings are considered carefully.
pedestrian footbridge over the river and across the country in The Woodland Also, wecontinually explore ways in which more than 20,000 plants and 550 trees.
Trusts Jubilee Woods project, which we can create efficient ways of supplying marks HM The Queens 60 years energy toour tenants which benefits asamonarch.
 as Parkland and heathland restoration will wellasthebroader environment.
th include revealing both the hidden 18 We are due to start on site in 2013 with our century parkland landscape designed first Solar Park.
This will be situated on 30 by Capability Brown, as well as the acres of surplus land at our 10,050 acre remains of the Patte dOie Gooses Baglan Bay site in South Wales, formerly Foot Lime Tree Avenues and historic the site of a BP petrochemicals plant which drive to the west.
we have fully remediated since acquiring it The first phase of this five-year scheme in 2009.
The Park will house over 21,000 commenced in February 2012 and photovoltaic panels which will generate five included the removal of the commercial megawatts of power, enough to provide Pine Tree Forest, so that this area could electricity for over 1,200 homes per year.
be restored and planted with native Sessile Oak Trees.
Planting commenced in November 2012 and with another 7,000 trees to get into the ground during the winter, will continue during the first few months of 2013.
As part of this initiative, the Trentham Estate offers opportunities for the local community and visitors to either plant trees on Community Planting Days, or dedicate a tree to support the Douglas Macmillan Hospice, for which over 30,000 has already been raised.
Left: Community tree planting at the North Park, Trentham Estate, Stoke-on-Trent.
Right: Works have recently commenced on the new Austin Park, Longbridge.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
