Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2012 39 Our people In this section: 40 Employee relations and engagement 41 Strengthening our focus on performance management 41 Leadership and management development 42 Diversity 42 Investment in people 42 Reward and recognition Berendsen plc Report and 40 Accounts 2012 Our people Central to our continued Ch Chri ris T s Th hru rus sh h G Gr roup oup Di Dir re ect ctor or, H Hu um man an R Re es sour ource ces s success.
Our people are central to our success and we are fully Employee relations andengagement committed tocontinuing to make our business a great place to work.
Our emphasis is increasingly on developing and We believe in the value of being recognised as an employer of choice retaining our own talent, combined with external recruitment andtherefore seek to maintain high when we need to introduce new skills or create positions standards and good employee relations which support our growth plans.
We place a high priority on employee communication During 2012 we changed the way we operate, introduced a new and achieve this through a variety of focus onbusiness lines, communicated a new Berendsen Vision mechanisms.
In 2012 we installed a new and Values programme and the concept of One Berendsen.
group intranet, Berendsen Universe, which is accessible to all employees Through all these changes our people continued to perform through their work or home computer, at ahigh level and we are proud of their engagement, skills and and which gives a wide range of positive attitude in going the extra mile to surpass customer company information, news and the expectations and deliver the highest standards of service.
ability to post real-time comments.
This, plus the launch of a new online newsletter and webinars ensures regular Integrated updates on company performance and model for results from our Chief Executive Officer, Attract management Chief Financial Officer and other senior management development leaders.
In addition, local operating talent companies make use of management k Group and team briengs, letters to staff and recruitment policy annual kick off, or ad hoc meetings.
Management k trainee scheme Currently the majority of our operating companies conduct employee surveys Diversity policy k which consistently achieve high levels ofparticipation and show high levels ofengagement.
Motivate, engage, Reward and retain As part of the One Berendsen performance k Reward strategy concept, in 2013 we will introduce Attract manage k Bonus programme anewengagement questionnaire Management Talent k Long-term incentives k PDR process acrossall our operations.
This will better Group Recruitment Policy Recognition k k LEAD model k enable us to measure and compare our programme k Management Trainee Scheme peoples alignment relationship with One Berendsen k staff survey k Diversity Policy management, involvement relationship with their jobs and loyalty relationship with theorganisation.
Develop Living our values Succession k planning process 2012 saw us make excellent progress k LEAD model inthe roll-out of the new group-wide k LEAD 360 feedback company Vision and Values programme k Berendsen Academy developed at the end of 2011.
Our values of determination, caring, empowerment and teamwork represent the core h t o s p w e m r S a o a t e t s r r i t d a o l & g t i n e u e a g B l l r i p f c o D o o t n e c e f e t p u e s m r g r O m e n i w n p i o a d t p h e i s l o m i r u h n E B A t p u a u w c e s u t o B i h r i n t m g e s o e s r d n s o a n f e L a l Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 41 Shaped for living our values 12 months after its introduction, our OneBerendsen vision and values programme ismaking a real difference across the business.
We focus on gathering and sharing our success stories and have already seen many great examples of how our people translate the values into action.
This enhances the unique Berendsen culture of delivering world-class customer service, underpins the reputation of our group, and strengthens our sense of belonging.
principles we believe in, and stand for, Succession planning reviews are now As we enter2013 the Academy is asa group of businesses.
Throughout held twice yearly at the business line commencing a two year programme to the year over 100 volunteer ambassadors level and two executive board train over 300of our managers in pricing from all parts of the company succession reviews took place in 2012. and commercial terms.
participated in communication events A group of 30 of our managers and and activities to present and explain The Berendsen Academy leaders from all parts of the business ourVision and Values under the banner Launched in 2012, the Berendsen came together in a series of What does of One Berendsen.
By the end of 2012, Academy is our in house university good look like?
Academy workshops communication to all our 15,000 people providing learning programmes and todevelop LEAD, short for Leadership was virtually complete with high levels tools for the development of Effectiveness and Development.
Here eight areas of effective leadership The Academy delivered Coaching with accompanying key behaviours have forPerformance programmes to Strengthening our focus on been defined for senior leader and plant 120managers in 2012 as part of the performance management manager roles.
These behaviours introduction of our Performance combine what has made us successful People performance is a vital part of andDevelopment Review PDR.
up to now, together with the behaviours ourbusiness performance, optimising employee motivation and potential is keyto our success.
LEAD At the start of 2012, 120 of our leaders and managers were trained in the skillsofgiving and receiving feedback aswe introduced a new process for performance management, Performance and Development Review PDR.
PDR provides a consistent framework formanaging performance across thegroup, ensuresclarity about role expectations and objectives, and alignsbehaviours with our new Our vision companyvalues.
We take pride in doing In 2013, the PDR process is being further what were best at, cascaded through the group to include delivering unsurpassed Plant Managers and their teams.
levels of service, so our customers can do what theyre best at.
Leadership and  Significant progress was also made inputting in place an integrated model for leadership and management development.
Our new Succession andDevelopment Planning process isfocused on the development of apoolof strong management with identified succession for the most seniorpositions, together with a future talent identification process.
e t n e r m e e e m f v M o o o c r r o t p t s r t i m e u v i i s c l a v a u t i s l c e t e r e s s s e v i m u r T n e D m c g a e o n m c o i s r w a f s s C o l a r r e l k n r f e r a S e d d t t e m r a n e v i r t e o c l g l o h a t n i p i n n s s r m g n e u e t e x s n C E t Berendsen plc Report and 42 Accounts 2012 Our people Shaped for developing people Former management trainee, Morten Skou Nielsen from Denmark is a great example of successful management development.
Morten, after completing the two years management trainee programme where he was involved in three different projects in Denmark and Poland, has now been appointed Production Manager in the brand new workwear plant in Rainhill in the UK where he is responsible for bringing CL2000 production methods into full implementation.
we believe we need to further develop The current main emphasis of our Investment in people for our future success.
They will be diversity strategy is on gender diversity.
Training spend in 2012 was 1,770 million.
incorporated into our PDR process and In 2012 we outlined our commitment as we begin 2013.
LEAD 360 is now toimproving gender diversity with In all areas of the business we invested being piloted with a group of volunteers particular emphasis on the number indeveloping the skills of our people, from the original LEAD design group to ofwomen in management roles.
including driving skills, customer service, develop an online feedback tool available selling skills, coaching and negotiating, Our newly introduced Gender Diversity through the Berendsen Academy.
safety awareness, leadership development, Policy recognises that whilst 43% NVQs andapprenticeships.
The Berendsen Trainee Scheme ofBerendsen employees are female, they occupy only 24% of middle The Berendsen Management Trainee management roles and 11% of our senior Reward and recognition Scheme, open to both current leader roles.
Currently no women are employees and externally recruited We reward our managers based on their appointed at executive levels, and of our graduates, is designed to provide a performance, potential and contribution top 50 managers, only three are women.
pipeline of future management talent to the success of the business.
We aim through a two year programme which Our Gender Diversity Policy is therefore toprovide competitive and fair rates develops people in their project focused on increasing the pool of female ofemployee pay and benefits in every management and problem solving skills candidates for senior management country where we operate.
in four assignments undertaken both in andexecutive roles by 2016.
The policy In 2012 we implemented revised annual their home country and internationally.
includes the identification of a number bonus programmes to align reward ofobjectives, which the executive board Awell-established Berendsen initiative withbusiness line performances.
takes ownership of on an annual basis, that had already proved its value in a small Wehave introduced anew long-term which will allow the policy to be number of countries, the scheme has now incentive programme toreward the implemented practically within the been enhanced and expanded across the achievement ofstrategic goals and required time frame.
Currently, a group of 16trainees further encourage management share made up of six men and ten women To date, these include the establishment ownership.
Approximately 100 managers of Women inBerendsen, a network arefollowing the programme.
participate in the Berendsen Long-Term togive women managers a forum for Incentive Plan, and considerably more knowledge exchange, discussion and participate in annual bonus programmes.
Diversity mentoring ofmore junior colleagues in Recognition programmes for sales their careerprogression within Berendsen.
Our goal is a working culture that is andservice performance are well inclusive for all.
We are committed to Inaddition partnerships with external established in Berendsen.
2012 saw eliminating discrimination and encouraging bodies which promote womens theintroduction of a wider recognition diversity amongst our workforce.
We leadership initiatives are encouraged.
programme toencourage excellence aim for our employees to be representative Online diversity awareness training for across all functions.
of the communities in which we operate allmanagers and supervisors is planned and for each of our people to feel for 2013, and the scope of our succession respected and able to give their best.
planning process has been expanded toidentify female managers with future potential together with development plans to prepare them for more senior roles.
Recruitment companies awarded assignments to recruit on our behalf are now required to include qualified female candidates in final shortlists.
