Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2012 43 Corporate responsibility In this section: 45 Our strategic approach 45 Embedding sustainability throughout our operatingenvironment 47 Operating efficiently and sustainably 48 Securing long-term relationships with our stakeholders Berendsen plc Report and 44 Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Our strategic approach toacting responsibly.
From 1 January 2012, our approach to corporate responsibility CR has been based on our new business line structure to be consistent  of our company.
Corporate responsibility initiatives are a key element in our overall business strategy, helping us to maximise opportunity whilst managing risk.
Peter Ventress Chief Executive Officer Opportunities Commercial opportunities Operational efficiencies Engage and retain Competitive advantage employees Our approach to CR allows us to There continue to be opportunities CR presents opportunities to make demonstrate to customers and to identify and implement us stand out in a competitive market, Having the right human resources prospective customers that we can operational efficiencies in our where customers demand the best processes in place allows us to better support them in meeting their own business, both in how we use they can get.
engage with our employees and sustainability commitments.
technology and how our attract and retain the best talent.
Risks Environmental risks Exposure to price changes Regulatory environment Changing customer demands Inadequate environmental Our reliance on the use of utilities Changes in regulations in Europe, Increasing demands from customers stewardship and lack of focus on the and textiles means that any and the emergence of sector about CR will impact on our use of water, electricity, chemicals significant uctuations in prices have specic legislation might impact commercial approach.
and oil and gas would be damaging the potential to impact our overall onour business model.
to our reputation and detrimental to cost structure.
Our priorities Embedding sustainability Engaging with employees Operating efficiently Securing long-term throughout our operating fora motivated, healthy andsustainably relationships with our environment andsafe workplace stakeholders By operating more efficiently, including focusing on our use of We recognise our responsibilities to The health and safety of our people By working with our stakeholders, water, electricity, chemicals and oil our people, the environment and the is paramount.
Read more about our we can anticipate future changes and gas, and our CO2 emissions, communities in which we operate.
people on pages 39 to 42. and requirements, rather than just wewill reduce our environmental reacting to them as they arise.
impact as well as manage our costs.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 45 How we manage CR Our strategic approach Embedding sustainability throughout our operating As we have moved our focus from Our strategic approach and priorities environment countries to business lines, the way wemanage CR has also evolved.
We continue to place CR firmly at the How we report data centre of our strategy.
The business Our board sets group CR policies, casefor sustainability is strong Data relating to health and safety, WECO receives regular updates on compliance asthegraphic on the previous page and CO2 emissions are collected by each and other CR issues and reviews any shows, it enables us to identify and laundry, reported by each business unit actions being taken.
The board also seizeopportunities whilst, at the and business line in each country.
regularly reviews CR-related KPIs sametime, managing risk.
Atpresent, not all WECO data is anddata such as that concerned with consolidated at group level, but we health and safety, CO2 emissions and Increasingly, we find that CR issues are planto put this in place during 2013.
WECO water, electricity, chemicals, part of many business conversations.
Customers, employees, suppliers Whats next?
andother stakeholders are all keen Group executive management is tounderstand how our business We will be implementing updated key responsible for communicating best impactson others and on the group operational policies on health practice throughout the business, environment and what we are doing andsafety including fire management, updating the board on any incidents toimprove our performance.
business continuity planning and andother issues.
It also reviews KPIs building asset management throughout reported, helps the business with It is in theinterests of all our stakeholders the group during 2013. thecompletion of CR-related survey aswell as ourselves that we comply requests and handles external with regulations and improve efficiency, We plan to consolidate all WECO data communication such as our annual which in turn can lead to reduced costs.
atgroup level over the coming 12 months.
Communicated on Progress to the Consequently, sustainability increasingly United Nations Global Compact, the next features in tender processes and A focus on business lines one due to be submitted in April 2013. procurement documentation and Although Berendsen operates in many informs many of the key decisions The business lines are now responsible countries, often with a different mix of thatimpact our financial performance.
for theimplementation of the groups business lines from country to country, CRpolicies in each business unit.
They In terms of risks, we prioritise our the material issues we face are broadly also collect data for our group-wide KPIs attention on changing customer the same.
andkeep group management informed demands, the regulatory environment, We recognise for example health and of any CR-related issues.
environmental factors andexposure to safety as agroup-wide operational price changes.
This latter issue has been Ultimately, CR is everyones responsibility, priority.
It continues to be a particularly particularly relevantin recent months, and most of our policies and targets are significant element of our risk aseconomic pressures have forced turned into reality by the teams working management programme.
in our laundries and other sites Theincrease in prices underlines the throughout the group.
Bymanaging resources suchas energy and water more efficiently we can reduce the impact that cost increases have on profitability.
Our priorities remain to: embed sustainability throughout our operating environment: engage with our employees for a motivated, healthy andsafe workplace: operate efficiently and sustainably: and secure long-term relationships with our stakeholders.
Shaped for operating sustainably We strive to recycle or extend the lifetime of products wherever possible.
Our Latvian business has repaired 55,000 mats since 2009, extending their use by up to three years and generating savings of around 1 million.
We are now extending this initiative to other parts of the group including the UK, which has recently acquired three mat repair presses.
Berendsen plc Report and 46 Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Shaped for engaging with our value chain Were serious about sustainability at Whitbread because we know its the right thing to do for the planet and its what our customers and our teams want.
Our vision is to lead the hospitality industry to become more sustainable and we want to work with suppliers who share these values and can help us reduce our impact on the environment.
Sunlight, with its strong environmental policies, fits this bill and is a valued partner for Whitbread.
Chris George Head of Energy and Environment Whitbread Group PLC Similarly, efficiency primarily revolves These policies are our recognition of Major Injury around our use of water, energy, ourresponsibilities to our people, the Business Line Rate chemicals, and oil and gas WECO.
environment and communities in Facility There are minor variations at a business whichwe operate.
They are reviewed Workwear 0.27 line level, as different tasks necessitate regularly and it is the responsibility of UK Flat Linen 1.01 different wash regimes and therefore themanaging director of each business create different energy and water line to ensure that all policies are Flat Linen outside UK 0.56 requirements however, our priorities communicated to management, that Clinical Solutions and Decontamination are consistent across the group.
anyincident is reported, actions are Total group 2012 0.51 agreed and implemented, and that our Total group 2011 0.57 As the environmental impacts of our employees are aware of thecontent Total group 2010 0.70 business are most mostly at our ofour CR-related policies.
laundries, this iswhere our efficiency Major Injury Incident Rate Number of major injuries Total hours worked X 1,000,000 initiatives are implemented and where The health and safety of our people necessary adapted.
We are sharing good isparamount.
However, we operate If an employee were tragically to practice across thegroup, helping inmany countries and their standards become disabled during the course laundries, business units and business both in terms of regulation and accepted oftheir employment, every effort lines benefit from the experiences of best practice do vary.
wouldbe made to ensure that their their Berendsen counterparts.
For employment with the group continues, In the unfortunate event of any health example, some business lines have and that where considered necessary and safety related incidents we have valuable experience of dealing with appropriate retraining is arranged.
awell-established internal reporting textiles that can be handled at lower, system so that they are promptly washing temperatures or using Whats next?
reported to senior management and techniques to optimise drying time actions are agreed to try and prevent During 2013 we will be implementing an andthere are opportunities for such such incidents occurring again.
Group updated group-wide health and safety procedures to be introduced elsewhere incident statistics are regularly collected policy that will set the highest standards in the group.
and reviewed by the board.
Meeting local following table shows the group-wide regulatory requirements will be an Our policies and systems Major Injury Rate for Berendsen absolute minimum in most cases Our approach to CR is enshrined in five employees in 2010, 2011 and 2012, by weexpect our businesses to establish key policies: Ethics: Health and Safety: business line for 2012 only.
All instances farhigher levels of care.
Environment: Human Resources and of major injury in 2012 have been Employees: and Community.
appropriately addressed and actions taken to improve procedures whererequired.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 47 Water use and recovery CO2 emissions Operating efficiently andsustainably We have many ongoing initiatives We implemented our group-wide policy throughout the group to reduce our use on CO2 reporting in 2010, and continued Our environmental priorities of water and increase water recovery.
to make good progress on improving Most of our operations benefit from thequality of reporting during 2012.
With more stakeholders now water recovery systems and these have expressinginterest in our environmental This year, for the first time, we are able led to consumption falling on average by performance, this is an area that presents toreport consolidated data for the group between 20% and 25%.
As the amount both risks and opportunities to us, right that compares last years performance of water used decreases, so too does our across all our business lines and with that of the previous period, using energy consumption as less power is countries of operation.
the GHG greenhouse gas protocol required toheat the water for washing.
By aggregating the The nature of our business means that We have trialled new membrane water tonnes of laundry that we have shipped we inevitably use significant amounts filtration systems that recover our waste to customers we are able to calculate ofraw materials, energy and chemicals water for re-use.
Recovering this water kgof CO2 per tonne shipped for each inour everyday operations.
Reducing also recovers the heat energy in the ofourbusiness lines and for the group thevolumes used and better managing water, further reducing our energy use.
our overall environmental impact will make our business more sustainable, Kg of C02 per tonne The water recovery systems process oflaundry shipped 2011 2012 reduce costs for both ourselves and our laundry effluent and enable it to be Workwear 521 customers and ultimately help us win reused in our operations.
As the Facility and retain more customer contracts.
280 recovered water is already at a high UK Flat Linen 398 temperature, this has the added Our priorities are therefore now Flat Linen outside UK 389 advantage of requiring less heat well-established and are centred Clinical Solutions and tobringit back to the optimum onouruse of WECO.
Group 434 410 Operating efficiently We also work closely with our chemicals suppliers to validate our processes Our UK business is seeking re-certification By operating more efficiently we will theyprovide us with reports on our by the Carbon Trust Standard for the reduce our environmental impact performance and also help us identify third time.
This standard is awarded to aswellas manage our costs.
areas where we can become more organisations that measure, manage and During 2012 we continued to install efficient.
Our boiler water treatment reduce their carbon footprint.
In addition equipment at various sites to help us suppliers also validate boiler operation they have assisted the Carbon Trust, along identify areas of high usage and therefore atsites and report to us regularly.
Boiler with three other organisations, inthe potential savings.
For example, we widely efficiency is an important aspect of development of a new water certification use meters which track hourly energy energy management and we check process.
This has now been completed consumption as well as equipment that performance by monitoring the quality and we have achieved this new standard.
adjusts energy used according to the of the water.
To achieve the standard, a3.7% reduction workload being processed.
in relative water usage is required.
Our UK Furthermore, we have installed flue gas business achieved a13.1% reduction in In the UK we are currently investigating thermometers in order to identify any their submission, reducing their carbon the installation ofcombined heat and loss in efficiency.
Steam trap surveys are footprint by 745tonnes year.
power units usingnatural gas and biogas also regularly carried out and hot well to generatesteam and electricity.
temperatures are widely monitored to Transport and logistics provide insight into our consumption andefficiency potential.
Vehicle movements account for a significant amount of our environmental impact and we regularly review vehicle Shaped for routes to improve efficiency.
Where practical, our policy is to deploy a smaller working towards best practice number of larger vehicles as they are able to carry greater volumes per mile driven We are always looking for continuous and thus reduce the overall number of improvement throughout the group.
vehicles on the roads at anyone time.
Toimprove the implementation of best practice, we have reviewed and updated Most of our fleets are owned and ouroperational procedures on health operated by Berendsen.
All our vehicles and safety including fire management, businesscontinuity planning and building conform to the requirements of low asset management.
These policies and emission zones and it is company policy procedures will be implemented in all to always specify the latest and most businesses during 2013.
We have efficient vehicle engines.
Fuel costs and established a Risk Management Working usage are also subject to constant review.
Group focused on operational risks to identify and share best practice across In our flat linen business in the UK, all business lines.
weuse a vehicle management system tomonitor fuel optimisation and driver behaviour, with the objective of minimising harsh acceleration, cornering and braking, as well as excessive idling.
Berendsen plc Report and 48 Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Whats next?
Our customers are keenly interested in that will be responsible for carrying out our approach and achievements.
They independent detailed audits of our major In 2013 we aim to consolidate water recognise that our performance can help supplierswho themselves manufacture usage data at group level.
This will give them meet their own CR targets, and products for us.
us deeper insight into the areas where weare passionately committed to giving we can make additional reductions The aim is to ensure that Berendsens them the answers they are looking for.
andalso ensure that all our plants are standards are being correctly observed, For example, our move to consolidating able toimplement best practice.
We will such as those relating to human rights data at a group level means customers alsocontinue to look for opportunities and working conditions.
This approach will increasingly have access to a broader toreduce our CO2 emissions.
will establish a consistent audit process.
It will generate standardised reports When we engage with customers, we about suppliers on their level of Securing long-term stress the fact that sustainability is not a compliance, together with any relevant relationships with our nice to have or a bolted-on extra for us.
stakeholders It is part of our regular everyday activity We also have a supplier whistleblowing and is central to improving the efficiency initiative in place which enables suppliers Engaging with our stakeholders and lowering the costs of the services to raise with us any issues or areas of weprovide to them, whilst at the same Our key stakeholders are: concern they may have.
time helping them achieve their own k Employees: CRobjectives.
We have also confirmed our commitment to the UK governments k Customers: Customer feedback is very important recent request that all businesses in tous and during 2012 our UK Workwear theFTSE 350 sign up to the Prompt k Suppliers: and UK Flat Linen businesses completed Payment Code.
Signatories to the code comprehensive customer surveys.
The k Local communities: and undertake to pay suppliers on time, results of these surveys arein the process giveclear guidance to suppliers on for k Investors.
Actions will be taken example payment procedures, and to communicate any successes identified Each group of stakeholders has different dealing with complaints or disputes, and to address any areas for improvement.
areas of interest and different concerns, andencourage them to implement best and we value the roles that all play in practice throughout supply chains.
Engaging with the industry thecontinued success of our group.
Weengage with them on a regular basis, Our energy manager in the UK has Engaging with our communities as meaningful dialogue builds long-term beeninvited to be an inaugural member We recognise the importance of actively relationships.
Together, we can anticipate of the newly formed UK Energy maintaining strong relationships with future changes and requirements rather Managers Association and is chairing thecommunities in which we operate.
than reacting to them as they arise aworking group to develop training We widely employ people from these andwork together to innovate the needs for future energy managers in local communities so our reputation as a bestsolutions.
responsible and fair employer is of crucial We are active members of the European importance.
We respond proactively Engaging with our employees Textile Services Association ETSA, toany concerns that are raised by local To communicate with our employees, we which works to further industry interests residents in the event of our operations use a range of internal communications and promote a greater understanding of causing them any undue inconvenience.
initiatives and platforms to share the key issues we all face.
For example, our Vision and Values, and to help build during 2012 we participated in an Procurement, bribery and corruption constructive relationships with our ETSAworking group to discuss Requirements for the implementation of teams.
As detailed on page 40, the thepossible identification and minimum procedures in order to prevent OneBerendsen concept has been development of appropriate industry bribery and corruption were rolled-out aframework for dialogue with all of keyperformance indicators.
to all of our businesses in 2011.
We took this theaudit process for our major suppliers opportunity to stress the importance Engaging with our suppliers will focus on compliance with these ofsustainability to achieving our Through our Supplier Policy, we procedures.
Our directors of supply are groupgoals.
appointpreferred partners in order responsible for ensuring compliance with We also cover our Vision and Values tostrengthen our buying position, our procurement standards.
inOurpeople section of this report, increase levels of standardisation Bribery risk assessments are completed onpage 40. acrossthe business and access valuable annually by each business in the group economies of scale.
We are moving and the status of bribery awareness Engaging with our customers and towards awarding larger contracts to among employees is on the agenda of industry partners asmaller number of suppliers because management meetings on a regular basis.
this will give our contracts a greater CR is an important factor in winning degree of importance, enabling us to newbusiness and retaining existing Whats next?
influence any CR issues at asupplier level.
We are frequently asked An engagement questionnaire for all about our sustainability management Our main suppliers are located in employees will be introduced in 2013. and performance, not only in formal Pakistan, Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia The results of independent audits of our procurement requests for information and China.
main suppliers will be monitored closely.
and questionnaires, but also during We visit manufacturers from whom we meetings and conversations between source products regularly and have now our customer relationship managers and appointed a single assurance provider their customers.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2012 49 Governance In this section: 50 Chairmans overview 52 Board of directors 54 Corporate governance statement 69 Report on directors remuneration 80 Directors report 85 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements
