Running a Sustainable Business RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OUR VISION IS TO REMAIN ONE OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESSES IN BRITAIN.
44 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 45 Running a Sustainable Business 1 Kidbrooke Village 3 Edenbrook Country Park Berkeley is passionate about Putting a village back Encompassing 84 acres into London and bringing of meadowlands, wetlands quality-led placemaking.
a renewed social and and woodland areas, the community vibrancy into country park is connected everyday lives to enhance via a network of footpaths From one of the UKs largest the wider area.
2 Crossrail at Woolwich regeneration projects, to a high Berkeley is delivering and co-funding the Crossrail profile civil engineering scheme, station box at Woolwich as part of their regeneration to an 84 acre country park.
1 BEFORE FERRIER ESTATE DURING DEMOLITION AFTER PHASE 1 46 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business 2 Computer generated images are indicative only.
3 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 47 Running a Sustainable Business RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS BERKELEYS OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY HAVE A CLEAR FOCUS ON THE LONG-TERM.
We believe that a business in this sector cannot and should not operate with only short-term targets, and that a sound understanding of the long-term cyclical nature of the market in which we operate must be reected in our approach.
Our targets to return 13 per share in cash to shareholders by 2021 and to retain a strong sustainable business throughout this period and thereafter is a clear statement of long-term intent, and requires us to run our business in a sustainable and safe way.
We manage the business on a day-to-day basis with these long-term objectives in mind, and with a series of specic commitments under the framework of Vision2020, which embed this approach within our operating teams.
We track and measure our performance towards the long-term objectives through review of our financial performance and progress, and against our commitments under each key area of Vision2020, which overall comprise our key performance indicators.
Our long-term financial strategy, in combination with the fundamental principles of Vision2020, and the importance of recruiting and retaining the best people to run the business sustainably and with integrity, support Berkeley in its drive to be one of the most successful and sustainable businesses in Britain.
Our vision for the future Vision2020 provides Berkeley with the framework to meet this ambition and focuses the business on four key impact areas: The Customer Experience Building Greener Homes Delivering Sustainable Communities Running a Sustainable Business 48 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business FINANCIAL STABILITY An assessment of financial performance and outlook is central to the Annual Report of every business, and this is no different for Berkeley.
The Trading 214.8 and Financial Reviews elsewhere in this report provide a detailed analysis of our performance in the year.
This performance is underpinned by our million trading success, under which we have delivered profit Before Tax of 214.8 million 2011: 136.2 million and an Operating Margin before 2011: 136.2 million exceptional items of 18.8% 2011: 18.3%.
However it is a Return of Equity profit Before Tax of 21.2% 2011: 15.3%, one of our core performance targets, which best measures our performance towards delivering sustainable success.
A return on equity at this level is central to our assertion that the Berkeley Group 21.2% business is being run at an optimal size which enables it to deliver exceptional returns in an efficient way.
2011: 15.3% Return on Equity Careful control of the balance sheet is at the root of Berkeleys ability to deliver such returns.
Despite a growth in capital employed from 891.7 million at 30 April 2011 to 1,157.7 million at 30 April 2012, we have carefully controlled gearing levels at 5% from net debt of 57.9 million 2011: nil from net cash of 18.8% 42.0 million, reecting our planned investment in high quality land assets and in a demand-led investment in construction as we entered this phase of the 2011: 18.3% cycle.
This investment in construction is supported by our strong forward sales Operating Margin position which at 1,055.7 million 2011: 813.5 million is at a level which gives before exceptional items us the confidence to commit investment in construction to the sites to which the sales relate.
This balance sheet strength is reected in Net Asset Value per Share of 839.3 pence, up from 709.2 pence in 2011.
1,055.7 We have continued to invest in land in a controlled way, and have invested 311 million over the course of the year.
Together with our focus on securing the right planning consents for our schemes, we have increased Gross Margin in the million land bank from 2,304 million at 30 April 2011 to 2,580 million at 30 April 2012, 2011: 813.5 million our second core performance target.
Where we invest in land is where we have Forward Sales confidence in the fundamentals of that land in terms of location, planning and demand.
Once secured, land is the asset which fundamentally supports the long-term earning potential of the business.
It is the combination of solid trading performance, balance sheet strength 2,580 and land bank potential which, together with the right approach to running a business for the long-term, gives us the confidence in Berkeleys ability to million continue to perform at this level in the long-term.
2011: 2,304 million Land Bank Berkeley Annual Report 2012 49 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE THE CUSTOMER AT THE Our vision HEART OF OUR BUSINESS for the future The customer is at the heart of every decision that we make, from the land that we buy, through development planning, to the detailed design, specication and construction of our housing 97% and commercial space.
Our vision for 2020 is that: 2011: 96% Percentage of customers We will consistently meet or exceed our customers expectations that would Recommend by delivering well-designed, beautiful homes and communities us to a friend where they can live happy, healthy and  lifestyles.
The service that we provide to our customers throughout the purchasing process and after completion will 53% be exceptional.
Customers will be positioned at the heart of our 2011: 45% business and will be central to the decisions that we make.
Percentage of commercial space completed which achieved BREEAM Very Good 50 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business Edenbrook, Hampshire Our customers include private purchasers, housing associations, universities, student and Extra Care accommodation providers, commercial occupiers, hotel operators and investors.
We take our relationships with all our customers very seriously, and challenge ourselves to meet or exceed their expectations in everything we do.
We use customer satisfaction surveys undertaken by an independent external agency to measure how well we are meeting our customers expectations.
All of our private purchasers are asked to complete a survey, and this year 97% of our customers reported that they would recommend Berkeley to a friend, compared to 96% in 2010 11.
This is above our target of 90%, and represents further reassurance that, through Vision2020, we are succeeding in embedding the customer experience at the heart of our business.
Whilst we are primarily a residential developer, we also target high performance standards on our commercial space on mixed-use developments and on our student accommodation schemes.
Our objective is to ensure that all commercial space including student accommodation achieves BREEAM Very Good, or is capable of achieving this if tout is to be undertaken by the tenant.
BREEAM is an assessment which measures the environmental impact of the buildings that we develop.
During 2011 12, 100% of our commercial space submitted for planning will meet these requirements and 53% of our completed commercial space was certied to BREEAM Very Good.
The Customer Experience is central to Berkeleys reputation, its ability to secure sales and hence the viability of the future business.
As such, it is a central focus of management at all levels, and one in which we will continue to strive for exceptional performance.
DRIVING PERFORMANCE THROUGH VISION2020 OUR LEADING COMMITMENTS UP TO 2014 Over the last two years the commitments we have made in this area through Vision2020 have concentrated on embedding the customer experience at the heart of our business.
We are now setting ourselves targets that will deliver exceptional customer service on a par with the best performing companies in Britain.
From now on, we are moving our Recommend us to a friend target up to 95%.
We will also: Provide every customer with a Customer Satisfaction Commitment.
This is our way of making sure our customers are completely satisfied with their purchase.
Provide our customers with a dedicated point of contact at every stage of the customer journey.
We believe customers should have individually tailored support to guide them through the purchasing process.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 51 Running a Sustainable Business BUILDING GREENER HOMES ENVIRONMENTAL Our vision SUSTAINABILITY for the future It is a reality of the world today that environmental sustainability must be at the heart of any business that wishes to be successful.
Berkeley prides itself on having led the way in its commitments to achieving environmental performance standards across its 81% portfolio, and believes that this is the right and responsible 2011: 65% approach to take in this industry.
Our vision for 2020 is that: Percentage of homes certied using an environmental We will have completed our first zero carbon community and all performance methodology our new developments will be low or zero carbon.
Our proven track record of delivering high quality, well-designed, comfortable homes with low environmental impact will make them highly desirable to 89% customers and will have expanded our market base.
Homes built 2011: 92% by Berkeley will be recognised throughout the industry as the very Percentage of development on browneld land best examples of sustainable design and construction.
52 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business Holborough Lakes, Kent Our continued focus is on developing on brownfield land, with 89% of our development this year on brownfield rather than greenfield land.
The homes we build have an environmental impact not only during the construction process, but also through their occupation.
Designing homes to meet environmental performance standards such as the Code for Sustainable Homes helps minimise these impacts whilst giving us the ability to clearly demonstrate their performance to our customers and other stakeholders.
We are also committed to integrating additional measures to reduce impact where we believe that these add value or meet the demands of our stakeholders.
Our industry-leading commitment to certify all homes to Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes has been the driving force behind our achievement of 81% of homes built this year certied using an environmental performance methodology 2011: 65%.
We continue to investigate the feasibility of improving environmental performance standards still further, and are pleased to confirm that this year we will be designing several schemes to Level 4 of the Code for Sustainable Homes.
Delivering energy-efficient homes and improving water efficiency is not only right for the environment, it is immediately reected in reduced utility bills for our customers.
Our continued focus is on developing on browneld land, with 89% of our development this year on browneld rather than greeneld land 2011: 92%, thereby bringing back to life often redundant or under-utilised land.
The ecological impact of our work has included the introduction of brown roofs, country parks, and waterfront walks at certain of our schemes, providing a sensitive balance in the places that we deliver.
As the wider movement is towards prioritising the environmental agenda, Berkeley will continue to remain at the forefront in promoting this agenda, its importance both internally and externally reecting its rightful place at the heart of Berkeleys strategy to build and consolidate its business for the long-term.
DRIVING PERFORMANCE THROUGH VISION2020 OUR LEADING COMMITMENTS UP TO 2014 In recent years our focus has been on reducing carbon emissions from the homes we build.
To address this, in 2007 we launched a Climate Change Policy which committed all of our new homes to Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes.
Climate change would pose risks to the built environment, primarily from higher temperatures and changed rainfall patterns.
In this context, our next challenge is to make sure our homes provide high levels of comfort and simplicity and sit within a landscape that can cope with more extreme weather conditions.
From now on, Berkeley will ensure our homes are not only low carbon every place we create will also be designed for adaptation to a future changed climate.
We will also: Put in place adaptation measures on all new developments by investing in the space between buildings to create beautiful landscapes which help places adapt to climate change.
Harvest rainwater for use on all new developments.
Provide living roofs on every suitable apartment roof space.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 53 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business Computer generated images are indicative only.
DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES CREATING PLACES THAT WILL Our vision STAND THE TEST OF TIME for the future Berkeley has an emphasis on creating a successful, sustainable place from every site that we develop.
Our vision for 2020 is that: We will create high quality, sustainable places where people 44% choose to live, work and spend their time.
These will be places 2011: 29% that directly encourage the well-being of residents and offer them Percentage of homes a space and a base from which to lead safe and fullling lives.
completed which met the Our ability to transform sites into thriving communities will be Lifetime Homes standard considered the best in our industry.
Through our ability both to engage and to deliver, Berkeley will be the developer of choice for local authorities and existing communities.
14 2011: 30 For each of our schemes, we develop a specic solution, using bespoke design, Number of new developments with the aim of delivering well-designed homes and communities.
We do not have achieving 14 or more of the standard product.
Unlike most major housebuilders, we consistently use qualied Building for Life criteria architects to design each scheme, whether it consists of 4 or 4,000 homes.
54 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business Chelsea Creek, SW6 Each place we create emerges through the management of a complex series We have a culture of relationships and processes.
Together these deliver the right mix of housing, transport, open space, retail and other facilities.
We work very closely with the in our business community to achieve this: their needs and ideas inform the design.
Ultimately, they must take pride in the place and responsibility for its long-term success.
of talking directly We have a culture in our business of talking directly to residents and delivering what we promise.
to residents and Our strategy puts equal emphasis on each dimension of sustainability.
This means building a place which offers people access to employment and a delivering what good quality of life, as well as the chance to live in a low carbon environment.
Berkeley invests in the social fabric of each community just as we invest in the we promise.
environmental performance of each home.
Our ability to deliver this integrated approach to making a place sustainable is a core part of what makes us different.
Our developments also have an important role to play in contributing to economic growth and prosperity in the local community, at first through the investment in construction and infrastructure during the delivery process, where we actively work to promote job opportunities, and on the occupied scheme.
Many of our developments are a draw to new business, including the opportunities presented by the new retail and commercial space that we deliver, and so help boost the wider employment opportunities in the locations in which we operate.
When Vision2020 was launched in May 2010, we committed to assessing our new developments using the Building for Life criteria and ensuring that they achieve at least the Silver Standard equivalent to scoring 14 out of the 20 criteria.
Building for Life is a framework to encourage well-designed homes and neighbourhoods, and is a measure that we use to demonstrate design quality in the communities that we create.
In 2012, we assessed 14 of our developments using the criteria and 100% achieved a score of 14 or more.
Since making this commitment in May 2010, a total of 44 new developments have now been assessed and scored 14 or more.
We have also committed to apply the Lifetime Homes principles on all new developments.
Lifetime Homes are designed to be adaptable to peoples changing needs over their lifetime, thus preventing social exclusion, and so success under this standard is indicative of the level of inclusivity of our developments.
In 2012, 44% of our homes met the Lifetime Homes Standard 2011: 29%.
Our focus is on delivering well-designed, safe, sustainable places which will endure as settled, vibrant communities long into the future.
At Berkeley, we believe that it is this long-term vision, to appreciate the needs of our customers and wider stakeholders before, during and after the delivery of our schemes, that is the right model for a truly successful and sustainable business in our sector.
DRIVING PERFORMANCE THROUGH VISION2020 OUR LEADING COMMITMENTS UP TO 2014 Well-designed buildings and places are crucial in delivering sustainable communities.
This is why in May 2010 we made a commitment that all of our new developments would achieve the Building for Life Silver Standard.
We also know that if you want a place to thrive, it is not enough just to provide good physical infrastructure.
You also need to focus on how people will relate to each other and function as a community.
We use the idea of social sustainability to describe this.
It captures the way in which a neighbourhood supports the individual and collective well-being of the people who live there.
We will now develop a coherent way of routinely addressing the issues on our developments that affect peoples well-being and quality of life.
We will also: Establish an understanding in our business and in government of what social sustainability is, how you measure it and what you can do to support it.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 55 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MANAGING THE ECONOMIC, Our vision SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL for the future IMPACTS OF OUR BUSINESS Vision2020 is about how we run the business from day-to-day, to take on board the principles of a long-term strategy, in a safe and 2.69 sustainable way.
Our vision for 2020 is that: 2011: 3.63 RIDDOR accident incident rate Sustainability will be fully integrated into our business strategy and operations.
Our environmental impact will be as low as possible and our operational sites will be healthy and safe places 1.53 to work.
We will retain a highly skilled and passionate workforce and through the Berkeley Foundation we will have given help tonnes CO e 2 to many young people, their families and communities.
We will 2011: 1.67 tonnes C0 e 2 maximise shareholder value over the long-term in a sustainable Total direct operational carbon and safe way, for an acceptable level of risk.
emissions per operative on site restated gure 56 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business Good Work Contractor Conference organised by Berkeley We have reported on our financial performance, and how this demonstrates our approach to building a sustainable business both in terms of past performance and indicators for the future.
Operationally, we prioritise those areas which enable us to manage the economic, social and environmental impacts of the business in a way that promotes the Berkeley way as the right way to do business in this sector.
Health and Safety is an absolute priority.
As production levels have increased over recent years, it gives us confidence in our approach to report that the RIDDOR accident incident rate an indicator that measures the number of fatalities, major incidents and over three day absences per 1,000 people working on our construction sites has reduced to 2.69 2011: 3.63, a level which continues to outperform the industry.
This is an area that requires continued vigilance and hard work from our teams, and receives a high level of management focus.
We have continued our Good Order and Good Work programmes across all of our sites to continue to drive high Health and Safety standards on our sites, and this has again been well received by our contractors, managers and operatives.
Berkeleys stakeholders, and above all Berkeleys workforce, should take comfort that Berkeley will always keep Health and Safety a top priority.
Environmental efficiency in our operations is an environmental focus which also has a clear cost benefit.
Our focus on reducing emissions has meant that our direct operational carbon emissions per operative on site has reduced by 9% in 2012 to 1.53 tonnes CO e. We continue to focus on ways to further reduce our carbon 2 emissions and our water consumption and waste generation during the construction process.
DRIVING PERFORMANCE THROUGH VISION2020 OUR LEADING COMMITMENTS UP TO 2014 In the last two years we have had a particular focus on managing the social and economic impacts of our business through the launch of the Berkeley Foundation.
We also set targets to reduce the environmental impacts of our business and enhance Health and Safety performance.
Strong financial performance is essential for running a sustainable business.
This provides the foundation from which we can deliver all of our Vision2020 commitments.
Our key focus moving forward will be to maximise shareholder value over the long-term in a safe and sustainable way, for an acceptable level of risk.
To achieve this, we will also: Position the business so that Berkeley is well-placed to deliver returns of 4.34 per share to shareholders by September 2015.
Retain our balance sheet strength and continue investment in our land bank.
This approach will give us the financial and operational stability to properly manage the social, economic and environmental impacts of our business across all disciplines as we have done in the past, enabling us to keep Health and Safety a top priority and continue to improve our environmental efficiency.
We continue to focus on ways to further reduce our carbon emissions and our water consumption and waste generation during the construction process.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 57 Running a Sustainable Business 58 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 59 59 Running a Sustainable Business Street Elite A sports-based training for work programme Conor McGahon, Land Manager, Berkeley At the summit of Mount Everest helping raise money for the Berkeley Foundation THE BERKELEY FOUNDATION The Berkeley Foundation was launched in 2011.
It works to improve the lives of young people and their communities in London and the South East.
The Berkeley Foundation embodies our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility, and has engaged our employees both within the wider community and beyond.
The Foundation invests in three different ways: through a small group of major strategic partnerships: by supporting individual charities which matter to our local businesses: and by making one-off grants.
Two strategic partnerships began in 2011.
The first was with the Lords Taverners, developing a sports-based training for a work programme called Street Elite.
The second was with Shelter, supporting a complete range of housing advice services for young people.
The creation of apprenticeships across our developments, of which there have been some 100 to date, is also in line with Berkeleys aspiration to embed good corporate citizenship into the business model itself, recognising the capacity that a business with the skills and experience of the Berkeley workforce can give back in training a highly skilled workforce for the future.
Berkeleys intention is to make the Berkeley Foundation the most effective and distinctive Corporate Social Responsibility programme in the housebuilding and real estate sector.
This will be built on a strategic approach to modelling new ways of changing young peoples lives for the better, supported by the notion that everyone in Berkeley, however they may choose to do it, does something to support the Foundation every year.
60 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Running a Sustainable Business Running a Sustainable Business OUR PEOPLE The success of Berkeley as an organisation to date is a testament to the knowledge, skill and hard work of our employees across every discipline of the business.
Implementing a long-term strategy needs the understanding, buy-in and above all the passion of all of our employees to ensure that we deliver a business that can be considered one of the best and most sustainable in Britain, one of which all of our employees can be proud.
Recruitment and retention of our high calibre workforce is crucial to this, to ensure that Berkeley can remain a market leader and implement Vision2020 across every discipline.
AWARDS Whilst the business is not run in order to secure awards, perhaps that which makes Berkeley most proud, of those received this year, is its recognition by Management Today as Britains Most Admired Company in 2011, ranking ahead of some of Britains most prestigious businesses from Diageo to Royal Dutch Shell and Unilever.
Other awards this year include 12 What House?
Awards, Homebuilder of the Year at the Daily Telegraph British Homes Awards and Housebuilder of the Year at the 2011 Building Awards amongst others.
The focus that Berkeley places on Health and Safety has also again been recognised through awards across its schemes from RoSPA, the NHBC and the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Awards of this nature support our assertion that Berkeley is on the right path.
We have again delivered a strong operating performance, whilst demonstrating that we are running the business in the right way to build and consolidate Berkeley as one of Britains leading businesses now and in the future.
With the right long-term strategy, the right operational targets, and the right framework in Vision2020 to support our approach, we believe that Berkeley is entering the year in excellent shape to continue to deliver on its promises.
Our Sustainability Report 2012, published under separate cover, provides a more in-depth analysis of Berkeleys approach to running a sustainable business under the framework of Vision2020.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 61 Trading & Financial Review TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW THE BERKELEY VISION IS TO MAXIMISE SHAREHOLDER VALUE OVER THE LONG-TERM IN A SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE WAY, RETURNING 13 PER SHARE TO SHAREHOLDERS BY 2021.
62 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Trading & Financial Review Trading & Financial Review Berkeley Annual Report 2012 63
