Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 63 Responsible Investing Our vision is to be recognised as a leading international investor based on the value we add to our portfolio, the returnswe deliver to our investors and our responsible approachto investing.
We believe that: the effective assessment and management of ESG matters has a positive effect on the value of our investee companies and of 3i Group itself: compliance with local laws and regulations may not be enough to meet global expectations, deliver value and enhance our reputation and licence to operate: and a referral list of activities that we may invest in but which it is vital that we seek to identify all material ESG risks and may be sensitive and require additional scrutiny: and opportunities through our due diligence and effectively a set of minimum ESG standards that we will seek to manage them during the period of 3is investment.
implement during the period of our investment.
During the year, we initiated a project to review and improve The policy is underpinned by: our RI approach.
The result was a refreshed policy supported by on the ground tools, resources and procedures to a set of updated RI procedures that complement our embed the policy into our investment processes and apply investment processes and ensure that they are them consistently across thebusiness.
consistently applied across all of our investment activities: Our policy makes it clear that we aim to use our influence an online toolkit that provides screening and risk asaninvestor to promote a commitment in our investee assessment tools for ESG risks, including anti-bribery companies to: andcorruption risks: comply, as a minimum, with applicable local and a series of guidance notes for investment teams, international laws: coveringkey issues and sectors, with links to case studies, international norms and standards and information about mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts and specific emerging markets: enhance positive effects on the environment, workers andrelevant stakeholders: and a list of preferred ESG due diligence suppliers: uphold high standards of business integrity and good a one-stop shop RI portal that provides access for staff corporate governance.
toall these resources: and Main features of the policy include: a full-time internal Responsible Investing Manager who supports the deal teams in the application of the RI policy.
clear statements of our commitment to mitigate adverseenvironmental and social impacts and Working with advisers, as part of this project, we reviewed upholdhighstandards of business integrity and good our Private Equity and Infrastructure portfolios, identifying corporate governance: over 25 companies for more rigorous analysis in environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
an exclusion list of businesses and activities in which This review focused not only on ESG risks, but also on wewill not invest: theopportunities for creating value.
Going forward, our investment teams will work with ourActive Partnership programme to drive the themes moreconsistently through our investments to create value.
64 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility at 3i External benchmarking 2012 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Employee engagement 69% 86% 74% 83% Dow Jones Sustainability Score: Score: Score: Index DJSI 62% 62% 61% We achieved good scores in our annual employee Carbon Disclosure Disclosure Disclosure engagement survey, particularly in the areas of being Project score: score: CDP: committed to helping us meet our objectives, taking 71% 43% 51% responsibility to act according to our values, teamwork andloyalty, with 72% of respondents saying they are Business in the Score: Score: Score: Community BitC 81% 81% 80% proudtowork for us.
CRIndex Silver Silver Silver However, the challenging operating environment has been reflected in an overall employee engagement score of 69%, As a founder member of BitC over thirty years ago, we are which is lower than in previous periods, although broadly proudto have maintained our ranking in the 2011 BitC CR inline with other UK companies surveyed.
We have also maintained our ranking in the DJSI and have been included in the FTSE4Good for the first time.
Also, Employee engagement is a composite measure of our disclosure score from the Carbon Disclosure Project has employees views of how well their abilities are used, seen some improvement.
recognised and valued by the company, their commitment and pride in working for us and their understanding of their We ensure that 3i is an attractive place to work through contribution, commitment and prideinworking for us.
investment in staff, internal communications and our brand.
We believe that investing in these areas will foster astrong and unified culture.
This is best illustrated by our best team Our priorities for the year ahead for the job approach, which aims to harness the skills and We recognise that we have more to do in this area, and knowledge of our teams from around the world.
haveidentified the following priorities for the year ahead: During the year, we refreshed both our brand and values, ensuring that our revised Responsible Investing and held a series of internal discussions and workshops procedures are fully implemented and supported toensure that our brand and values accurately reflect byappropriate training and resources: ourmarkets and the needs of all of our stakeholders.
further work on enhancing our monitoring and reporting toinclude meaningful KPIs with respect to ESG matters inour portfolio: and building on the results of our portfolio review on ESG matters to engage with portfolio management teams andassist them in achieving improvements.
For more information, please go tothe Corporate responsibility section of our Investor relations website.
For more information, go to: www.
com cr Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 65 Governance Information on how 3i is governed and managed, as well as our Remuneration reportand details on our Board and Leadership Team.
Board of Directors and Leadership Team 66 Statutory and corporate governance information 68 Corporate governance statement 74 Directors remuneration report 81
