Corporate responsibility This year, we have worked to further align corporate Charity and community responsibility with our core business strategy, engaging with The Group recognises its responsibility to make a positive stakeholders on a range of issues from our responsible investing impact on the communities in which it operates.
Alongside our capabilities to corporate governance public policy debates, employee volunteering programme, which is now in its second managing our talent pipeline and developing our environmental year, 2012 marks a milestone in the Groups philanthropic programme.
Of special note this year is the establishment of activities with the launch of the Aberdeen Asset Management the Aberdeen Asset Management Charitable Foundation, the Charitable Foundation.
The Foundation was established in aim of which is to expand and formalise philanthropic efforts March 2012 with two core themes identified by the Board across our global operations.
- emerging markets and local communities, reflecting our The corporate responsibility steering committee meets every ambition to give back to those areas which are key strategic two months and is chaired by the Deputy Chief Executive, focuses of the business and to build on the established pattern Andrew Laing, who reports to the Board on developments, of giving to communities in which Aberdeen employees live risks and opportunities.
Attracting and retaining talent and and work.
maintaining high quality client service and delivery remain Under the emerging markets theme and in light of the multiple the key risks and appropriate focus is placed on having the issues of disadvantage that exist there, the Foundation has initiatives in place to ensure that they are managed accordingly.
chosen to support a children's charity in Brazil.
Further details on the material environmental, social and At a community level, local foundation committees have been governance ESG issues faced by the Group can be found in encouraged to seek partnerships with smaller charities where our annual corporate responsibility report, which is available funds can be seen to have a meaningful and measurable impact on the Group website and, for the first time, has been prepared and where employees can use their time and skills to support according to the Global Reporting Initiative's Sustainability the selected projects.
In the first seven months of operation, Reporting Framework.
donations were made to 46 charities in 14 of the Groups As with last year, we continue to enjoy commitment from the global office locations.
These charities have ranged from those Board through to regional offices and individual teams, ensuring focused on supporting underprivileged children and education, a seamless flow between our responsible business practices and to disaster relief and working with young people involved in the day to day global operations.
youth justice system or at risk of involvement.
In addition, the Group also has strategic sponsorships such as Stewardship Aberdeen Asset Management Cowes Week and the Aberdeen Corporate governance lies at the heart of our investment Asset Management Scottish Open and the Group has been able process as we believe that those companies adopting best to go beyond the Foundation to assist partner charities at all of practices in corporate governance will be more successful the events.
in their core activities and deliver enhanced returns to shareholders.
The Groups Corporate Governance Principles Environment provide a global framework for investment analysis, shareholder Since the development of our Environmental Management engagement and proxy voting, combining international best System EMS, we have worked to reduce our carbon footprint practice with an emphasis on understanding the economic, and minimise waste and resource use.
Given the nature of the legal and cultural context of each company.
This year, the Group business, carbon emissions from our offices, emissions from published its second annual equity engagement report which business travel and waste generation are our most significant details the breath of our engagement with investee companies direct environmental impact.
and illustrates how this engagement may affect investment decisions.
This is published on the corporate governance page of The global environmental committee and facilities teams our website.
have responsibility for coordinating environmental activities across the business and ensuring that activities are carried out We endeavour to exercise proxy votes at all shareholder in line with the Group wide environmental policy.
Regional meetings where we are authorised to do so by our clients.
committees are in place to implement programmes at a local voting decisions are made by our investment managers, level and to build on the work that has taken place in previous not outsourced to a third party, and therefore reflect our years to reduce our environmental footprint.
knowledge of the investee company and discussions held with management.
In the year to 30 September 2012, Aberdeen Highlights this year include the certification of our UK voted on over 18,000 resolutions at more than 1,600 operations to the globally recognised environmental standard shareholder meetings, supporting management in over 92% ISO 14001:2004 and the expansion of the EMS to cover over of proposals.
Our voting record is regularly updated on the 75% of the Group by headcount.
corporate governance page of our website.
48 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Carbon emissions from our offices Waste Initiatives including the installation of smart meters and Increasing recycling rates and reducing waste are key priorities.
rolling replacement of LED lights have resulted in carbon In the UK, all paper and cardboard are recycled and represent emissions from our UK offices reducing by 8% on the prior 70% of our total waste.
Paper used in all of our offices is FSC year.
Elsewhere, energy audits have been completed in our sourced.
Frankfurt, Helsinki and Stockholm offices and our Sydney office continues to purchase electricity generated from renewable sources.
Carbon emissions from business travel Reducing emissions from business travel remains a challenge, however, we are committed to making progress in this area.
Key performance indicators and targets We classify business travel as air, train, car mileage and hotel To help focus efforts and achieve improvements, key accommodation.
This year, focus was placed on extending performance indicators and targets have been set across the and improving our video conferencing capabilities, with high seven pillars of our corporate responsibility programme, details quality facilities now installed in 14 of our global offices.
As a result, video conferencing usage has more than doubled of which can be found in our corporate responsibility report on from last year.
Absolute figure Relative figure Variable 2012 2011 Units 2012 2011 Units Carbon footprint office energy 2,138 2,191 tonnes CO 2.50 2.79 tonnes CO FTE 2 2 Carbon footprint business travel 3,055 2,668 tonnes CO 3.50 3.40 tonnes CO FTE 2 2 General waste 46.9 47.1 tonnes 56.9 59.9 kgs FTE Recycled waste 85.8 85.6 tonnes 104.2 109.0 kgs FTE www.
