Our people We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented and motivated individuals who put clients at the heart of our business.
Learning, development & talent management We have a flat management structure and a By providing learning and development opportunities, on-theculture of close knit teams, built up from a job coaching and mentoring, we aim to ensure that everyone combination of experienced professionals and who works within Aberdeen has the resources they need to more recent recruits.
This not only benefits learn and build their own career.
our clients but also our employees, helping to We fully support performance management and continuous develop long-term and personal relationships.
Our annual appraisal process for all employees is at the core of our development process, providing an Recruitment and selection opportunity to discuss performance, set objectives and identify Our strategy is to recruit from the bottom up, placing an areas for future development.
emphasis on succession planning and developing our future leaders.
We operate a summer internship programme which, For individuals in some areas of the business, professional for many, provides a stepping stone to a permanent career training is necessary to ensure that they are proficient in the at Aberdeen.
Our internships provide a unique insight into skills required for their jobs.
Those wishing to pursue a career in our Group, our people and our culture and is the basis for our fund management are required to complete relevant regulatory graduate recruitment.
There are opportunities for others to complete industry qualifications.
We have further developed our graduate rotation programme within the business over the last three years and increased Apprenticeship programme the number of hires significantly.
We have engaged with the In March 2012, we launched a pilot apprenticeship scheme in business and the graduates to ensure both the business needs our Aberdeen office for local school leavers seeking to pursue and the graduate development needs are being met.
There are a career in our operations division.
This scheme stems from graduates in all UK offices, Philadelphia, Singapore and Sydney the recognition that there are many school leavers who want with additional rotations in Luxembourg, Germany, France, to move straight into the workplace from the classroom, as an Finland, and Switzerland.
If successful, we will open the scheme to a wider community across the Group.
We have recruited 134 graduates globally from 1994 to 2012 and, of those hired, 107 are still employed by the Group.
Equality and diversity As a global organisation with customers spanning a multitude Competitive compensation of countries, cultures and professions, we view diversity as a Rewarding employees for their contribution is key to recruiting valuable business asset.
More information on how we set compensation packages is given in the Remuneration We strive to be an employer of choice in the 24 countries in report starting on page 50. which we operate and to provide an environment in which everyone is treated equally.
By having a workforce that reflects Mentoring the communities where we work, we gain an important Our mentoring scheme is now established in the UK and competitive advantage.
We do not tolerate harassment or we are in the process of expanding the scheme in Europe bullying.
and the US and also plan to establish an Asian programme.
Mentoring enhances personal and career development and, as Details of the Group's equal opportunities policy is available on a consequence, creates a sustainable talent pipeline.
The role the website and this policy is supplemented by specific policies of the mentor is to independently offer advice and guidance that reflect local employment legislation and expectations.
to allow the individual the opportunity to develop their skills, The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for knowledge and ability.
If employees become disabled, we provide continuing employment wherever possible and subject to local laws and regulations.
For the purposes of training and career development, all employees are treated equally.
18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Aberdeen Asset Management has a sponsorship deal with Scottish Hockey.
Our support also aims to encourage grass root development of the sport and encouragement of players to continue beyond school and participate in club hockey.
