Business Review Corporate Responsibility ACTING WITH INTEGRITY.
AN INDUSTRY LEADER IN PLAYER PROTECTION.
Fru Hazlitt Independent Non-executive Director and Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee Committed to responsible gambling From day one, Betfair has done things differently.
Innovation, We have strong foundations in place and are committed to transparency and fairness for the customer were values that growing our reputation as an industry leader on issues relating underpinned the business from the start, but corporate responsibility to consumer protection.
CR wasnt something we really talked about in the early days.
It was just part of business as usual.
Our values The four core values of how we do business are: Over the past decade, as the shape and size of the business has changed, our approach to CR has evolved.
Protecting players, engaging with stakeholders and managing our social impacts is part of our vision to become the world number one online sports betting operator.
It is not a separate agenda: its a strategic business issue thats integral to everything we do and relevant to everyone in the business.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Our approach is based on collaboration, and this report shows how The CR Committee meets up to four times a year and is responsible for we put our CR thinking into practice.
For example, we work with reviewing the Companys policies and advising the Board on social, educational institutions to support research and further increase ethical and environmental matters.
understanding of responsible gambling and were refreshing our community investment strategy to focus efforts on the areas where we can have the most positive impact in our local communities.
Stakeholders Customers Business partners Employees Suppliers Regulators Local communities Government Civil Society organisations Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Helping our customers gamble responsibly Being trusted by our customers Betfair has a strict underage policy and a rigorously applied age Betfairs primary goal is to ensure its customers have an enjoyable verication process.
Information and warnings are carried on our gambling experience.
Our responsible gambling policies and strategies homepages, within advertising and during account registration.
It is illegal ensure we listen and respond to the concerns of our customers, public for anyone under the age of 18 to open an account or gamble on Betfair.
interest groups, regulators and policy makers.
We are registered as a gambling content site with the Internet Content Rating Association ICRA, part of the Family Online Safety Institute, Our responsible gambling policy sets out our commitment to minimise which provides general information and advice about internet safety.
the negative effects of problem gambling and to promote responsible We also encourage customers to use parental ltering solutions.
Betfair helps to protect customers, their families, communities and vulnerable groups from problem gambling through a range of measures We put player protection at the heart of our business strategy.
We take from player protection tools on the website to support for problem great pride in having a commitment to player protection that goes above gambling charities.
As well as promoting responsible gambling practice and beyond the requirements of any licence we hold.
We believe this among our customers, we work with leading academic researchers to commitment helps us to set the pace with regulators and governments understand the impact of Betfair products on the health of customers, in raising standards throughout the industry.
Betfair provides player protection tools which allow customers to manage their gambling if and when required.
Before launching a new product, Betfair is particularly concerned about vulnerable groups who are notably service or promotion, we use a risk assessment tool aimed at identifying more susceptible to problem gambling.
We are focused on the protection any potential problems.
of minors and vulnerable people, and we endeavour not to direct our advertising at these two groups.
We are working to ensure that every Betfair product includes protection features such as deposit and loss limit functionality: self-exclusion options: reality checks and session timers and links to information about responsible gambling and sources of help.
More information You can access the latest information and read more about our Corporate Responsibility at: corporate.
com  Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Our advertising and marketing code seeks to ensure that advertising and Analysis of Betfair customer data will provide considerable information sales promotion activities do not give gamblers misleading information, to guide the process of risk assessment and the renement of player such as a false impression of the odds on winning.
This research will develop a knowledge base to identify a risk gradient for customers, taking into consideration adverse reactions to We are committed to helping customers get information about gambling gambling and interventions.
Identifying high risk gambling patterns and related problems and how to avoid them, as well as helping them behavioural markers that predict the emergence of gambling problems evaluate their own behaviour and develop change strategies if they wish will give us the opportunity to develop and implement evidence-based to do so.
We do this by providing educational information for employees prevention and intervention projects to prevent problem gambling.
and customers on our dedicated responsible gambling microsite at www.
Identifying a problem early In the past year independent research on self-exclusion conducted by can help prevent it from developing into something more serious.
the National Centre for Social Research has led to an increased The responsible gambling site can be accessed via links placed understanding of what leads players to exclude themselves.
This has throughout the main Betfair website and were beginning to roll enabled us to put in place a strategy to educate more vulnerable groups this out internationally.
It contains: in order to prevent harm.
As a company we believe it is vital to understand our customers and how available on the site, and how to use them they interact with our products.
As part of this, we have partnerships with research organisations to ne tune our consumer protection work.
control of gambling Acting with integrity tools available to customers We always act with integrity because we want to build trusted relationships with our customers, regulators, local communities and organisations that can offer valuable support and help for problem sports organisations around the world.
We are committed to assisting gamblers.
sports governing bodies SGBs in maintaining the integrity of all sports, and Betfairs approach has brought unprecedented openness and We want to maintain sector leading responsible gambling standards transparency to the way in which the gambling industry interacts with across our portfolio of products and continue to be accredited by G4, the sport on betting integrity related matters.
Global Gambling Guidance Group, which recognises responsible remote and e-gambling operators.
G4 standards exceed many current It is essential for Betfairs long-term sustainability that its customers have jurisdictional or regulatory standards in individual countries.
confidence in the honesty of the markets on which they place bets.
This means that Betfairs business interests are aligned with those of SGBs in We see cash and in-kind contributions towards responsible gambling wanting sport to be conducted fairly and without corruption.
research, education and support as part of our duty of care.
We donate to nine non-governmental organisations NGOs internationally that Our dedicated Integrity Team uses sophisticated forensic and analytical provide education and treatment for problem gamblers: tools to monitor betting activity.
Crucially, every transaction on Betfair is recorded.
In addition, we have led the way in information-sharing agreements with sports authorities: We have signed over 50 Memoranda Gamcare UK of Understanding MoUs with leading SGBs such as the British Gordon Moody Association UK Horseracing Authority, FIFA, UEFA and recently the International Olympic National Problem Gambling Clinic UK Committee to cover the London 2012 Games.
In practice MOUs are a commitment from us to share any relevant customer and transactional data with SGBs in the event of a betting integrity related issue being detected on their sport.
Our people We have over 2,000 employees around the world, with major sites in the UK, Ireland, Gibraltar, Malta, Romania and the US.
As a global business, The research and analysis were undertaking will give us an even better we need good communication so that we can understand, support, grow understanding of our customers behaviour, so that we can further rene and develop the people who will help us to execute and deliver our our responsible gambling activities to the greater benefit of our strategy and vision year by year.
We work hard to be an employer of business and, crucially, our customers too.
choice and recognise the need to attract, develop, retain and reward individuals who add value to our unique business.
We actively support research that will contribute to societys understanding of gambling.
We are working with academic partners on Performance management is a crucial lever to delivering high our own internal structured research programme, which aims to ensure performance and during the year we have delivered training to equip our that new key insights on problem gambling are understood and acted on.
managers to have quality conversations, set clear performance levels and We also support external research by contributing to a national fund for develop people for future roles.
This work is supported by talent and problem gambling research, education and treatment.
We seek to make succession planning which determines the strength of our leadership similar arrangements in every country where we are operational.
talent pipeline, based on capability, performance, potential and career aspirations.
We listen to our employees, respond to their feedback and communicate the actions we have taken.
In partnership with Gallup we measure our employee engagement through six-monthly surveys and use the detailed results to develop prioritised and structured action plans for improving engagement and performance throughout the business.
We use the Company intranet and regular updates from the CEO to ensure that everyone understands the Companys focus and vision as it moves forward.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 We review employee performance annually against objectives agreed a Community and charity year earlier, and use this opportunity to formally identify training and We take pride in our local communities.
Our community investment career development opportunities.
As in the previous year, the pay award programme encourages employees to get actively engaged with the for 2011 was performance related and a budget of 3.5% was made communities where we live and work, and provides investment in available for distribution.
All Betfair employees receive responsible gambling awareness training within their first three months of employment.
Sport in the community is about local people, local facilities, local groups and organisations working together to provide opportunities to enjoy Our industry is often regarded as male-dominated because of its focus on sport.
Recognising the importance of community sport, we set up Cash 4 technology, but we are committed to equal opportunities and a diverse, Clubs in 2008 to offer sports clubs in the UK the chance to win grants inclusive and representative workplace where everyone is treated with ranging from 250 to 1,000.
The programme has since launched in dignity and respect.
Australia and Malta and to date weve supported 234 clubs.
A diverse panel of judges helps ensure that Cash 4 Clubs is supporting the clubs that are making a real impact in their communities.
We are proud that Dame Alongside our commitment to providing a vibrant working environment Kelly Holmes, Mark Foster and Karen Pickering have been part of this that values wellbeing and diversity, we recognise our wider legal and process alongside MPs, journalists and sports administrators.
moral obligation to provide a safe and healthy working environment for our people, visitors and members of the public who may be affected by We also work with Charlton Athletic Community Trust on a community our activities.
Our operations are fully compliant with all aspects of the football programme in South Africa: support Greenhouse, a charity which relevant Health and Safety H&S law, codes of practice and approved empowers young people in Londons most disadvantaged communities to industry standards.
We never knowingly expose anyone to any risk to their realise their potential through high quality, intensive sport and dance health, safety and welfare.
Our H&S policy statement reects Betfairs programmes: and are headline sponsors of the annual Betfair LifeCycle commitment to managing health, safety and welfare across the whole Challenge in Malta.
business through selected senior representatives who form the National Health and Safety Forum.
In addition, all of our facilities managers have IOSH accreditation and two employees are accredited at NEBOSH level.
Betfair is one of the biggest betting operator supporters of racing in the UK.
Since 2000, we have paid nearly 56 million in Horserace Betting It is a statutory requirement to keep a record of all accidents, incidents Levy.
We continue to pay the Levy in exactly the same way as other and near misses that occur at work.
bookmakers licensed in the UK by contributing a xed share, currently There were no reportable fatalities or major injuries across our business set at 10.75% of the profits we make from British customers betting on and a health, safety and environment inspection visit in the UK resulted British horseracing.
in no enforcement notices or prosecutions for health, safety or environmental offences.
We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our business and are monitoring our carbon emissions to better understand our direct impact.
We recognise that good environmental management is an integral part of any business and our current priorities are energy performance, corporate travel and waste and recycling.
To date were making an impact by: Richard Negus, Racing Welfare entire ofce systems can be switched off at weekends, resulting in huge savings in consumption: and installing motion sensor lighting in all ofces where practicable business air travel.
Following the roll-out to global sites, we aim to provide external videoconferencing facilities to enable more efficient communications with non-Betfair locations purchase bikes interest free, and at a discounted rate and redundant IT equipment where possible.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Grassroots sport Local communities Cash 4 Clubs is Betfairs own programme which enables community As part of our commitment to the communities in which we live and sports clubs to apply for a grant to improve facilities, buy new equipment, operate, we have a dedicated CSR resource linked to each of our ofces.
improve coaching and nurture young talent.
Since its inception weve Employee engagement is a key driver for this activity, alongside a broader supported 234 sports clubs with grants of up to 1,000. objective to create innovative community partnerships that nd solutions to local issues.
Grassroots horseracing Charity of the Year Betfair has supported a wide range of courses, events, racing The partnership between Betfair and The Prostate Cancer Charity focused organisations and charities see page 33 for more information.
on building a new supporter base for the charity across the horseracing industry: a series of fundraising events raised a total of 145,247.
In addition to continuing to pay the Levy, Betfair is investing 3 million into racings grassroots between 2010 and the end of 2012.
From this Betfair employees have traditionally nominated a Charity of the Year, fund, we have supported a wide range of courses, racing organisations and which everyone across Europe gets behind and fundraises for.
The charities including: Prostate Cancer Charity was our ofcial charity partner for 2011 and we raised 145,247 through a series of events involving employees over the course of the year.
We also support employees raising funds for their own money at their xtures chosen causes.
Go Racing in Yorkshire Employees are entitled to take two working days a year to volunteer for Medical Adviser and 50,000 to Oaksey House a recognised community service or registered charity of their choice.
Racing Welfare, and organising the Pride of Racing Awards in July 2011 to recognise the sports unsung heroes Each year we give one employee the opportunity to join The Bobby Moore Fund on an overseas project, which in addition to raising funds to tackle going to the Riding for the Disabled Association Charity, The Bob bowel cancer in the UK supports international projects that help to Champion Cancer Trust, Racing Welfare and the National improve young lives abroad.
Paul Cockburn, Operation Trainer, joined 39 Rehabilitation Hospital in Ireland other volunteers on Project Namibia and spent 10 days in the Tubusis Settlement, in the Damaraland region at the foot of the Brandberg Massif, with additional support through sponsorship of a black tie event and to renovate the local schools facilities.
The project saw the volunteers charity race.
spending long days in the heat painting and decorating, repairing the building, extending the school and creating a shaded area and a football pitch.
Developed in partnership with local villagers, the work undertaken has left a lasting legacy for the community.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Local Communities U K Crisis Greenhouse Maggies Cancer Care Centres SPEAR Special Olympics GB Stevenage Community Trust Wildfowl and Wetland Trust Ireland Romania St Andrews Resource Centre Asociatia Autism Transilvania Fettercairn Youth Horse Project Asociatia Little People Romania Claudia Safta Charity Association Malta Association for Abandoned Animals KISS Africa Lifecycle Tomisina Cat Sanctuary ii Key statistics 80% of volunteers said 90% of volunteers said volunteering increased since the activity theyre their job satisfaction more likely to talk positively 80% 90% about the Company 84% of volunteers 86% of volunteers said the participated to give activity they participated something back to society in improved their sense of 84% 86% well being ii Data collated from responses to FY12 volunteering survey.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
