38 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com SUSTAINABILITY BG GROUPS STRATEGY ON SUSTAINABILITY PLACES A STRONG EMPHASIS, WHEREVER THE GROUP OPERATES, ON DEVELOPING AND MAINTAINING A BROAD LICENCE TO OPERATE, BUILT ON PARTNERSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS.
Sustainability in BG Group Governments, in many circumstances, considerations, at key stages.
In this way, For BG Group, sustainability is a prerequisite finditdifficult to meet those expectations, sustainability considerations are embedded forlong-term performance and value protection whether because of fiscal constraint or inprojects, from when an opportunity is for the Groups shareholders.
BG Groups because the challenges of globalisation and firstidentified and assessed, to final delivery.
commitment to sustainability is based on the transnational issues, such as climate change, robust application of its Business Principles.
energy security, low-cost foreign competition Examples of how BG Group embeds Operating safely is, and always will be, the or migratory flows, have constrained their sustainable working include: Groups first priority.
The Groups belief is that room for manoeuvre.
allinjuries are preventable, but BG Groups incorporating environmental considerations Companies like BG Group will always need commitment to safety goes broader and ininvestment and business decisions: towork closely with governments which directly engages the interests of the Groups generally own the resources for which the including non-financial factors in supplier stakeholders.
A failure to operate safely can Group is exploring and producing.
Governments screening and procurement: alsomean environmental damage and will often be BG Groups partners and their disruption to communities.
For anoil and carrying out risk assessments, such as decisions will determine how the Group gascompany, sustainability is, in the first environmental and social impact assessments: develops and delivers projects.
mandating appropriate behaviours: BG Group recognises not only the support Similar considerations apply to BG Groups implementing monitoring and assurance ofgovernments but of the stakeholders who Business Principles in other areas, such as mechanisms, such as Speak Up, for reporting influence them and their policies, and whose ethical conduct, environmental stewardship, ethical concerns or breaches: and actions can bring sudden and unpredictable human rights and the way the Group treats its change to countries in which the Group works.
linking remuneration to HSSE performance.
BG Groups approach is set out in itsPolicies and Standards.
These are commitments That is why BG Groups strategy on BG Group monitors its performance, not just that BG Group makes about theway it operates sustainability places a strong emphasis, in absolute terms, but also against stakeholder everywhere in the world, irrespective oflocation wherever the Group operates, on developing expectations, which is an important aspect and local practice.
and maintaining a broad Licence to Operate ofmanaging sustainability.
strategy, built on partnerships with stakeholders: But sustainability goes beyond the rigorous and ingovernments, of course, but also more Governance thorough application of these Principles.
It also broadlyacross the political spectrum, as The Board of BG Group has a dedicated means scrupulous attention to the expectations wellasincommunities, non-governmental Sustainability Committee.
TheCommittee, and interests of BG Groups stakeholders.
organisations NGOs and civil society.
BGGroups chaired by Sir David Manning, assists aims are: to create a sound foundation of management in the formulation and BG Group believes that business success must consistent values for the decisions the Group implementation of policies, principles and be rooted in partnerships with its stakeholders, takes: to assess correctly and manage practices, and in setting sustainability and that the Group must be ready to consult successfully political and social risks: and to strategy.
Further information regarding the with, and account to, those stakeholders for maximise the benefits that willarise from work undertaken bythe Committee during the decisions taken about activities and operations.
responding proactively and imaginatively theyear can be found in the Corporate Without support from stakeholders, BG Groups tothe expectations and challenges set governance report onpage 56. achievements will be unsustainable.
Sustainability reporting and materiality The challenges in this area are becoming more How sustainability is delivered Good practice in sustainability reporting complex as the stakeholder landscape is changing: Every BG Group employee is responsible for includes identifying and reporting on material sustainable working.
Every BG Group operation sustainability issues, which are identified Throughout the world, citizens and must fulfil the Business Principles and comply through an internal and external research electorates, particularly the young, are with the Groups Standards.
These are environmental, social increasingly communicating and mobilising setStandards and monitor and measure key orgovernance issues, arising in thereporting through social media rather than established areas of non-financial performance.
These year in question, that could haveasignificant and formal political processes.
This has given functions are: Environment: Ethical Conduct: impact on the business inthe short or the great influence to activist minorities.
Human Resources: Safety, Health and Security: longer term.
These groups have growing expectations and SocialPerformance.
ofgovernments, as a result of improved In 2012, BG Group strengthened this process education, more information about the lives The BG Group Value Assurance Framework byconducting more extensive internal and ofothers through the internet and 24 7 media, also sets out the requirement for every project external stakeholder research.
and a strong sense of entitlement to have to take into account a range of sustainability theirviews heard.
The Global Reporting Initiative GRI, which sets a framework for sustainability reporting, describes material issues as topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organisations ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large.
Business review Sustainability continued 39 BG GROUP BUSINESS PRINCIPLES CONDUCT OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT We act with integrity, We treat people with fairness, We work to ensure that We make a positive fairness andtransparency.
neighbouring communities contributionto the protection We comply with legal, We help employees develop benefit from our presence ofthe environment.
We go beyond compliance requirements.
We believe that all injuries We listen to neighbouring with local environmental We do not tolerate corruption arepreventable.
communities and take regulation tomeet in any form, whether direct We provide healthy, safe and accountoftheir interests.
We support human rights best practice.
Our investment criteria take withinour areas of influence.
We reduce to the minimum account of economic returns, practicable any adverse environmental impacts, effects ofour operations social consequences and on the environment.
High standards of corporate governance are integral to the way we manage our business.
The Queensland Gas Company Limited Sustainable Communities Funds successful project partner, Toolooa State High School Yarning Circle Project 40 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Sustainability continued Safety first Global Safety Week in December 2011.
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY BG Group puts safety first and believes that Global Safety Week aims to encourage ISSUES safety must never be compromised in pursuit ownership of personal safety behaviour, and of operational objectives.
BG Groups goal is asksemployees and teams to discuss safety BG Groups internal and external research zero injuries across all operations and the Group and make personal safety commitments.
process in 2012 showed that material is committed to the continuous identification sustainability issues forthe Group are: of solutions to reduce safety related risk.
BG Group In addition to the industry personal safety believes that establishing a safe environment metric TRCF BG Group also uses a metric to climate change: begins with fostering a culture that supports and measure asset integrity, and so help manage energy efficiency: encourages safe behaviour.
Leading from the top the risk of major accident hazards.
The key environmental impact management: is essential if the Group is to achieve its safety goal.
indicator BG Group uses for measuring asset ethical conduct: integrity performance is loss of primary health and wellbeing: In 2012, sadly, two people died working for containment a metric that records any human rights: BGGroup See Chief Executives statement.
These new country entry and political Thorough investigations were conducted and incidents are classified by severity, with riskmanagement: the findings and recommendations were shared Tier1being losses of over 500 kg for safety: with the Group.
The Group deeply regrets this non-transmission and distribution and over security: loss of life and every effort is being made to  and distribution socio-economic reporting: ensure that lessons learnt are communicated T&D.
In2012, BG Group recorded 18 Tier 1 succession and human resources: effectively to the relevant areas of the Group.
incidents, 11fewer than 2011, of which 16 were unconventional gas: inthe now discontinued T&Dsegment.
water: and BG Groups occupational safety performance working with communities.
in 2012, as measured by TRCF, was disappointing Asset integrity and HSSE performance at 2.26 against the Groups target of 1.35. aretracked and reported to the GEC and A number of these material issuesare Underlying this result, in particular, was safety Sustainability Committee on a quarterly basis.
detailed on this page and opposite.
For more performance in QGC where BG Group and BG Group also ran a high-profile campaign information, including details of the other contractor partners faced challenges relating to toraise awareness ofmajor accident hazards material issues not covered inthisReport, the large contractor workforce.
Safety TRCF across the Group.
During 2012, more than refer to the Sustainability Report.
performance in QGC did improve in 2012, 350people, including certain Non-Executive reducing from 8.06 in 2011 to 6.39 a reduction Directors and members of the Sustainability of21% and the severity of injuries arising was Committee, participated in major accident reduced.
However, it still fell short of the hazard training courses at adedicated site Delivery of BG Group greenhouse gas internal target of 5.0. inCumbria.
Training involved presentations, a reduction target one million tonnes demonstrations of various scenarios and the In response to this, QGC, working with its dramatisation of a major accident.
BG Group 1.5 contractor partners, has developed a number of continued to implement the findings from an 1.2 initiatives targeted at improving personal safety internal study initiated after the BP Macondo Target behaviour.
These focus on strengthening and Deepwater Horizon incident, and to engage in 1.0 unifying existing safety management systems industry initiatives in protecting, preventing and reinforcing the safety culture, aswell as and responding to major accident hazards addressing safety behaviour andsupervision, andmajor loss of containment incidents.
Excluding operations in QGC, theGroup achieved a TRCF rate of 1.02 Unconventional gas which met the Groups TRCF target.
BG Group explores for and produces 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 unconventional gas in two regions: coal a Annualised.
Working safely with contractors continues to be seamgas in Australia: and shale gas in the a priority for BG Group.
BG Group recognises the importance was introduced by BG Groups Chief Operating ofconstantly monitoring and improving a Total recordable case frequency Officer in January 2012 to build on the existing working approaches in this emerging field.
per million work hours safety priority of contractor safety management.
2.5 2.26 In particular, One Team aims to instil in everyone In February 2011, BG Group published its who works for BG Group that they think of approach to developing and producing 1.92 2.0 themselves and contractor partners as a single unconventional gas, with eight key principles 1.74 1.59 team, with a single purpose to deliver the forresponsible working.
These principles, 1.5 business plan safely.
One Team asks people to which reflect research and stakeholder 1.34 0.94 1.25 care about the safety of all others on the team consultation, are: working in the community: 1.0 1.02 and emphasises the importance of communicating well design and engineering: testing and 0.75 0.5 equally with the whole team, whether employees monitoring: chemicals disclosure: responsible or contractors.
BG Group also set up a One Team chemical use: managing water responsibly: 0 website that can be accessed by anyone.
minimising emissions: and communicating 2008 2010 2012 andworking with stakeholders.
BG Group BG Group, excluding QGC The Gold Hard Hat Award scheme, a BG Group a Includes employees and contractors working on operated assets.
recognition programme, was launched in During 2012, BG Group made progress against March 2012 to recognise individuals who made these principles, including with regard to: outstanding contributions to safety.
BG Group also ran a Global Safety Week in July 2012 to responsible chemicals use in the USA, where follow up on commitments made during our the Group started market and field research into environmentally preferable solutions forhydraulic fracturing: Business review Sustainability continued 41 water management in Queensland and the In 2012, emissions from BG Groups operated We believe that we will deliver better and USA.
In Queensland, BG Group progressed businesses were 7.7 million tonnes mt of moresustainable results if we have a culture workon four state-of-the-art reverse osmosis carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, an increase of where different perspectives are encouraged 2 plants which will treat up to 97% of produced 3% on 2011 levels.
CO e emissions on an equity and considered.
To achieve this, we aim to 2 water, and in the USA, the Group invested share basis, including operations where BG Group builda workforce that is diverse in ethnicity, $320000 to field trial water treatment is an investor but not an operator, were 10% gender, background and approach.
technologies, due to be completed by the lower year-on-year, at 9.6 mt CO e. 2 We aspire to increase the proportion of women endof the year: and in leadership positions to 20% by 2020.
Water emissions management in the USA, where BG Group uses and produces water in a BGGroup introduced green completion BG Group also plans to implement a series number of ways across its operations, from technology for allwells and started work with ofspecific actions on gender diversity, drilling to pipeline construction.
Many of partners on amajor University of Texas study including: involving more female employees BGGroups activities result in discharges of to provide reliable estimates of leakage rates inour graduate recruitment activities: ensuring water or effluent to the environment, which during unconventional gas production.
The female employees identified in thesenior and can present risks to water quality if not Group also set up an internal energy efficiency emerging talent pools have an appropriate properly managed.
and emissions study to look at fugitive mentor: and reviewing the Groups flexible emissions from pipelines.
In 2012, BG Groups new water strategy Climate change wasapproved.
This strategy states that all As at 31 December 2012, BG Group employed BG Group recognises the link between human BGGroups operations with potential water atotal of 5 713 people, drawn from more than activity and climate change and acknowledges management impacts must carry out risk 70 nationalities, the majority of whom work its responsibility as an energy producer to assessments that consider factors such as outside the UK.
During the year, more than manage its own impact on the environment.
water scarcity, water quality, disposal options, 700employees were on assignments outside BGGroup is committed to improving its energy volumes of water required, potential impacts theirhome country.
The employee turnover efficiency and emissions performance and the on other water users, or the potential impacts ratefor 2012 was 13.8% 2011: 11%.
Group remains one of the few large companies on operations as a result of local water inthe oil and gas sector to set a voluntary, availability and quality.
Working with communities internal target for reducing GHG emissions.
Recent events, from the Deepwater Horizon This strategy was also designed to ensure incident to the Arab Spring, have underlined In 2012, despite rising production and rising thatBG Groups operations develop water the extent to which strong community views total emissions, BG Group achieved the target management plans appropriate to local and feelings can have dramatic consequences set in 2007 to prevent one million tonnes circumstances and risks.
In Queensland, forinstitutions and individual companies.
More than 50 projects in BGGroup progressed its investment in new Bothin local communities and in wider nine countries were completed, which together reverse osmosis plants that will provide a new society, BG Group will only be accepted if reduced GHG emissions by more than 1.2 mtpa source of water to industry and agriculture: itmeets environmental, social and see chart opposite.
while in the USA, field trials of new water .
BG Group also took action in 2012 to set a BG Group invested a total of $27 million in newemissions reduction target for 2013-17 Succession and human resources socialprojects across the world, focusing on whichaims to reduce the overall intensity Attracting and retaining the right people is investments related to: vocational education ofBGGroups GHG emissions by 10% over fundamental to running a sustainable business.
and training: livelihoods development: and thefive-year period.
While BG Groups overall BG Group takes a long-term approach, investing education, especially science, technology, production profile is rising, reducing emissions in individuals while looking ahead to the engineering and maths STEM.
intensity is a focus for BG Groups operations futureneeds of the Group.
across the world, and the Group continues to During 2012, BG Group made good progress put incentives and processes in place to drive A particular focus was the development of inimplementing and expanding its STEM improved performance and deliver valuable aframework for succession planning.
This programme in Brazil and in the UK.
During 2012, the framework provides a clear process with key Australia, the Group continued to run a range Group also prepared for the implementation steps, clearly defined roles and responsibilities, ofcommunity programmes, in partnership ofnew GHG emissions regulations, trading guidelines for those involved in assessing with local organisations, which very specifically schemes and carbon pricing mechanisms, competencies, and a timeline for implementation.
address theneeds of local communities anddeveloped a Public Position on Climate affected byBGGroups operations.
Change, which sets out the core principles that This framework aims to identify potential guide BGGroups response to the challenge of successors to Group Executive-level positions climatechange.
and to increase the pool of talented individuals who could fillthose roles.
Creating the framework During 2012, BG Group continued selectively to has alsohelped develop understanding of research and review new technology investments where BGGroup has gaps in its internal coverage one way in which the Groups long-term and where it needs to look outside of the environmental performance, and business Group forcandidates.
In 2012, succession plans performance, can be improved.
The Group also for the Groups most senior 75 positions and continued to develop the Carbon Management critical technical roles were put in place.
Technology Hub, a virtual organisation working together with leading external organisations BG Group, recognising the need to increase female on the development of low-carbon solutions.
representation at the senior leadership level, has developed the following diversity statement: 42 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com DRILL FLOOR OF THE DEEPSEA METRO I DRILLSHIP, OFFSHORE TANZANIA BG Group has had a remarkable run of success drilling offshore Tanzania, with seven consecutive natural gas discoveries.
Corporate governance 43 44 Board of Directors DIRECTORS REPORT: 46 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 48 Corporate governance Introducing the Board 58 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code ofDirectorsandsenior 60 Remuneration report management.
Our approach 76 Other disclosures tocorporate governance andremuneration.
