22 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Alliance Trust Savings has been simplified and is now well positioned to perform profitably throughout 2013.
We completed a programme of transformational change 4.1bn which included the disposal of its SSAS business and, after the end of the year, its Full SIPP business.
The platform business made strong progress during the last assets under administration year with assets under administration increasing by 21% an increase of 21% and representing a 4% share of the direct client market.
Alliance Trust Savings is now in an excellent position to expand its platform business and capitalise on the opportunities in a market anticipated to see significant growth over the next five years.
We have already witnessed such growth in Australia and the US, where the platform markets are more mature.
Additionally, the advent of the Retail Distribution Review 386,767 RDR, which will bring in transparent charging for advice and platforms, plays directly to the strengths of Alliance Trust Savings as it becomes increasingly known as a number of trades during the year, champion of pricing transparency and as one of the few an increase of 10% platforms where customers can access funds with low management charges.
We plan to promote these benefits through a significant advertising and marketing campaign in 2013 targeted at the intermediary channel which currently represents around 10% of business inflows.
This will become a key area of focus for Alliance Trust Savings as we seek to exploit the opportunities in this channel.
The Alliance Trust Savings proposition is to offer a high quality trading platform for direct and intermediary clients, 0.4m which delivers value for money together with award winning service.
loss generated on continuing operations in the year, against a loss last period of 2.3m Continuing Operations Assets under Administration Revenue Dec 12 4.1bn Dec 12 9.6m Dec 11 3.3bn Dec 11 6.9m Jan 11 3.2bn Jan 11 6.9m Overview Business Review Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 23 Financial Performance continuing operations Key Strengths Revenue We have a number of key strengths which position us well Revenue increased 39% reflecting the increase from in the market.
non-interest income following the introduction of quarterly charges on the Investment Dealing Account t 'JYFE 'FF QSJDJOH o XF IBWF B TJNQMF YFE GFF TUSVDUVSF from August 2012, higher platform SIPP charges, 6% t OWFTUNFOU $IPJDF o XF IBWF POF PG UIF CSPBEFTU SBOHFT growth in customer account numbers and a 10% of investments in the platform market.
Net interest income, which now accounts for only 27% of revenue, remained flat at t 2VBMJUZ PG 4FSWJDF o XF IBWF XPO B OVNCFS PG TFSWJDF 2.6m despite an increase in average customer deposits level awards during the year.
reflecting the reduced deposit rates paid by banks.
"t ""MMJBODF 5SVTU o XF IBWF UIF CBDLJOH PG B TUSPOH QBSFOU independent of banks and life company product providers."
Expenses t 3FUBJM %JTUSJCVUJPO 3FWJFX o XF BMSFBEZ PGGFS Expenses remained broadly flat compared to the transparent pricing.
prior period despite the increased cost of regulatory compliance.
Savings achieved during the year were Strategy reinvested to ensure that business operations were scalable for future growth.
t 5IF LFZ ESJWFST GPS UIF CVTJOFTT BSF DVTUPNFS BDDPVOU numbers and trading volumes, our strategy is to grow Net assets both over the coming years by a continued focus on our customer proposition.
During the year Alliance Trust invested 2m in ATS.
t 5P DPOUJOVF UP BVUPNBUF BOE TJNQMJGZ UIF CVTJOFTT UP improve efficiencies.
$POUJOVJOH PQFSBUJPOT bN bN t 5P FOIBODF PVS OUFSNFEJBSZ QSPQPTJUJPO UP QPTJUJPO Revenue 9.6 6.9 ourselves as the leading secondary platform in the market.
Expenses 10.0 9.2 0QFSBUJOH MPTT Outlook Net assets 18.8 17.1 The Platform business is well placed to exploit emerging market opportunities to grow the business, resulting in the $PSF 5JFS 3BUJP delivery of increasing profits and value to shareholders.
5PUBM $BQJUBM 3BUJP Excluding the revenue and expenses relating to the SSAS business, which was sold during the year, and the Full SIPP business which was sold shortly after the year end.
