Sustainability Putting health and safety first, being environmentally responsible and supporting our communities.
With operations around the world, we have a range of stakeholders.
We engage regularly, openly and transparently with them to understand our impacts, improve the quality of life of the communities we interact with and to enhance our licence to operate.
Our BHP Billiton Charter value of Sustainability reflects our We also work with the communities in which we operate priority to ensure that all our people return home safe and to support programs focused on significant community health well at the end of every working day.
Effective health and and safety issues such as malaria, HIV AIDS and road safety safety performance is critical, and we believe everyone has that may also affect our people and their dependants.
a role in ensuring the care of their colleagues and in taking Managing our use of resources the appropriate steps to prevent workplace-related injuries We continue to improve our understanding of the sources, and illnesses.
Operating sustainably underpins everything scope and extent of our resource use, environmental emissions we do.
We work to improve energy efficiency, reduce pollution, and impacts.
Our overarching goal for environmental management improve natural resource management, enhance biodiversity is to avoid or, where this is not possible, minimise our impacts and improve the quality of life of people in our surrounding while contributing to lasting environmental benefits across communities.
We believe we are successful when we provide the regions where we operate.
lasting social and economic benefits while minimising our impact on the environment.
As a global organisation, we seek to understand the risks and opportunities related to climate change and how these affect Keeping our people safe and healthy our operations.
We take an active role in climate change policy The safety and health of our people and that of the broader development in the key regions where we operate and market communities in which we operate is central to the success our products.
We have developed six principles that outline of our business.
Regardless of where our people are located, what we believe climate change policies should deliver to the business in which they operate or the type of work they best tackle carbon emissions reduction see Sustainability undertake, we seek to create an environment that is safe Report 2012 page 19. and free from occupational illness.
We are continually working to reduce our greenhouse gas GHG The FY2012 total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance emissions and improve energy management across our operations.
of 4.7 per million hours worked improved by six per cent In FY2012, GHG emissions were lower than the FY2006 baseline, compared with FY2011 5.0, and while we have not met our by 16 per cent, exceeding our public target of a six per cent TRIF target of 3.7, it has reduced by 36 per cent since FY2007.
Although our injury rates and statistical measures showed Water is an essential resource for our operations and local a steady improvement, we still sadly had three colleagues communities.
Our operations are focused on managing this who lost their lives while at work.
This requires them to implement tailored We are determined to operate without work-related fatalities.
targets and projects to specifically address the water risks Our target of zero fatalities at our controlled operations pertinent to their operation.
Water risks and impacts experienced emphasises the need for our businesses to remain vigilant and by our operations vary across different regions and sites, with focused on the control of their fatality-related risks.
To this end, some operations facing multiple and conflicting risks including our operations are required to have processes and controls in water scarcity, water excess and water quality issues.
place to identify, assess and mitigate for potentially fatal risks.
Improving our management of land and enhancing biodiversity The acute and immediate nature of serious accidents can make are essential to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner.
them an obvious health and safety focus.
However, the long-term In July 2012, we introduced new biodiversity and conservation disabilities associated with chronic exposure to health risks targets.
The first target focuses on a core business requirement are equally serious.
Health risks faced by our people include to implement management plans that include controls to fatigue and other causes of impaired fitness for work, as well prevent, minimise, rehabilitate and offset impacts to biodiversity as occupational exposure to noise, silica, manganese, diesel and the related benefits derived from ecosystems.
In addition exhaust particulate, fluorides, coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric to this, we have introduced a conservation target, which will acid mist.
Our priority is to control occupational exposures see the Group finance the conservation and ongoing management at their source.
of areas of high biodiversity and ecosystem value that are of national or international conservation significance.
As a result of this conservation target, we will broaden our environmental activities beyond what could be achieved by our operations alone.
20 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 Making a positive contribution to society Community Investment Expenditure by Geographic Region As a large organisation, we believe we have an economic and social responsibility to make a positive contribution to the communities, Australasia 58% South America 29% regions and countries where we operate.
Our long-term success Africa 8% depends on our ability to build mutually beneficial relationships North America 5% and to work in a collaborative and transparent way with business Asia 1% Europe 1% partners, governments, non-government organisations and host communities.
Through meaningful engagement, we improve our understanding of and can work towards addressing potential impacts and concerns about our operations and create Excludes expenditure from foundations and trusts.
opportunities that are aligned with the interests of our stakeholders.
Nationally and regionally, we contribute taxes and royalties to governments that in turn provide infrastructure and services Community Investment Expenditure by Program Category to their constituents.
Additionally, we often develop infrastructure that provides local communities and businesses with benefits such General Infrastructure 25% as airports, roads, community childcare centres and medical clinics.
Community Support capacity building 20% Training and employing local people is important to us.
However, Education and Training 18% Arts 9% we make a broader economic contribution through indirect Health 8% employment, where we focus on building the capacity of local Sports and Recreation 6% businesses to provide us and the surrounding communities with Environment 5% Disaster Relief 5% a diverse range of services and products.
Supporting regional Small Business Development 4% businesses creates long-term financial and non-financial benefits and in doing so enhances our licence to operate.
Excludes expenditure from foundations and trusts.
As part of our community commitment, we voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit, calculated on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit, in community programs.
We strive to make a positive contribution to society and are focused on supporting programs that positively impact on the quality of life of people in our host communities and enhance long-term sustainable community development.
In FY2012, this totalled US$214 million and included a US$65 million contribution to our UK-based charitable company, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities.
Many of our employees make a valuable contribution to their local communities by giving their personal time and expertise to a range of activities.
One of the ways we support the efforts of employees engaged in community activities is through our global Matched Giving Program, whereby the Company matches employee volunteering hours, fundraising and donation efforts.
During FY2012, employee contributions benefited more than 1,400 not-for-profit organisations, which received US$7.7 million from the Group as part of the program.
Our annual Health, Safety, Environment and Community Awards provide us with another way of recognising the contributions made by our employees to the care of their fellow employees, the community and the environment.
