0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.05 0.05 0.19 0.19 0.30 0.30 2.22 2.22 2.43 2.43 2.52 2.52 21.44 21.44 70.78 70.78 3,037 3,905 2,798 4,698 Corporate responsibility At a glance 2012 Highlights $TQMGT TGEQIPKVKQP QH ENCKOU UGTXKEG SWCNKV[ RUQU 14 2QNN EQPHKTOU JKIJ FGITGG QH LQD UCVKUHCEVKQP PUVKVWVKQPCN PXGUVQT UWRRQTV OCKPVCKPGF CPF 5OCNN TGFWEVKQP KP %1 RGT GORNQ[GG Amlins carbon footprint Shareholders by type % Shareholders by type % Greenhouse Gas GHG protocol scope tonnes as at 31st December 2012 as at 31st December 2012 5.35 8,293 7,586 C0 per employee 2011 2 806 644 5.55 C0 per employee 2010 2 3.67 C0 per employee 2011 excluding 2 commuting, waste and water.
3.82 C0 per employee 2010 excluding 2 commuting, waste and water.
2011 2010 A B C D EF G H I J A B C D EF G H I J 1 2 GHG protocol scope 1 GHG protocol scope 3 A Domestic institutions F Foreign brokers A Domestic Institutions F Foreign Brokers GHG protocol scope 2 B Foreign institutions G Hedge funds B Foreign Institutions G Hedge Funds C Domestic brokers H Corporate stakeholders C Domestic Brokers H Corporate Stakeholders D Private stakeholders Investors I unidentified holdings D Private Stakeholders Investors I unidentified holdings E Employees etc.
J Unanalysed holdings below threshold E Employees etc.
J Unanalysed holdings below threshold Source: Orient Capital, based on shareholdings of 10,000 shares or more.
UK charity partners Charity Provision Rationale Macmillan Cancer Support Funds to provide a clinical nurse specialist at Imperial Alignment with employees College Healthcare Trust UK Youth Sponsorship of Art for Youth Exhibition and funding Alignment with employees of vocational training Development of young people The Outward Bound Trust Funding of courses for an inner London school Local community support Development of young people Farleigh Hospice Supporting hospice care in Chelmsford Local community support Amlin UK office location Alignment with employees Lloyds Community Programme Support of Community Action Projects, including Local community support Spitalfields Inner City Farm Development of young people Note: 1.
2010 figures revised reflecting improved data collection 2.
C0 equivalent 2 76 76 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlins core values Dear Shareholder Markets The main thrust of our Vision for Amlins future Amlin operates in the London market, UK 2TQHGUUKQPCN GZEGNNGPEG is to be the global reference point for quality in commercial, Bermudian, Singaporean and PVGITKV[ each of our markets.
This Vision is underpinned certain European continental commercial by a set of core values which all employees, insurance markets.
In 2012, we also started a. GCFGTUJKR wherever based, are expected to consider and new reinsurance business in the United States.
5WRGTKQT RGTHQTOCPEG follow in their engagement with all of Amlins Amlin aims to enhance its reputation by stakeholders, whether external or internal.
It contributing positively to each of the markets 6GCOYQTM CPF is Amlins policy to conduct all aspects of its in which it participates through setting high business in an honest, open and ethical manner.
QEWU QP UWUVCKPCDKNKV[ underwriting, claims service, risk management, Amlins aim is to build our business in a employee and governance standards in line sustainable manner, through the consistent with the Groups Vision of becoming the application of our values in the relationships we reference point for quality in each of enjoy with our clients, employees, shareholders our markets.
Amlin remains one of the largest participants We seek to make a positive contribution to the in Lloyds.
Through setting our own high communities in which we operate and to standards, we aim to ensure that we provide embed integrity and professional excellence in leadership in the market in the areas referred all aspects of our business practices.
We are active participants in Lloyds governance and working groups.
In particular, Yours sincerely in 2012, Simon Beale joined the Council of Lloyds and the Board of the Lloyds Market Association, and Richard Hextall continued to Chair Lloyds Solvency II working group.
In the Netherlands, Amlin is a member of the Dutch Insurance Association Exchange VNAB which accounts for a significant proportion of Charles Philipps commercial premiums in the Netherlands.
1 March 2013 The majority of Amlins Netherlands business is written under the Buersprinciples which codify good conduct requirements for insurers and brokers and Amlin participates in technical sub-groups for the VNAB.
Each of Amlins businesses aligns their operational objectives to the delivery of our Vision in their respective markets.
Insurance brokers The vast majority of Amlins business is sourced from brokers with whom Amlin aims to maintain and develop high quality relationships.
This is achieved through respect for the relationships, integrity and a focus on the underwriting and claims service we provide to both the brokers and insureds.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 77 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 77 Corporate responsibility continued Investors During 2012, Amlin UK became a preferred Among other services, FTI Consulting supports In line with Amlins values, we aim to be insurer in the Aon Trio and Willis 360 panels, the informal feedback received from analysts open, transparent and accessible in our and Amlin Europe achieved a 5 star rating for by providing detailed feedback based on formal communications with investors and analysts, its claims handling from Willis.
These are conducted so that they can make informed judgements before and after results announcements and Employees about the Company.
Amlin benefits from and cover the issues that analysts perceive as Amlins Vision includes being recognised as values the support of a high quality register relevant to Amlin, as well as broader the place to work in the industry.
We expect of long-term institutional investors, as well commentary on market sentiment and trends.
to achieve this through being a responsible as private investors, many of whom are This feedback helps to inform Amlins employer, operating first-class employment former employees.
communications with the stock market and practices, providing excellent development ensures that issues and concerns raised by A programme of regular meetings with major and career prospects, and promoting a culture analysts are addressed.
We also actively seek investors following results announcements which motivates employees and values their feedback from institutional investors, both enables us to maintain a positive dialogue contributions to both our financial performance informally on a direct basis and through formal with our existing investors and take into and the attainment of our Vision, in line with our reviews conducted by our corporate brokers.
account their views and concerns.
Details of our Vision and Values can Feedback is shared with the Board.
to this programme, during 2012 the Chief be found on our website www.
com Executive, Group Finance & Operations in the Governance & Responsibility section.
A substantial proportion of Amlins shares Director and Head of Investor Relations are held by supportive long-term institutional In 2012 we conducted our fourth Group wide variously attended meetings with current investors, as shown in the chart on page 76. employee survey through Ipsos MORI which and prospective investors in the UK, US, again indicated that, relative to the financial Community Scandinavia and Continental Europe.
services sector generally, Amlins employees Amlin believes that there is benefit in We presented Amlins investment proposition have a high degree of job satisfaction and supporting the communities which are relevant at external investor conferences in the UK and alignment with the Groups goals.
The survey to the locations in which it does business, the the US and at Amlin events.
In September 2012 highlighted, however, that there is scope for education and development of young people, Amlin hosted a major presentation for investors further advancing our employee engagement and charities which are relevant for employees.
and analysts titled Strategy for Profitable by improving internal communications and we In 2012, Amlin Groups charitable giving Growth in which the Chief Executive and other are presently focused on identifying means of amounted to 260,234.
In the UK charitable senior colleagues gave a detailed review of achieving a step change in this area.
Further giving is co-ordinated through a Community Amlins strategy and plans for the future details on the results of the employee survey & Charities Panel chaired by a senior development of the business.
The presentation are provided in the People section on page 30. underwriter.
Five main charity partners was webcast to maximise accessibility for all 2012 also saw the inauguration of a Group were supported in 2012. shareholders.
After the presentation there Consultation Forum GCF to provide a Group was a drinks reception at which investors and Details of these partner charities, and the wide forum for management and employees to analysts had an opportunity to meet senior rationale for support, are set out in the table on exchange information, news and views.
It also Amlin underwriters and managers from the previous page.
Outside the UK, community saw increased emphasis on Talent Management around the Group.
This event was attended and charities budgets are managed under the to both increase the Groups long-term potential by more than 70 investors and analysts and direction of local boards.
Amlin Bermuda uses and provide clearer career development was well received.
its $120,000 budget to support local youth, prospects for high potential employees.
Analyst coverage of Amlin is extensive, with education and sport-based organisations as Amlin also seeks to align employee interests by more than 20 equity analysts and several credit well as those in need during difficult times.
The Company analysts producing regular research reports and operates a Share Incentive Plan and a Savings Amlin also supports scholarship programmes commentary on Amlin.
We seek to maintain an Related Share Option Plan and, for senior to support young people.
In the UK Amlin funds open and productive dialogue with analysts, to management, operates shareholding guidelines.
vocational training for ten candidates selected ensure that they understand Amlins business by UK Youth, a partner charity.
In Bermuda At the year end an estimated 2.22% of the model and investment proposition.
As well grants are offered through the Association of Company was owned by Directors and staff, as analyst meetings following the preliminary Bermuda International Companies Education including shares held on their behalf by trustees and interim results, during the year Amlin also Awards.
Amlin Singapore continues to support of the Employee Share Ownership Trust and hosted two dinners for analysts hosted by the the General Insurance Associations Global the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
62% of Group Chief Executive and senior colleagues.
Internship Programme, providing speakers for employees held shares through the SIP at the Our investor relations strategy is supported their Talent Outreach Project.
Excluding the SIP, 43% by advice from our joint brokers Numis and 2011: 43% of staff had outstanding options Additionally, Amlin employees are encouraged Morgan Stanley and by FTI Consulting, our or conditional share awards under one or more to support communities and charities and, Investor Relations advisers.
Following the of the Companys share plans.
appointment of joint brokers Numis and Morgan during 2012, Amlin supported approximately 75 employees involved in such activities with Diversity in the workforce is being taken seriously Stanley towards the end of 2011, we reviewed funding of up to 500 per event.
Notable by Amlin both at the Board level and in Senior and further developed our strategy in 2012 for Management.
Our Talent Management initiatives targeting prospective new institutional investors fundraising efforts by staff included a sponsored abseil down The Shard by our Chief Executive, have due regard to the benefits of diversity.
with particular focus on the US.
78 78 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements which raised over 100,000 for the Outward We seek to identify new opportunities to reduce Bound Trust.
In 2012, Amlin once again or contain energy and resource usage.
In 2012 arranged a sponsored go-karting event which Amlin UK acquired a site for development in raised just over 21,000 for Willow Foundation Chelmsford, and the office will be designed and Richard House Childrens Hospice.
to fully incorporate environmental aspects to reduce the buildings impact on the Environment environment, including energy efficient A core part of Amlins business is the technologies.
underwriting of catastrophe risk, which includes weather-related events.
Efforts to reduce paper and print consumption through increased use of iPads for Board, Our principal risks and uncertainties are listed Committee and management information on page 27 together with associated controls, are also continuing.
The risks and opportunities presented by climate change are evaluated through Amlins Climate Change & Environmental Panel which meets regularly and consists of senior underwriters with the Chief Risk Officer acting as Chairman.
In January 2012 the UK Government published its first comprehensive assessment of the potential risks and opportunities for the UK arising from climate change, and this has been reviewed by the Panel.
Amlins Chief Executive is a member of the Geneva Association and participates in their discussions.
The Associations research objectives, to identify and analyse issues of specific relevance to the insurance industry, assist in consideration of the political, educational and social challenges to be addressed.
Amlin also continues to engage with the Risk Prediction Initiative organised by the Bermuda Institute of Ocean Science, notably in research around forecasting extreme weather events.
Amlin measures its annual carbon footprint, using data from all Group Companies over which financial control is exercised and for which financial results were published.
This data includes employee commuting evaluated through survey, waste recycling and water usage as well as electricity, travel and gas usage.
For 2011 the footprint per employee was 5.35 tonnes 2010: 5.55 tonnes, restated to reflect better data collection or 3.67 tonnes 2010: 3.82 restated if compared with the scope of most FTSE calculations i. e. excluding community, waste and water.
The 2011 data is available in full on our website now.
The 2012 data will be publicly available through the Carbon Disclosure Project and on our website in May.
Since 2007, Amlin has been a signatory to the ClimateWise principles, a joint initiative of the Association of British Insurers, The Prince of Wales Business and the Environment Programme, Lloyds and other insurance market participants.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 79 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 79
