Corporate Social Responsibility Ashmore recognises the importance of corporate social responsibility Within the public equities theme AshmoreEMM believes that good CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, accountability and integrity, corporate governance helps to align the interests of company and believes that these principles are fundamental to the Groups management with those of its shareholders.
The Group continues to monitor developments in all relevant AshmoreEMM seeks to maintain constructive dialogue with company areas of CSR, including environmental management, employees, health management.
AshmoreEMM considers whether companies have and safety, suppliers and the community to ensure that it meets best corporate governance frameworks that are in line with applicable practice and sees CSR as a continually evolving process.
country codes and serve shareholder interests.
Views on corporate governance do not constrain investment decisions, however: often Investment the best investment can be in companies where AshmoreEMM Ashmore believes that its reputation as an ethical, trustworthy anticipate an improvement in corporate governance practices.
In many provider of investment services is essential to its core purpose of jurisdictions, and to the extent consistent with its fiduciary duty to helping its clients to build their financial security.
Ashmore seeks to clients, AshmoreEMM exercised voting rights as a means to signal establish and maintain long-term relationships with its clients and its views to company management.
The Group believes this to be a fundamental predetailed guidelines to guide its voting decision, but will, as requisite for the growth of the business.
appropriate, consider resolutions on a case-by-case basis taking into account all available information.
Ashmores Board of Directors seeks to maintain a strong corporate culture employing high standards of integrity and fair dealing in the In private equity, Ashmores Alternatives investment theme often conduct of the firms activities, compliance with both the letter and the involves its funds taking significant controlling stakes in investee spirit of relevant laws and regulations, and standards of good market companies and in such circumstances it is in a position to positively practice in all jurisdictions where the firms business is carried out.
The engage with the management of these companies.
In many cases Boards aim is to enable Ashmore to demonstrate that the firm is fit and Ashmore believes it to be beneficial to its investors to be pro-active proper to undertake its business, to safeguard the legitimate interests of in promoting Ashmores brand locally by improving the livelihoods Ashmore clients and protect Ashmores reputation.
of the employees in the companies where it has a controlling stake.
Ashmores Investment Committee process ensures a holistic approach Within the Alternatives theme Ashmore does not invest in companies to all investments within its portfolios.
Its experience in managing that manufacture or trade arms and aims to avoid investing in investments within the Emerging Markets has enabled Ashmore companies that do not: to experience first hand the advantages of qualitatively evaluating Respect human rights: environmental, social and governance factors and incorporating them within its portfolios.
There are many potential asset classes Comply with local environmental, ethical or social legislation.
in emerging countries many different risk return profiles which Ashmore also aims to ensure that any investments which it makes Ashmore is able to offer its clients and fund investors in the future.
comply with its own industry standards and best practice, treat its As capital markets grow rapidly in Emerging Markets Ashmore wishes employees fairly, have active community programmes and operate to be a part of that growth, both enabling access to these markets with sensitivity to the environment.
Ashmore has made investments in by developed world pools of capital, but also and increasingly by a number of renewable energy projects in different countries including Emerging Markets pools of capital.
hydro electricity, geothermal energy and sugar based ethanol Ashmore believes that social, ethical and environmental SEE production, which reflects its overall approach to combining ethical criteria tend to be focused primarily on equity investing because investing with sound business practice on behalf of clients.
of the influence which shareholder interests are able to exert on the Ashmores funds and segregated accounts each have a specific management of a particular company.
In May 2011 Ashmore acquired investment mandate which sets out the parameters for investment Ashmore EMM LLC AshmoreEMM a long established US-based which may include requirements to screen for geographic, sector investment management firm focusing entirely on the Emerging and stock specific restrictions.
Stock specific restrictions may include Markets public equity theme.
securities which meet clients own CSR criteria.
AshmoreEMM believes that the way in which companies manage Amongst the initiatives undertaken in South America, Ashmore their relations with stakeholders can have an impact on business has established an Environmental and Social Management System performance.
These stakeholders encompass employees, local ESMS for the management of investments of a new investor fund communities, wider society, governments, supply chains, customers in Colombia within the Alternatives investment theme which has been and the natural environment.
There is a wide range of environmental developed in a form and substance acceptable to the Inter-American and social issues which could be relevant for a company depending Development Bank IDB.
on the industry in which it operates and its specific business profile.
Environmental and social issues can become new sources of risk Within mature markets, ethical investing has often been portrayed or opportunities for companies, and a companys ability to respond as a negative concept, i. e. it involves a decision not to invest in to these issues can therefore act as an early signal of long-term a certain way.
Whilst these concepts are well accepted in mature competitiveness.
To the extent practicable, AshmoreEMM monitors markets Ashmore believes that they are not necessarily conducive the environmental, social and corporate governance performance of to helping emerging economies develop.
In the context of developing the companies in which they invest through ongoing company visits countries Ashmore believes that it is also possible to apply other and other information channels.
Generally, companies disclose concepts such as engagement to the ethical investment debate.
corporate governance practices through corporate policies, stock market listings for example, Brazil has a separate category for companies committed to corporate governance best practice, and market press releases.
They disclose environmental and social practices in annual reports and other reports to investors.
As a global investor, AshmoreEMM recognises that legislation and best practice standards vary among countries and regions, and that they must remain sensitive to these differences.
However, at a minimum, AshmoreEMM expects the companies in which they invest to comply with the national legislation that applies to them.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The majority of Ashmores assets continue to be invested in either An Emerging Markets EM focus: External Debt the majority of which is Sovereign or Local Currencies.
Reflects a desire to give back to the countries that have contributed In the case of external debt investments, the ability to have an to the Companys profitability: influence is generally limited to a decision whether or not to invest, however, at a country level it is believed that Ashmore is able to exert Allows for increased leverage of the EM skills, knowledge, an influence through dialogue with governments and central banks.
expertise and networks of Ashmore to deliver the social goals Engagement with a country, as opposed to disengagement, is akin of the Foundation: to many small pressures every day as opposed to one big stick.
Provides support for a thriving and diverse civil sector, By remaining engaged it is often possible to have a positive influence which is essential to democratic development in transitional and and to have credibility.
emerging nations: Where Emerging Markets are concerned therefore, Ashmore Offers potential bang for philanthropic buck.
believes that in certain circumstances it may be more beneficial to keep investment flowing as well as the influence which accompanies Operating in EM poses challenges, principally: it in order to continue to be able to help a countrys population.
Scale of need versus resources available: In country specific terms, at the extreme, being cut off from capital may allow undemocratic rulers to control their people by attributing Language, distance and cultural issues particularly in carrying blame for economic problems to foreign involvement.
Sanctions may out due diligence and monitoring.
be counter-productive and may reduce the welfare of the population Awareness of these challenges informs the Foundations giving strategy.
Hence Ashmore takes investment and engagement disengagement decisions on a case by case basis relative to the The Ashmore Foundation provides grants to non-profit organisations specific circumstances and investment criteria in the best interests that are closely connected to local communities and that provide of clients.
vital services to disadvantaged groups, particularly young people, in the areas of education, health and livelihoods.
A partnership Details on how, and the extent to which, Ashmore complies with scheme identifies organisations that are accountable, have a strong the principles of the UK Stewardship Code are described separately track record and demonstrable potential impact in addressing pressing on the Ashmore website at: www.
social needs, providing flexible funding potentially over a number of years.
In 2012 the Foundation will also fund the STARS Impact The Ashmore Foundation Awards in Asia as a complement to its approach, awarding much Consistent with the Groups commitment to responsible corporate needed unrestricted funding to and shining a light on exceptional citizenship, the Ashmore Foundation was created in 2008 and is examples of innovative frontline Non Government Organisations funded by personal financial contributions from employees of the NGOs delivering tangible outcomes for disadvantaged children.
The Foundation reflects Ashmores overall philosophy that we can and should make a positive difference in communities in Priorities for the Ashmore Foundation are currently: which Ashmore operates, in countries which contribute to Ashmores Supporting NGOs with the potential to achieve tangible social income and profitability.
The Foundation therefore seeks to provide outcomes to improve the education, health and livelihoods financial grants to worthwhile causes within the Emerging Markets prospects of disadvantaged communities, particularly young in order to enhance human welfare, opportunities and capabilities, people, in the Emerging Markets: particularly for those that are vulnerable and at the lower end of the socio-economic spectrum.
10 priority locations, where Ashmore has a presence and or invests and where there exist pressing social needs: The Foundations grant-making policy is wide-ranging but has a particular focus on education and healthcare, the former in particular A small one to three portfolio of sourced, effective non-profit being seen as the best way to help the long-term self-development partners in each priority country, supported over a number of years of Emerging Markets countries.
The Foundation is also interested to achieve social goals: in supporting sustainable livelihoods and social enterprise as a Support for the STARS Foundations Asia Impact Awards: method of reducing poverty in a manner that empowers people to help themselves.
Supplementary small grants scheme for wider, eligible charities.
Despite strong economic growth in many Emerging Market Ashmore Foundation grantees have the opportunity to showcase their work at Ashmores offices.
Ashmore provides matched countries, inequality creates ongoing challenges and many of the most vulnerable groups are excluded from opportunities afforded by wider funding of up to 2,000 per employee per year for donations to the national developments.
The Ashmore Foundation works to address Foundation, whilst the Foundation provides matching of up to 500 disadvantage in the Emerging Markets by enhancing the capabilities per employee per year for donations to Foundation grantees.
Ashmore and resources of underprivileged communities.
For Ashmore, the employees are increasingly involved in additional activities such as Foundation signals to its investors, clients, employees and the general in-country mentoring, as well as fundraising for Ashmore Foundation public a philosophy of giving back to the countries and communities grantees, through events such as the 3 Peaks Challenge in May 2012. that contribute to the Companys success.
The Ashmore Foundation The board of trustees of the Ashmore Foundation are responsible provides for Ashmore to demonstrate its commitment to the local for ensuring strategic oversight, including financial oversight and risk communities in which the business operates and provides an management, to ensure that it is solvent and performing in its delivery opportunity for employee engagement in a rewarding programme of public benefit.
Ashmore trustees six bring skills including general of philanthropic work, as well as the much-coveted opportunity for management, financial and investment management, knowledge grantees to connect with Ashmores talent, network and brand.
of the markets in which the Foundation operates as well as experience of fundraising and governance for charities.
Legal and specific grant-making expertise is provided through an external trustee.
36 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The management of the Foundation is delegated to one member Health and Safety of staff with experience in management of charities working The Group has in place a global health and safety policy which can in international development and human rights, fundraising be accessed by all staff via an internal database.
The aim of this policy and communications.
is to provide both staff and visitors with a safe and healthy working environment.
The Group is committed to adhering to the high The Ashmore Foundation has assets of approximately 7.5 million, standards of health and safety set out by its policies and procedures and has committed grants totalling 1,228,830 for Emerging Markets and to providing training as necessary.
The Ashmore Foundation is a member of the Association of Environment Charitable Foundations.
As an investment manager, Ashmore has a limited direct impact upon the environment and there are few environmental risks associated Regular updates on the activities of the Foundation are published with the Groups activities.
Ashmore moved into its premises at on the Ashmore Foundation section of our website at 61 Aldwych, London in May 2008 and occupies a single floor of www.
approximately 19,000 square feet in a nine storey multi-tenanted building.
Water and gas supplied into the building are metered Employees centrally by the building management and costs apportioned to At year end Ashmore employed 257 people in 11 countries each tenant pro-rata according to floor occupancy.
Ashmores people have always been its most important asset, at the heart of everything it does.
Ashmore has many talented As part of its ongoing commitment to the environment, Ashmore people and it remains a priority to develop, manage and retain this throughout its operations has adopted policies and programmes to talent in order to deliver the potential of the organisation.
Ashmore promote energy conservation and the avoidance of waste through a wants to be an employer which the most talented people aspire to number of initiatives, such as the recycling of paper, glass and other join wherever it operates.
waste and the use of green energy.
Electricity usage is separately monitored by floor with renewable energy accounting for a minimum Ashmore seeks to ensure that its workforce reflects, as far as of 10 per cent of supply.
Energy-efficient lighting is installed in the practicable, the diversity of the many communities in which it is building with sensors which turn lights off when no movement is located.
Ashmore also recognises the diverse needs of its employees detected.
The building has received an Energy Performance Certificate in managing the responsibilities of their work and personal lives, and with an Asset Rating of 98.
Utilities are not monitored by the building believes that achieving an effective balance in these areas is beneficial management in terms of carbon emissions as no accurate data is to both the Company and the individual.
available on the consumptive quality of each item.
The registration Ashmore encourages employees to act ethically and to clearly uphold and reporting obligations under the Carbon Reduction Commitment the standards of practice which its clients have come to expect.
It also CRC Energy Efficient Scheme do not apply to the Company.
means ensuring that its employees understand the strategic aims and Ashmore endeavours to make maximum use of available technology objectives of the Group and are clear about their role in achieving them.
such as video conferencing: however, its business model as an The Group recognises that the involvement of its employees is key investor in Emerging Markets inevitably requires that its investment to the future success of the business and adopts a practice of keeping professionals and other members of staff travel frequently to these employees informed on significant matters affecting them, via email countries to assess and monitor opportunities.
and in meetings arranged for the purpose.
The Group has consistently Ashmore provides obsolete computers to Computer Aid International operated a remuneration strategy that recognises both corporate and Computer Aid, a UK registered charity that aims to reduce poverty individual performance.
through practical ICT solutions, and has in place recycling programmes The Group is also committed to following good practice in for waste paper, photocopier toners and other disposable materials.
employment matters, recognising the part this plays in attracting and Ashmore has published a separate corporate responsibility report retaining staff.
The Group promotes the importance of high ethical which can be found on its website at www.
standards to all employees and staff have the opportunity to voice any concerns they may have, either direct with management or on By order of the Board a confidential basis via the whistle-blowing process.
Michael Perman Equal opportunities Company Secretary The Group is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated 10 September 2012 fairly and with dignity and respect.
This commitment is reflected in the Staff Handbook that all employees receive on joining.
The policies and practices in place within the Group to deter acts of harassment and discrimination are regularly monitored.
It is the Groups policy that no employee shall be treated less favourably on the grounds of their age, sex, sexual orientation, race, religion, nationality or marital status or on the grounds of disability.
This policy applies, without limitation, to promotion, training, placement, transfer, dismissal, remuneration, grievance and disciplinary procedures and decisions.
This policy also applies to persons from outside the workplace and the treatment of contract workers.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
