64 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 We believe that collaboration with international partners and our Our customers At Aviva we recognise that we carry a huge responsibility.
Were peers is vital to progress the issues of business and society today.
This year we have helped to develop the UN Principles for the people our customers turn to for the big things in life: planning retirement, securing investments, an accident, an illness, Sustainable Insurance and co-sponsored a publication on the rights of children working and or living on the street.
Our senior even a death in the family.
Theyre often unsure of what to do, confused, stressed, even frightened about what the future might leaders continue to be represented on industry and global forums.
We have advanced our work with the Chief Risk Officer CRO hold.
At Aviva we pride ourselves on doing all that we can to help, both in the services we offer, and in the way in which we Forum, represented by John Lister, chief risk and capital officer, raising awareness within the industry of sustainability challenges offer them.
We need to give them every bit of support and reassurance that we can.
We can act quickly and decisively when and reputational risks related to cluster munitions and oil sands.
Following the Davies review, chief marketing and the situation demands it or we can allow our customers time and space if thats what they prefer.
Either way, we respond with communications officer, Amanda Mackenzie has continued to engage in the debate on women on Boards.
In December she sensitivity and empathy, and we know that just a friendly word can mean a lot.
They may seem like little things, but we believe took part in a round table discussion in Brussels with Commissioner Reading and MEPs.
Our Chairman John McFarlane theyre little things that can make a big difference.
is part of the City UK advisory board which seeks to increase trust Customer research in financial services.
We have senior level representation at the As the leading insurer in the UK with a significant international CBI with our Chairman sitting on the Presidents Committee and market presence we are actively involved in the issues facing the CEO of Aviva Investors on the Infrastructure Committee.
We engage in broad ranging research and also pleased to have been able to support the Prime Ministers discussion topics with consumers, our industry bodies, the Dementia Challenge Champion Group during the year.
Financial Services Authority FSA and governmental stakeholders.
As a long-term business, we help Governments tackle some This year we have published reports into three main areas, family of their key issues fiscal, demographic, the savings gap, and finances, real retirement, and the pensions gap.
In addition to this infrastructure.
We have continued to engage closely with we have led discussion and published research on behavioural governments this year, sharing our insight as both the owner and economics, the open market option and workplace savings.
investor of capital, giving a useful double perspective to aid their We continue to work to understand the perceptions and needs public policy development.
Specifically we have responded to: in our markets.
The House of Lords EU Select Committee B inquiry on Once again we have conducted our wide-ranging Aviva Women on Boards Customer Attitudes survey now running for over nine years, in The Environmental Audit Committee Inquiry into the 25 countries, asking more than 220,000 people what they think outcomes of the Rio 20 Earth Summit about risk, savings, retirement, financial advice and other The Business, Innovation and Skills Select Committee inquiry important issues.
By listening carefully to what consumers tell us, into Corporate Long-termism and the equity markets and responding quickly and effectively to meet their needs we The European Commissions Rio outcomes consultation can build better, more trusting, relationships with customers.
The Ensuring Sustainable Development Globally: EU Follow-Up latest results show that consumers remain cautious about the to Rio 20 general economic situation and are nervous about taking high We continue to engage with policy makers on major issues facing levels of risk, for example: society such as the ageing society and corporate sustainability in 43% of people think that the general economic situation in Westminster and Brussels.
their country will get worse in the next 12 months In addition to these consultations we have engaged with MPs 26% of people globally are relying on their savings to live on the Street to School programme with our UK partner Railway day by day Children to raise awareness of children at risk on our streets in the 28% agree that they have enough savings investments to UK and have attended several meetings with Education Ministers cope with the unexpected to support their public policy outreach.
In February we co- 57% state that they are worried that they won't have launched research in the House of Commons on the effectiveness enough money when they retire to provide an adequate of Railway Childrens REACH model.
standard of living 25% have not considered or do not know how much Trust and transparency monthly income they will need to get by survive in Building and maintaining trust in Aviva by our customers, our retirement business partners, suppliers, shareholders and employees, is of prime importance within a sector that sees some of the lowest levels of trust in society.
We know trust is partly determined by the social purpose that the organisation demonstrates through the communication of its brand and the way it runs its business.
People want a relationship with an organisation that they trust will do what they say they will.
Thats why providing peace of mind and the much needed support during the most difficult and challenging times in our customers lives is important to us.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 65 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 We also take time to listen to our own customers through our Net Financial crime Aviva has a zero-tolerance approach to financial crime including Promoter Score NPS survey, our leading, group-wide measure of customer advocacy, measured and benchmarked twice a year.
bribery and corruption, fraud, money laundering and sanctions violations.
We require our global businesses to comply with the This survey drives annual action planning, ensuring we act on what we learn, as well as being a constituent of our executive Financial Crime Standard.
This Standard sets out mandatory requirements to ensure businesses implement and maintain riskdirectors annual remuneration.
We followed up our 2011 Mind the Gap report with research based, comprehensive financial crime prevention programmes.
The Standard and financial crime prevention programmes are that shows consumers appear to be in denial over retirement planning with UK and US the most likely to not know how much reviewed and updated consistent with legal and regulatory developments.
Every instance of financial crime, both internal and or have not considered how much income they will need in retirement.
We also found that India, China and Singapore have external fraud, is recorded and investigated independently.
We encourage our employees to raise any concerns they the highest proportion of consumers wanting to continue working beyond retirement whilst France, UK and Italy have the might have through their managers or Right Call an Aviva-wide malpractice reporting service.
Right Call enables all employees to lowest proportion wanting to work beyond retirement age.
We understand the implications for our business and industry and report any suspicions or concerns in a confidential manner for independent investigation.
During 2012, 63 incidents 2011: 69 continue to engage with governments and consumer societies to improve uptake of savings.
Indeed in Spain, The Experts Forum of were recorded across the Group, 24 internal, 17 external and 22 after further investigation were not considered as financial fraud.
the Aviva Savings and Pensions Institute has recommended that the Government introduce reforms in taxation on long-term All cases were referred for independent investigation with 52 reaching conclusion and 11 cases currently remaining under savings and pensions products to encourage people to save for their retirement.
Further, our call to action for governments investigation.
following our research is to: Fair pay Engage people by providing annual statements to all citizens We reported last year that we were to pay all of our employees in showing a forecast of pension retirement income from all the UK a living wage nationally from April 2012.
We have now sources, all in one place implemented this change to incorporate the annual Living Wage Empower people with an interactive tool such as a pension increases.
We have also become an advisory council member of calculator demonstrating how saving more earlier in life can the Living Wage Foundation and were pleased to support the improve their retirement income Foundation in the delivery of Living Wage week this year.
We continue to work with our suppliers to encourage their national Our Family finances report shows the typical UK family could Living Wage status.
afford to save an extra 53 a month however, saving is not top of families priority lists.
While most families admit they could Responsible investment put something extra aside, their savings experience tends to As an insurer we have a fiduciary responsibility to look after our be more as and when rather than a conscious part of customers money.
We seek to do that in a responsible and their regular financial planning.
ethical manner to the benefit of the customer and society as a Please see http: www.
In April 2012 we revised our investment approach to implement environmental, social and governance ESG Business ethics considerations into our investment decisions.
This refreshed We aspire to the highest standards of conduct and set out our strategy is ongoing: by the end of 2012 33% of funds under principles in our business ethics code.
This stipulates fairness, management are covered by this approach.
We plan to complete honesty and transparency in all we do.
The Code is one of the the roll out to all funds by year end 2013. tools we have to remind all employees of the behaviour expected Aviva maintains a list of companies that we do not invest in which in turn drives the culture at Aviva.
Employees in all due to ethical reasons.
During 2012 we delivered a project to countries in which we operate are required to uphold the laws divest from holding organisations involved in cluster munitions of the host country and to conduct themselves according to the and anti-personnel mine manufacture.
We have held such a business ethics code.
Everyone at Aviva has a part to play in policy since 2008 and have now extended this policy to all upholding our standards and we raise awareness of these policyholder funds.
responsibilities through our induction programmes.
The Code is We believe well-governed companies operating responsibly made available to all employees who are required to read and and sustainably should have the mechanisms in place to support sign it on an annual basis.
In Aviva France all employees agree to their long-term growth and shareholder value.
With this in mind, adhere to the Code in their employment contract and take part in we promote transparent and effective governance and annual training.
engagement with the companies in which we invest.
Our ESG We aim for a sign-off of 100% of employees.
This year we voting policy is used to engage with companies regarding, have not met our target, and the achieved outcome is lower than environment, climate change, health and safety, supply chain we aim for at 88%.
The corporate responsibility committee labour standards, human rights and bribery and corruption issues.
recognise that this is not good enough and we will focus on Our voting covers over 1,800 companies in the MSCI universe.
This year we saw an increase from against to abstain in our In addition to our business ethics code, Aviva has a code of voting trends suggesting an improvement in companies ESG ethics for senior management as required by section 406 of the reporting.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the rules issued by the Securities As mentioned earlier in this report, Aviva is very active in and Exchange Commission.
This code can be found on Avivas advocating for better disclosure of ESG issues from listed website: www.
Our work with the Sustainable Stock Exchanges governance code-of-ethics initiative aligns to this with regards to encouraging greater corporate transparency.
