68 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Paying for It launched by Aviva in 2007, continued to take investments.
In the UK we are continuing our work in this area economic citizenship teaching into schools throughout the ensuring that our entire portfolio has energy performance UK using trained Aviva volunteers and now with 3,500 certificates and will meet minimum performance regulation in teachers using our resources 2018.
The Real Estate area of Aviva Investors also works with the Our grassroots sport programmes in the UK reach out to Aviva General Insurances Geographic Information System team hundreds of thousands of children every year to help them so that they can understand the potential flood risk applicable to develop a healthy and active lifestyle properties which they intend to add to the investment portfolio.
In Canada, the Aviva Community Fund gives members of the Aviva France has signed a national partnership with the public and our brokers the opportunity to turn great ideas French Chambers of Commerce to promote an Environment into action to benefit their local communities.
This Management System dedicated to small and medium businesses: innovative use of social media encouraged over 2.8m votes EnVol.
As one of the main partners, we offer a 5% discount on to be cast for various community projects in 2012.
A total of professionals insurance policies when the customer obtains the $1 million will be shared among projects such as a youth EnVol certification.
This rewards them for having assessed their addiction and support program in Glace Bay, Nova Scotia: environmental impact and defined a plan to reduce it.
a secondary school science and nutrition program in The role of insurers in climate change Vancouver, BC: animal rescue programs in Spruce Grove, The insurance industry has a fundamental part to play in societys Alberta and Sprucedale, Ontario: and a new splash pad in responses to climate change.
As a major insurer Aviva has firstCanora, Saskatchewan hand understanding of the impact of extreme weather events on Access to insurance our customers.
On their behalf, we are committed to help To improve insurance access and service for vulnerable people in mitigate the threat of climate change and support everyone in the UK, we have created an internal dementia taskforce.
We society to adapt to changes caused by man-made emissions also now include Alzheimers Society materials in our training already in the atmosphere.
Our industry can also draw on its programme.
To help low-income households, we work with social knowledge of historical weather data to identify patterns of landlords and broker partners to provide tenants with easily change, applying our understanding of risk to map future accessible and affordable home contents insurance.
Less than half temperature scenarios and determine likely impacts.
of low-income households in the UK have contents insurance We believe that climate change must be tackled now.
while a third take out loans to replace items.
This compounds the As extreme weather events become more frequent and more risk of indebtedness.
severe, they become more challenging to insure.
It is in everyones We believe in providing micro-insurance products to extend interest that insurance remains affordable and available so that the value of insurance and the peace of mind that it offers to low people affected by severe weather events can recover quickly income families.
In India we work with the micro-insurance from unavoidable impacts.
Aviva fully supports the ABIs company Bhartiya Samruddhi Finance to give us the technology to discussions with Government on finding a viable solution to keep process product purchases within 24 hours.
Delivery through their insurance affordable and available for those at high risk of vast rural branch network helps us serve our financially excluded flooding, when the Statement of Principles ends in June.
and rural customers better and faster and enables us to provide Regardless of the outcome of these discussions, we firmly believe them world class services at low cost.
that all parties including central and local Government, insurers In Singapore, we have been the official provider of term life and home owners need to play their part in protecting and critical illness cover for the Singapore armed forces since homeowners who are living in fear of flooding.
1983, extending to their role in UN Peacekeeping and We have been able to respond well to the extreme rainfall humanitarian services.
To date we have provided life and illness experienced in the UK in 2012, answering calls to our call centres cover to over 125,000 servicemen and women.
within an average of eight seconds and even being able to go door-to-door where imminent flooding is expected to advise Climate change and environment customers to move valuable and sentimental items upstairs to avoid damage.
Protecting the environment to mitigate against and adapt to manmade climate change are key priorities for Aviva that we believe Industry leadership and participation require action today, not tomorrow.
Following the sale of our We have joined forces with other leading organisations to provide businesses in USA, Sri Lanka and Malaysia we have restated our a collective industry voice and specialist sector-specific influence 2010 baseline and restate it to our 2010 baseline of 132,244 to support the climate change agenda.
We have joined the EU tonnes CO2e.
Our long term reduction target remains at 20% by Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change EU CLG which 2020, from this restated baseline.
Our relative annual target seeks to communicate the support of business for the European reduction is set at 5% to help us achieve the longer-term target.
Union to move to a low carbon society, and to work in We also aim to increase our use of renewable electricity, this year partnership with the institutions of the EU to make this a practical weve increased the amount we purchase to 24% 2011: 7%.
Aviva Investors signed the EU CLGs letter which calls for policy makers to introduce a clear carbon price framework in a Aviva plc operational carbon footprint covering 100% stable and timely manner.
of employees GHG Emissions data from 1 Jan 2012 to We were a founder member of the ClimateWise Principles 31 Dec 2012 and continue to be represented on the management committee.
Tonnes CO2e 2012 2011 During 2012 we were involved in ClimateWise collaborations on Scope 1 23,849 44,471 research into sustainable claims management and understanding Scope 2 75,733 97,988 the roles of different stakeholders in improving the resilience of Scope 3 26,920 22,655 cities to a changing climate in North America.
Aviva has been Absolute CO2 footprint 126,502 165,115 Carbon offsetting 132,827 173,371 represented on the CBI Energy and Climate Change Board since Total net emissions 6,325 8,256 its creation in 2007.
We continue to be represented at a senior Scope 1 operational emissions from owned sources e. g. gas, vehicle fleet as part of product service.
Scope 2 operational emission from non-owned sources e. g. electricity.
Scope 3 business activity emissions from non-owned sources e. g. business travel.
We firmly believe that engaging our employees to raise awareness and address environmental impacts is an essential part As a major international real estate manager, we are conscious of of delivering our environmental strategy.
For the second year the implications that a changing climate can have on our property running 76% of our employees agree that we make business Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 69 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 choices that support the environment.
Following the launch of Affiliations and engagements We work closely with leading organisations to share good our insurance cover for the environmental goods and services section, for UK ClimateWeek 2012 we conducted a survey to practice, identify emerging issues and improve our performance.
Here are just a few of the organisations we collaborated with understand intermediary attitudes to environmental management within their own business and whether they believed focusing on in 2012: Consortium for Street Children it further would win business for them.
20% of brokers advised they had seen an increased interest in the demand for products in CRO Forum ClimateWise support of the environmental goods and services sector.
69% thought that they could take more advantage of the interest seen UNEP Finance Initiative CBI Energy and Climate Change Board in this area.
HRH Prince of Wales Accounting for Sustainability Investing in low carbon energy infrastructure Institute of Business Ethics In a challenging macro-economic environment institutional UN Global Compact LEAD investors are looking for diversified sources of stable income.
UN Human Rights Commissioner In August 2012, Aviva Investors acquired a residential solar project UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance totalling 23 megawatts of capacity making it the largest UN Principles for Responsible Investment investment of this kind in the UK and the companys first of this UN Women Empowerment Principles type.
The assets are spread across 7,000 homes.
The assets are ORC Global Diversity Forum: and held in the Realm Infrastructure Funds, which are mainly targeted Business in the Community at UK pension fund investors and is in keeping with the strategy of producing long term profitability with a reduced appetite for risk.
Aviva Investors also acquired the Almatret wind farm near Lerida in Spain in the same month.
Environmental Regulations Aviva is compliant with the UK Governments Carbon Reduction Energy Efficiency scheme.
In 2012, we purchased and surrendered 91,590 carbon allowances at a cost of nearly 1.1 million.
Going forward we are preparing for the UK Governments Mandatory Carbon Reporting which applies to companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
We will be reporting in line with this in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
