Performance: Social responsibility Feel the Future Bank of Georgia conducts employee satisfaction surveys Bank of Georgias slogan Feel to improve working environment, effectively address any grievances and to improve customer focus through the Future reflects our role in employee feedback In 2012, the Bank provided 12,506 training hours to the building a better future for our Banks 2,240 employees and 10% of employees received promotion during the year customers, employees and Bank of Georgia promotes gender diversity across the communities across the country.
Group and we are proud that 62% of the Banks employees are female Creating sustainable value for Community engagement our shareholders is interlinked As the largest financial institution and one of the top employers in the country, the Bank seeks to play an active with the well-being and role in social issues present in the communities the bank operates in.
prosperity of our stakeholders Bank of Georgia partnered up with IFC to provide credit to SMEs owned by women and thus support womens As the leading financial institution in the country with over inclusion in business one million customers, we are uniquely placed to make a Bank of Georgia partnered up with EBRD to provide lasting impact on the communities we operate in and to financing the SME sector with energo-credit, which promote sustainable growth in the economy.
means financing enterprises to upgrade their old, inefficient machinery to decrease their energy use and Customers switch to energy efficient low polluting technologies We put our existing customers at heart of our business With more than half of the countrys population employed operations maintaining excellent customer service while in the agricultural sector, Bank of Georgia is committed at the same time developing innovative products and to provide cheap financing to Georgian farmers.
To underpenetrated services that meet customers evolving this end, the Bank launched an agro-credit facility with needs.
However, as an emerging market economy, the favourable terms in 2012.
The facility is complemented Georgian banking sector still remains underpenetrated with the Banks new initiative in agriculture insurance, creating challenges to make banking products accessible which in Georgia is in its early stage of development in an efficient and responsible manner to existing and and will allow Georgian farmers to have a better access potential customers.
The Express Banking service from Bank of Georgia, which is Sponsorships based on a concept of transactional, low cost banking through In 2012, Bank of Georgia continued sponsoring Basketball electronic channels see page 39 aims to make banking club Tbilisi Dynamo and TEDx a non-profit organisation products accessible to a larger part of the population.
which holds conferences devoted to sharing ideas.
Employees Charity Bank of Georgias continued success depends on its Bank of Georgia has been actively making charitable employees, who build valuable relationships with our donations in 2012, donating money to various reputable clients.
As the leading financial institution in Georgia, charity organisations in Georgia including The First Step we are committed to recruiting and retaining the best talent Foundation that supports children with special needs, in the country through attractive salary packages, a clear Oncology Centre, Catharsis support for elderly, SOS bonus structure and training programmes aimed at Childrens Village, etc.
66 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Bank contributed a total of GEL 1.4 million to charities and sponsorships Environmental Responsibility With regard to our customers and clients, the Group Through Bank of Georgia Future Foundation, the Bank regards compliance with applicable environmental, health has partnered up with the Caucasus Nature Fund and and safety and labour regulations and the use of sound the Georgian Agency of Protected Areas to support one environmental, health and safety, and labour practices as of the most treasured national parks in Georgia Borjomiimportant factors in demonstrating effective corporate Kharagauli National Park.
The Bank has been supporting governance.
The Board has adopted an Environmental and the fund for the fourth year in a row.
Social Policy, which describes the Groups commitment to sustainable finance as an integral component of responsible Moreover, Bank of Georgia recognises that its operations corporate governance and implementation of environmental can have direct and indirect impacts on the environment and social risk management procedures in connection and the community in which it operates.
The Banks with its commercial activities including without limitation objective is to responsibly manage the environmental commercial lending.
The Environmental and Social and social risks associated with its operations in order to Responsibility Policy is available on the Companys minimise impacts on the environment and its stakeholders.
The Group is committed to conducting its business in In order to ensure that the Bank of Georgia and its an environmentally, socially responsible and sustainable customers operate in an environmentally and socially manner in order to reduce the environmental impact responsible manner, the Management Board of the Bank of its operations while at the same time improving social has adopted Environmental and Social Responsibility Policy performance in order to enhance long-term returns to its and Risk Management Procedures, which are in line with shareholders.
In maintaining international best practice in the requirements of the Banks DFI partners, such as IFC, environmental and social risk management, the Group is EBRD, ADB, etc.
committed to ensuring that its clients and customers are also fulfilling their environmental and social responsibilities.
Agency of Protected Areas Borjomi Kharagauli National Park is one of the largest National Parks in Europe covering more than 76,000 hectares of native forest.
Bank of Georgia finances maintenance costs of the park thus contributing to preservation of the diversity of wild nature areas of Georgia.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 67
