The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information People employee share plans.
Further details of our approach to remuneration Throughout the challenges faced by Barclays during 2012 our colleagues have showed tremendous resilience and resolve in the face are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 72-103. of external criticism and uncertainty.
Colleagues continue to rise to these challenges and embrace ways of working that are aligned to the We have established a global Diversity and Inclusion strategy to create new values and behaviours.
They welcome the Transform Programme an environment that ensures we treat people fairly and understand how and the chance to become the Go-To bank.
to let people from all backgrounds feel able to contribute to Barclays.
We recognise that it is our colleagues who will implement our plans We have clear objectives to: increase representation and decrease turnover of under-represented populations at senior levels: maintain todeliver the Go-To bank.
By living our values every day they will make Barclays the bank we want it to be, a place where people want to join a positive climate of inclusion and engagement: and increase external recognition as a diverse and inclusive organisation.
We have a wide range and a place where colleagues want to stay and develop their careers.
of initiatives in place to achieve our mission, including training for all employees, workplace and working practice adjustments for persons Successful employment relationships are built on mutual benefit and with disabilities, and identification of high potential women with relevant trust, and a more engaged workforce is always a more productive one.
programmes to support their career development and retention.
We build trust through regular two-way communications, both informally, and through our Employee Opinion Surveys.
These help us understand our colleagues views and concerns, and enable us to take We are proud that many of our initiatives have received external recognition around the world.
Examples of this external recognition include being their views into account as we deliver the Go-To ambition.
ranked second in the UK Business Disability Forum benchmark and our Cultural Diversity Network being awarded Network of the Year by Race for The 2012 Employee Opinion Survey was completed by 84% of our Opportunity.
We recognise there is more to be accomplished and will focus colleagues in advance of the announcement of the penalties in respect on the following priorities for 2013 and beyond: of LIBOR and EURIBOR rates.
For the first time, we asked the same core set of questions across all our divisions, which will allow us to measure Full scale deployment of our Unconscious Bias programme to our our progress going forward.
These include whether our people feel global Managing Director population: proud to work for Barclays, would recommend it as a place to work, Continued momentum towards our 2015 Board-level female and whether they believe in the goals and objectives of the company.
representation target of 25%: and Collectively, these questions allow us to understand the degree to Identifying opportunities to make lives easier for diverse customers, which employees are engaged with the company.
The overall score following the success of initiatives such as Talking ATMs in 2012. forengagement was 73%, which is broadly in-line with the global benchmarks.
The continuation of regular and open dialogue between We continue to provide a range of opportunities and tailored training the Group Chief Executive and the Executive Committee and colleagues, programmes for graduates recruiting a total of 1,100 graduates during in events such as regular global Town Halls, will be important in 2012 onto our global graduate programmes.
We also continued to play ensuring colleagues are well informed, understand the banks objectives an active role in addressing societal challenges around employability in and remain engaged and connected with the future of Barclays.
For instance, our innovative Apprenticeship Programme, which seeks to contribute to addressing the problem of youth unemployment Our Partnership approach to industrial relations where we have in the UK, has recently recruited its 500th apprentice.
We are committed maintained regular and constructive dialogue with more than 30 to recruiting a total of 1,000 apprentices by the middle of 2013.
The Big unions, works councils and staff associations across the globe, plays Barclays Apprentice Conversation was an event that provided our a key role in building and maintaining trust with our colleagues.
Where apprentices the opportunity to meet and speak with senior leaders, we have had to restructure our business and this has resulted in job including the Executive Committee and Antony Jenkins.
Providing this losses, we have worked closely with employee representatives to avoid two-way exchange of ideas and views will help us tailor our programme compulsory redundancies where possible, ensuring colleagues leaving for future years and provided a valuable insight into the drivers and Barclays have been supported and treated with respect.
motivations of an important talent pool and customer base.
Barclays colleagues remain focused on serving customers and clients FTE by region as reflected in our 2012 business results.
This focus is supported by a distinctive culture underpinned by a common purpose, and clearly 2012 2011 2010 articulated set of values and behaviours.
We believe that leadership UK 55,300 56,100 58,100 behaviour drives culture, which in turn impacts all aspects of Africa & Middle East 45,200 47,900 50,400 organisational performance.
A group of Barclays Values Leaders from all Continental Europe 11,100 11,600 13,600 businesses and levels will deliver Barclays Purpose and Values training to Americas 11,100 10,900 11,500 all employees.
In addition a group-wide, standard and assured induction Asia Pacific 16,500 14,600 13,900 will be designed and implemented to ensure our colleagues will Total 139,200 141,100 147,500 understand and be engaged in who we are and how we work together.
We will assess business unit and individual performance against our Global employment statistics % goals through a balanced scorecard for the bank.
This will measure 51.5 not just what we deliver, but also how we do business, our impact as 2012 % of female employees 52.1 2011 a company, and adherence to our values.
% of senior executives 11.2 who are female 10.5 Our People processes, specifically those linked to Performance % of directors 22.0 Management, Reward, Talent including promotions and mobility, who are female 21.5 Leadership and Learning are subject to increased focus and, where 8.3 % of employees appropriate, standardisation, as we devise clear strategies for each to working part-time 8.4 support the Transform Programme and strongly reflect the Barclays Values 14.4 and Behaviours.
We will continue to base variable remuneration on Turnover rate 17.4 individuals performance ratings and the performance of their business.
8.6 We will also continue to encourage our people to be involved and to Resignation rate 10.0 share in our success by regularly inviting them to participate in our all barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 71
