Business review Corporate social responsibility As an insurer we can exert a strong beneficial inuence by promoting eective risk management.
We see a clear correlation between forward-looking businesses that have such controls in place and businesses that are good corporate citizens.
In continuing to build Beazley as a premier risk-taking business, Corporate social responsibility is a broad term, addressed at we take our corporate, social and environmental responsibility Beazley through a variety of entities: seriously.
We constantly consider the ethical implications of how we operate and put policies and procedures in place to CSR segment Where Beazley addresses these topics sustain our commitment.
Environment responsible business committee sustainability Intrinsic to our culture is an ethical approach to business Community responsible business committee conducted by and towards all our stakeholders.
The values that community and charity form the essence of our brand and our working culture are Marketplace, inuence responsible business committee professionalism, integrity, effectiveness and dynamism.
Our marketplace code of ethics comprises the staff handbook, the handling of Marketplace, ethical service broker belations and treating personal data, whistle blowing, and financial crime policies.
Our customers fairly within compliance conicts of interest policy provides clear guidance to staff on areas such as inducements and handling sensitive data.
Diversity equal opportunity talent management Health and safety beazley shared services During 2012 we undertook a detailed review of our corporate social responsibility strategy, encompassing the full range of The rebranded responsible business committee, headed by our philanthropic, volunteering and environmental activities and Clive Washbourn, will focus on sustainability, community and programmes.
Our aims were to: charity and our inuence in our marketplace.
The other segments will be implemented elsewhere.
increase the value we provide for our beneciaries: expand awareness within Beazley of the ways in which employees can contribute to local communities, as well as to broader philanthropic causes: and measure the impact of our contributions to ensure that we make best use of available resources.
Day of service Beazley employees across all US oces hosted a Day of Service where employees could directly contribute time to helping the communities in which we work.
Nearly 100 employees volunteered their time at a variety of charities focused on the causes of homelessness and hunger.
90 Employees volunteered Beazley 54 Annual report 2012 Business review During 2012 we undertook a detailed review of our corporate social responsibility strategy, encompassing the full range of our philanthropic, volunteering and environmental activities and programmes.
Offices and furniture Environment - sustainability We consolidated two of our Chicago We are both users of the environment and insurers of the ofces into one and opened a impact of extreme weather conditions, so understanding and new oor in our UK ofce, bringing in employees who were minimising our own impact on the earth is important to us as a previously based in a satellite London ofce.
All new ofces company and as individuals.
We seek to reduce not only our were designed to ensure that environmentally friendly own impact on the environment, but also that of our suppliers materials and products are utilised whenever feasible.
These by selecting organisations that adhere to high environmental include reduced lighting and LED technology, kitchen serving standards.
One of our nominated charities is Trees for Cities counter tops made from recycled material, and furniture made www.
org, which aims to inspire people to plant of sustainable materials which can be recycled at the end of and love trees in cities worldwide.
Community and charity Office supplies and printing systems The community element of responsible business has many Buying recycled Forest Stewardship Council products in our UK facets.
It can include funding, sharing of skills, offering gifts in and US ofces saved us 17 tonnes of CO in 2012.
We use 2 kind, and giving local people employment opportunities.
multi-function print devices where possible to reduce energy consumption and storage space.
In 2012, we also upgraded all Beazley supports the Lloyds Community Programme, which our US ofces to environmentally friendly duplex printers.
To provides a framework for Lloyds-based businesses to support further support our environmental initiatives, we use electronic a number of activities in east London, including reading and workows to minimise hardcopy output.
Our partner school is Canon Barnett Primary School.
Many teams within Beazley contribute to their Travel local communities through volunteering days and all employees We use Climatecars, who provide electric and hybrid vehicles, are able to maximise their donations to charity through the as the preferred car transportation company in our UK head payroll giving scheme.
ofce and we have installed a permanent charging point in our basement for them.
Beazley US does not have a company-wide Marketplace car service.
Employees are encouraged to use public transport This is a new focus for Beazley.
The aim is to recognise and for their work commute, which is paid for as part of our enhance the positive inuence our interactions as a business employee benets package.
have on the wider community.
A good example is the quality indicator return premium QUIRP programme run by our We also track our carbon emission reductions from travellers hospitals professional liability team.
Hospitals that make who voluntarily downgrade from a higher cabin class on ights.
measurable improvements in quality and patient safety metrics In 2012, this occurred on 162 transatlantic ights resulting in a are reimbursed a proportion of their premiums.
saving of over eight tonnes of CO. 2 Note: The greenhouse gas GHG emissions reported overleaf Review of 2012 activities are for the year 2011.
This reects the reporting cycle, whereby statistics for 2011 become available in 2012.
Similarly, 2012 Environmental responsibility emissions will be reported in 2013.
Beazley strives to achieve environmental best practices in the management of its global ofces and in the acquisition of its goods and services.
We continue to evaluate the environmentally responsible initiatives of our suppliers, encourage the use of public transport and video conferencing, monitor our carbon foot print and work towards reducing the latter where possible.
In addition to measures we have put in place historically, in 2012 we made the following progress: Beazley Annual report 2012 55 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued GHG report for the UK head office for 2011 emissions Community and charity Beazley engages in a number of charitable and volunteering Beazley submitted case studies to Climatewise detailing the environmental measures taken.
Commercial management activities across all our ofces through employee involvement, direct financial donations and fundraising drives and events.
produced a report which indicated a 6% emissions increase based on Scope 1 and Scope 3 GHG emissions.
This is Each employee can take up to two days per year to participate in charitable and local community initiatives.
comparable with reported emissions for 2009.
The increase is attributable to fugitive losses of refrigerant from air conditioning Our US charity committee, chaired by Bryan Falchuk, supported systems which were replaced following the report.
a number of activities and causes with a budget of $60,000.
Ninety-two employee requests for donations were met, totalling GHG report for US for 2011 emissions In the US we report emissions for our three main ofces in $26,000.
Additional support went to Feeding America, the American Red Cross and several cancer-related causes Farmington, Boston and New York.
In 2011, there was a 4.1% increase in emissions based on Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG including a gala fundraiser Beazley hosted for Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center which raised $35,000.
In emissions compared to similar data for 2010.
This is largely attributable to increased electricity consumption due to a addition to funding the charitable activities of our US staff, every ofce hosted a Day of Service where employees could higher headcount.
directly contribute time to helping local communities.
Nearly 100 employees volunteered their time at a variety of charities GHG reporting for rest of world The emissions reported above account for 70% of Beazley focused on the causes of homelessness and hunger in Boston, Hartford, New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, San employees.
For our ofces located elsewhere, due to the size and nature of these leased premises it is not practical to Francisco and Glendale.
Rwanda Aid Rwanda Aid is one of the three main charities supported by Beazley in UK.
In 2012 we donated 10,000 to the charity in addition to other activities including craft sales.
Employees are also encouraged to volunteer in person.
10,000 Donated in 2012 Beazley 56 Annual report 2012 Business review In the UK, our charity committee is chaired by Jonathan Gray Marketplace, ethical service and in 2012 supported charitable activities with a budget of 50,000.
Employee requests for donations were met, totaling Treating customers fairly 13,000, with support going to charities including Macmillan, The Beazley group the Alzheimers Society and Cancer Research.
Additional approaches all dealings support totalling 30,000, went to three main nominated with customers with regard to: charities: Rwanda Aid, Trees for Cities and Concordia 10,000 general good business practice with strong standards of fair for each charity.
In addition to direct funding, the charity dealing: committee has organised and hosted charitable collections for maintaining positive, continuing commercial relationships homeless shelters, care packages for Support our Soldiers with our policyholders and their brokers and professional and the sale of crafts made in Rwanda.
advisers: and delivering high customer service standards compliant with We also run a payroll-giving scheme in the UK in association applicable regulatory requirements and other relevant with the Charities Aid Foundation.
part, donating 34,015 across various charities.
Beazleys general approach to ensure the fair treatment of We liaise closely with the Lloyds Community Programme LCP customers has always been an intrinsic part of the way we do and encourage staff to get involved in helping pupils in schools business, and continues to be so.
in the Tower Hamlets area, one of the most deprived areas in the country.
Beazley is involved in two schemes on a weekly A Beazley groupwide treating customers fairly TCF policy basis: reading and number partners.
During 2012, we have had and training programme exists to communicate requirements 22 volunteers participating across both these schemes at throughout the group.
Canon Barnett Primary School in Aldgate.
Twenty-four members of staff also participated in a variety of volunteering days, Broker relations coordinated through the LCP.
Strong trust-based relationships with brokers are fundamental to the success of our business and we are constantly looking In addition to the above volunteering we also had 15 members for new ways to improve access to our underwriters for of staff take part in two financial literacy workshops for pupils at brokers, and opportunities to strengthen our existing broker Canon Barnett in conjunction with the LCP.
Beazleys dedicated broker relations team the volunteers in this workshop based on the How the Real focuses on actinging as a customer service contact point, World Works book series, which included a book written by removing any roadblocks and provides relationship children about Lloyds.
All Beazley ofces took part in our Olympic charity events including a torch relay and cake sale.
In November, participants across Beazley raised over $10,000 through the Movember challenge which goes to a range of mens health charities.
No political donations were made by the group in either the current or prior reporting period.
Beazley Annual report 2012 57 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Workplace diversity equal opportunity Health and safety We are an equal opportunities employer, ensuring we offer equal We take the health and wellbeing of staff seriously and are treatment to employees and prospective employees.
We are committed to ensuring all staff receive the best standard of proud of the fact that there are many different personalities benets and enjoy supportive working conditions.
working here and this diversity is the key to our global growth and success.
We treat all employees fairly, with dignity and respect.
Employees are expected to take reasonable care of their own health and safety at work as well as those of others, and to Our aim is to build on our achievements so far by actively co-operate with management to create a safe and healthy attracting and developing people with different experiences, working environment.
All employees, contractors and visitors backgrounds and lifestyles, with different skills and are subject to induction, training and supervision in aspects of perspectives to join and lead our business: a workforce that health and safety and additional training in ergonomics and re mirrors the diversity of our customers and the communities safety awareness is provided.
All health and safety matters are where we work around the world.
We want to build an even communicated via noticeboards, email memos, the intranet and more open and collaborative culture, generating contagious safety representatives.
Management of health and safety is energy and a real sense of creativity.
We do this by supporting both internally and externally audited for compliance against our managers and people, giving them the tools and opportunity best practice.
Quarterly meetings include staff from all levels to network and progress on their career life path whilst who feed back on any issues.
continually building a diverse pipeline through our recruitment activities.
Overall responsibility for the management of health and safety at Beazley rests with the chief operating officer.
Our focus this year and into 2013 is to engage our managers so they become owners and advocates of diversity at Beazley.
We believe that by capturing our managers imagination they will be able to lead and support our initiatives to ensure Beazley remains a diverse and great place to work.
Lloyds community programme As part of the Lloyds Community Programme, Beazley sta are involved in two schemes on a weekly basis: reading and number partners.
During 2012, we have had 22 volunteers participating across both these schemes at Canon Barnett Primary School in Aldgate.
22 Volunteers participating Beazley 58 Annual report 2012 Business review We encourage a work-life balance at Beazley and monitor our employees for signs of stress.
Our benets package along with sickness and stress management policies are based around employee wellbeing.
Beazley employees are provided private medical and eye tests, a subsidy towards gym or health club membership, along with lunch and fruit as part of the core benets.
We also take stress management seriously and provide managers with training in identifying and managing stress.
The services of a condential and impartial Employee Assistance Programme are also available to employees along with quiet contemplation rooms.
We monitor sickness and absenteeism and support our employees with enhanced sick pay, additional holidays and income protection in cases of extended sickness.
