34 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate responsibility Caledonia considers the impact of its business in the Community following areas: Caledonia encourages employees to support local voluntary organisations and charitable causes and provides matched Marketplace sponsorship to their fundraising activities.
This and other As an investment company, we are committed to a long charitable donations made at the companys own initiation term investment strategy and to maintaining effective in the year amounted to 86,000. relationships with those companies in which we invest.
The company also supports the work of the Royal We generally hold a board seat in our signiicant Horticultural Society and contributions to the RHSs investments and use this to maintain a close relationship campaigns to promote gardening, through sponsorship with managements of those companies.
Additionally, of the RHS Chelsea Flower Show Charity Gala Preview, we hold frequent meetings with managements and amounted to 106,000 in the year.
review internal documents, such as management accounts and reports.
Environment We also make considered use of our voting rights.
Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
However, As a consequence of our involved investment style, any measures taken to reduce this impact demonstrate we would expect to vote in line with management the companys commitment to improve the environment recommendations, but are prepared to abstain or vote and can have direct beneits through reductions in costs against recommendations where we consider they for energy and consumables.
A number of measures have are not in the interests of our shareholders.
been and will be taken in this area: O We continue to meet with our shareholders and listen encouragement of the use of electronic communications to any concerns they may have.
to save paper, printing consumables and energy O usage of video-conferencing and telephone conference Workplace calls rather than travelling to meetings Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect O recycling of ofice waste, used paper and other employees from unlawful discrimination, offer them a consumables.
working environment where they have a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance.
These policies assist in ensuring that the company meets applicable health and safety standards and treats disabled employees in accordance with its statutory obligations.
These policies are communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided at the time of joining, with periodic updates thereafter.
In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees to raise concerns either formally or informally, there are formal whistleblowing arrangements in place, which enable members of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business, conidentially and independently of line management.
A formal performance appraisal process, through which employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their achievement against those objectives assessed at the end of the year, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their performance and the ability to develop their potential within the company through additional training where necessary.
Together with team meetings and company-wide brieings, this provides staff with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success of the business.
