Close Brothers Group plc 44 Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate Responsibility Introduction Training and development We are committed to maintaining and promoting a high level of The group remains focused on training and development of all its integrity in all our business activities.
Our business model is employees and is committed to investing in its existing talent.
underpinned by key attributes which include prudence, simplicity, expertise and building and maintaining relationships in order to At the beginning of each financial year, all employees are required create and sustain value.
The group applies these same to agree performance objectives and training needs with line attributes to its wider corporate and social responsibilities managers.
These are used to measure performance in the year ensuring that its principles guide its relationships with customers, end annual performance review.
The reviews also cover the employees, and the communities and environment in which we employees development and training requirements and provide operate.
an opportunity for employees to discuss their career aspirations with their line manager.
The group has continued to focus on corporate responsibility CR throughout the year and has made progress on its Employee benefits strategic CR objectives: All of the groups UK based permanent employees are offered Maintaining good employee engagement and developing pension and life assurance benefits.
In order to involve the talent: employees in the success of the group, a Save as You Earn Treating customers fairly and supporting employee integrity: SAYE scheme is promoted amongst employees and at 31 July Minimising our impact on the environment: and 2012 the group had approximately one third 31 July 2011: one Contributing to the community.
third of its UK based employees participating.
The groups CR activities are coordinated by a group wide CR Health and safety Committee, established in 2010, and chaired by a member of the The group promotes high standards of health and safety at work executive committee.
The Committee has met regularly for all its employees and all divisions have health and safety throughout the year to ensure continuous awareness of the policies.
It is the responsibility of the health and safety groups responsibilities and CR objectives.
It is the responsibility representatives to communicate these to staff.
of each of the divisions to communicate and implement the groups CR objectives.
Treating Customers Fairly and Supporting Employee Integrity Maintaining Good Employee Engagement and The groups business model is built around long-term DevelopingTalent relationships with clients and intermediaries, and we strive to As an organisation that relies on the expertise and commitment operate with the highest standards of integrity with respect to of our people, we remain committed to investing in our lending to and dealing with customers.
We remain committed to employees and developing new talent.
supporting sustainable growth in the UK economy through our products and actively look at ways to support SMEs and develop Equal opportunities and diversity innovative and optimum solutions for all our clients.
The group is committed to providing equal opportunities to its employees and values diversity amongst its workforce.
The Treating customers fairly TCF group gives fair consideration to equality and diversity in its Our long-term relationships with customers depend on recruitment and training of new talent and promotion and maintaining high levels of customer service and maintaining their development of existing employees.
As such, TCF principles are fully embedded within the groups business culture.
The minimum required standards are Each of the groups divisions has a Recruitment and Equal documented in group and divisional policies and are regularly Opportunity policy which encourages equality of opportunity reviewed for effectiveness at divisional board level.
regardless of race, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation or religion and seeks to create a workplace free of harassment or The scope and content of TCF reporting is subject to review at bullying.
least annually and all staff are given appropriate TCF training applicable to their role.
During the year, we have introduced Employee engagement enhanced management information to enable policies and The group values communication and feedback with its procedures to be more closely monitored and reviewed.
employees and is planning a further group wide Employee Opinion Survey in the 2013 financial year.
This survey will provide Complaint handling employees with the opportunity to give honest and confidential We seek to ensure customer satisfaction in all our new and feedback on their views of the group and how it operates.
existing relationships, and ensure that there are no unreasonable Response to the previous survey in the 2011 financial year was post-sale barriers for any of our products or services.
This positive both in terms of response rate and levels of employee includes the provision of a transparent complaints process to engagement.
Opportunities to further enhance employee ensure that any concerns raised with us are addressed promptly engagement were identified through the survey and action plans and efficiently.
We also seek to identify the root cause of were put in place locally to address these.
Focus groups and complaints and to make any appropriate changes to our short pulse-surveys have been used in local businesses to gain products and processes.
further feedback over the last 12 months.
Close Brothers Group plc 45 Annual Report 2012 Review of new and existing products and services have provided improved mechanisms for the groups head office The groups business model is based on providing simple, to monitor and report its carbon emissions.
straightforward products and communicating clearly and openly with our clients.
All new products and services offered by the Waste reduction and recycling group are subject to a detailed review process prior to their The group seeks to improve waste management and recycling introduction to the market which ensures they: where possible.
During the year, the waste management Meet the needs of our customers: contractor at the groups head office was changed and as a Are marketed in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading to result we are now recycling a higher proportion of general waste.
the customer: Perform as expected: and Contributing to the Community That any advice given as part of the sales process, is based on As we maintain our commitment to support the communities in a consideration of the needs of each customer.
which we operate, we encourage all staff to support charitable causes and promote a number of opportunities for employee All existing products and services are subject to periodic review participation.
to ensure that they continue to be fit for purpose in meeting customer needs and are performing as expected.
Charitable donations and matched giving The group continued to support The Princes Trust as its leading Anti-bribery and corruption charity of choice during the year.
Various fundraising activities The group conducts its business to the highest ethical standards were held throughout the year including a charity week in and professional conduct and seeks to mitigate where possible February 2012 in which employees across all locations were the risks of financial crime.
encouraged to raise money for charities of their choice.
The groups anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all The group has a matched giving policy which supports both employees and sets out minimum standards and best practice individual and team fundraising efforts by matching 30% of the for business conduct.
The group adheres to the Bribery Act 2010 fundraised amount, up to a maximum of 250 per employee.
In and compliance, risk and internal audit ensure compliance the year, the group donated a total amount of 160,000 2011: across the group through their review work.
228,500 to charitable causes, of which total matched funding schemes contributed 36% 2011: 25%.
Whistleblowing The group has a whistleblowing policy which aims to protect In addition to cash donations, the group also encouraged staff to employees who expose wrongdoing.
We seek to ensure participate in other charitable giving opportunities through transparency in dealing with all stakeholders and encourage high company arranged events including donating womens clothing standards of openness and accountability.
to DressforSuccess charity and holding a Christmas Toy Appeal for Community Links.
Anti-money laundering The group complies with all applicable anti-money laundering Give As You Earn GAYE regulations and all staff are given regular training to raise We encourage our employees to donate to charity in a tax awareness of their responsibilities.
Each of our regulated entities efficient manner through the GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In the have a dedicated money laundering reporting officer and 2011 financial year, we actively promoted our GAYE scheme compliance officer who are responsible for overseeing best through an organised campaign to raise awareness and increase practice and report any issues to the group centre.
The success of that campaign resulted in the group being awarded the National Payroll Giving Minimising our Impact on the Environment Excellence Award for Best Re-Launch of an Existing Scheme at We recognise our responsibilities in minimising the impact of our No.
11 Downing Street in October 2011. activities on the environment.
Given the nature of our businesses, the direct environmental impacts are limited and principally relate During the year, the participation in the scheme has remained to energy consumption and carbon emissions of our properties, broadly stable at just over 10% 2011: 11% of all UK employees, waste and recycling.
and the group maintained its Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award awarded in 2011 in recognition of the strong participation Energy consumption and carbon management rate.
The group remains committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, through optimising its energy consumption, and Employee volunteering reducing its carbon footprint of its electricity.
We recognise the importance of employees volunteering their time in the community and during the year, the group partnered We encourage employees to adopt energy efficient approaches with a school in Tower Hamlets, London and launched a school in the workplace including turning off PCs and lights and other reading project where staff volunteered their time to read with energy savings measures.
During the year, we have been primary school children once a week.
This has been very working with a third party energy management company who successful and it is now in its second year.
