Corporate responsibility and sustainability As a group, Bodycote is committed to acting responsibly as a good corporate citizen, to reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities and to providing our employees with a safe working environment.
28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Bodycotes stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the companys growth and sustainability, which in return provides benefits to employees, investors, suppliers, customers, the public sector and the wider society.
Investors Funders Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Employees Customers 5,700 employees Our services are provided knowledge, expertise and skill are a major part of the aerospace, defence, Groups intangible value.
energy and general 228.8m was paid out as Productivity Sales industrial industries.
Remuneration Services Bodycote: Provides thermal processing services that improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance Which in turn Improves the lifetime and Products performance of products Supports businesses and protects lives Payment Suppliers Suppliers profit from the location of the Group in Society local communities and from the Groups need for Bodycote generates wealth long-term stable supply for society and contributes partnerships.
to socioeconomic development through its Services Taxes sustainable business practices, investments Public Sector Tax payments fund services available to the public.
In total Group income and other tax amounts to 92.8m for the year.
com 22042.04 Proof 1 22-02-2013 Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued 1 Accident frequency Our approach Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns 1.9 1.8 1.7 through the provision of selected thermal processing services that 1.5 are highly valued by our customers and to achieve this in a safe working environment, while continually seeking to minimise the impact on the environment.
Bodycote is dedicated to improving management of corporate responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
The future success and growth of the Group is intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations are 2009 2010 2011 2012 sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
2 Carbon footprint Our people tonne CO e m sales 2 The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one 726.1 688.5 of the key challenges for management is to ensure availability of 629.1 632.8 appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
Bodycote is fortunate to have a competent and committed international team that is well-respected in technical and business circles.
Bodycote invests in the training and development of its people both at local and Group level.
At a local level the Company is committed to providing the appropriate skills and technical training which will 2009 2010 2011 2012 allow its employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles and deliver excellent customer service.
At Group level a number Water consumption of initiatives are currently being rolled out to drive excellence in thousand m m sales management.
1.92 1.76 1.73 A tool to develop further understanding and skill in the area 1.59 of performance management has been built and has been cascaded globally through the management population.
Through communication of clear messages coupled with skills development, the organisation aims to raise the capability of its management population in driving performance.
This initiative is backed by a performance management IS system which supports the process.
Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying 2009 2010 2011 2012 with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation or Chlorinated solvents nationality.
kg m sales 201.2 Human rights Bodycotes human rights policy is consistent with the Universal 162.9 151.3 Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compacts ten principles.
We prohibit forced, compulsory and underage labour and any form of discrimination based on race, gender, religion, age, disability or political affiliation.
Appropriate mechanisms are in place to support n a any contraventions of these rules.
2009 2010 2011 2012 Customers and suppliers ISO 14001 accredited facilities Bodycote has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent % upon the Groups business.
Suppliers are paid in line with 81 81 contractual and legal obligations.
77 78 We endeavour to respond quickly to changing customer demand, to identify emerging needs and to improve service availability and quality.
We stay close to our current and potential customers, building long-term relationships.
Bodycote seeks to play a positive role in the local communities in 2009 2010 2011 2012 which it operates by providing employment opportunities, building goodwill and developing a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
1 The accident rate for 2011 includes data for some regions that were previously not reported.
Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents per 200,000 hours worked.
2 CO e is carbon dioxide equivalent, which represents the CO released due to our energy usage.
2 2 30 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Responsible business ethics Environment All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that standard, consistent with an international UK-listed company.
Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water Directors and employees are expected to ensure that their personal and gas consumption and re-use energy.
The continuing focus on interests do not at any time conflict with those of Bodycote.
lessening its impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote Shareholder employees are advised of and comply with share advancing towards ISO 14001 accreditation at all of its facilities, dealing codes.
with most of the Group having already achieved this standard.
Bodycote has systems in place designed to ensure compliance with At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing all applicable laws and regulations and conformity with all relevant cycle, our operational aim is to reduce the overall impact on the codes of business practice.
Furthermore, Bodycote does not make environment, not just in our own operations, but also those of our political donations.
Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment, which is operated around the clock so as to optimise thermal processing With regard to competition, Bodycote aims to win business in a cycles.
Without Bodycote, many companies would be using older differentiated high-value manner.
The Group does not employ unfair technology in-house and running their equipment at reduced trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within the capacity, both of which are a drain on energy resources.
Working requirements of the applicable laws.
Employees are prohibited from with Bodycote enables our customers to commit more easily to either giving or receiving any inducements.
Our Open Door Policy has been translated into all languages used Bodycote also reduces the carbon footprint of its customers throughout the Group.
The policy allows employees to report their activities by increasing the lifespan of their products, by improving concern orally or in writing and in confidence to an independent metallurgical properties and by enhancing corrosion resistance.
third party provider to ensure anonymity.
Reports are transcribed For example, surface treatment technology is widely used in the and sent to the Vice President of Risk, who then passes the matter reclamation of damaged and worn components, offering a costto the appropriate individual in the business to address.
effective and energy-efficient alternative to the need to manufacture new replacement parts, and treated parts often last up to twenty Bribery and Competition Law online training courses have been times longer than the original.
put in place, translated into the major languages used throughout the Group, and relevant employees have completed the interactive So, whilst thermal processing is an energy-intensive business, it is courses.
a vital part of the manufacturing chain and its use saves the energy it consumes many times over.
Operational SHE performance ISO 14001 accredited facilities Bodycote is committed to building and maintaining a high reliability organisation: one that delivers consistently high performance Reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is across all aspects of safety, health and environmental SHE taken very seriously.
Compliance with the requirements of ISO management.
Its objective is to be known for the excellence of 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects its SHE performance in all of its business activities and at all of its at Bodycotes locations.
At the end of 2012, the Group had 193 sites.
locations and 78% of our operating facilities had achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
The decrease in the percentage compared to Safety and health prior years is due to facilities acquired which have not yet obtained accreditation.
Excluding acquisitions, 86% of our facilities had The nature of the Groups operations is such that employees are achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
potentially exposed to hazards in the workplace.
Bodycote aims to manage these hazards and thereby minimise risks to employees KPI Carbon footprint and water consumption through the deployment of a robust safety management system which includes appropriate policies and procedures.
As a consequence of the increase in sales, and the acquisition of a number of new operational sites, the absolute electricity usage Although Bodycote has reduced its lost-time accident rate by 35% increased by 2% whilst gas usage increased by 14.4% - together over the past five years, it recognises the need to improve further.
accounting for an increase in energy usage of 8.8%.
The total Starting in 2012, a three-year global improvement strategy has been Group energy use excluding these acquisitions remained constant initiated, which focuses on all aspects of the safety management compared with 2011. system, whilst developing cultural maturity.
An important element of this is the role of leadership, including the active engagement Excluding acquisitions the carbon footprint decreased by 3.5% from of managers at all levels in managing safety, but recognising that 629.1 tonnes per m sales to 606.9 tonnes per m sales.
Including all employees have responsibilities for their own safety and the acquisitions the carbon footprint increased by 0.6% to 632.8 tonnes safety of others.
In keeping with this, a group-wide employee per m of sales.
safety climate survey was undertaken in 2012, to which 41% of all employees responded.
A number of specific improvement actions Water usage per m sales decreased by 8%.
The Groups total have been taken to address some of the concerns raised by the CO emission data is based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, 2 survey.
as defined by the UK Governments Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, and data relating to this has been calculated KPI accident frequency lost-time injury rate to include country-specific electricity conversion factors.
Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents Chlorinated solvent use per 200,000 hours worked.
The use of chlorinated solvents in Bodycotes thermal processing activities has been reduced in recent years as aqueous degreasing equipment has been introduced.
In 2012 the overall solvent use decreased by 7% compared with the previous year.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued A greener, cleaner environment Reducing any detrimental impact on the environment has become a growing focus of industry worldwide and Bodycote can assist in the drive towards carbon reduction and environmentally friendly approaches in a number of ways.
For example, certain heat treatment and thermally sprayed surface treatments are leading the way in the replacement of older, less environmentally friendly processes such as chrome plating.
Future restrictions that will be placed on chrome plating due to health and environmental issues have led many businesses, including the major aerospace companies, to embark on initiatives to replace it.
These companies have highlighted thermal spray coatings as the preferred replacement for chrome plating.
Bodycote has been involved in a number of initiatives to replace chrome plate and results have shown that, in addition to the environmental benefits, thermally sprayed tungsten carbide outperforms hard chrome plate for both wear and corrosion protection.
Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed designers and manufacturers to use much lighter materials, such as aluminium and titanium, and have significantly prolonged component lifetimes.
Through the effective use of thermal processing, parts can now be lighter and overall component weight reduced, leading to improved efficiency and reduced fuel consumption of products in service.
32 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012
