Business review: Performance review Corporate social responsibility Acting responsibly One of the most exciting elements of building a new corporate brand is being able to take a fresh look at everything we do Four core elements We have worked closely with Business in The Community BITC and identied four core Corporate Social Responsibility CSR elements: Employee Experience: Business Practices: Community: and Energy and Environment.
Each has its own distinct strategy, developed with the help of our employees volunteers from across the business who are passionate about doing the right thing.
Employee experience Strategy People matter.
They do much more than their jobs: they help us achieve our vision to be the best.
We must recognise how far we have come and what we I feel passionately about Direct Line Group still need to change in order to be the best.
Our focus is on evolving our strategy to provide a better employee and playing an important role in contributing customer experience.
We are using all information channels to UK growth, jobs and taxes.
Building available, linking the analysis and interpreting the results to develop our people, their talents, create the right culture a strong, successful and sustainable and build sustainable engagement.
business is integral to achieving this.
Challenges and opportunities A s a leading retail general insurer, our As we continue with our transformation programme, it is vital that we continuously monitor our employee engagement levels responsibility is not only to our customers, and behaviours through various channels.
We will focus on shareholders and staff, but also to the measures of their experiences before, during and after their time with us.
We seek to understand how best to enable a company culture Our values are a first step in reecting that is collaborative, empowering, and innovative, so that our that responsibility and embedding people are able to inuence the customer experience positively and achieve superior customer and shareholder value.
The Groups diversity network aims to represent the multiple Jane Hanson, Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee minority groups within our business and aspires to have a workforce reective of the outside world and our customer base.
The network has just been established and we hope to encourage up to 10% of our workforce to become members by the end of 2014.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 47 Corporate social responsibility continued Achievements in 2012 This is reected in the Global Transitional Companies 1 1 Involve and consult our people Norm Group, which we outperform in 13 of 15 To make the Group a great place to work, we know it is categories including: important to involve and consult our people on the design and t 14% higher for treating each other with respect delivery of all our major transformational initiatives.
We do this through: our business-wide employee representative body t 13% higher for innovation and empowerment ERB, which ensures all employees have a voice: an in-house t 8% higher for customer focus social media platform called Best-Quest, used by more than 30% of our employees to discuss improvement ideas and t 9% higher for strategic leadership initiatives: and an intranet-based comment and feedback We exceed in the following key areas: facility.
This has proved to be a popular channel through which they are embracing our values.
A key achievement t 7% higher for people leadership of the programme was the distillation of the ideas received t 7% higher for managing change from employees to arrive at a set of values to govern the way the Group operates.
t 4% higher for the extent to which our people feel the values have been embedded 2 Invest in our leadership We recognise it is critical to have a strong and diverse In areas where we do not outperform, such as personal leadership team that recognises the technical, people and development, we are taking a number of initiatives.
These general business leadership skills required to achieve our include our new Leadership Framework, People Managers vision.
A new leadership group has been identied, which has Transformation Programme and the new people development collective accountability for and ownership of our strategy.
We and succession planning processes.
have introduced a new leadership programme in partnership with Ashridge Business School, and have worked with Henley Importantly, we know that our people leaders have faith Business School to identify emerging talent to become future in the future: 82% are optimistic about developments, senior managers.
A new leadership competency framework and we are rated 7% higher than other financial services has been designed to help our leaders become best in class.
3 Maintain peoples engagement Business practices Recognising the importance of peoples engagement through Strategy organisational transformation, we have worked on proactively Embedding CSR in our day-to-day business operations is identifying where there are employee engagement issues across critical if we are to build a sustainable business one which the organisation and put in place supporting activities to our customers, shareholders and employees value and respect.
mitigate these, such as outplacement support, redeployment Our strategy is to encourage and reward behaviour which and career fairs.
Benchmarking against the Towers Watson makes the communities we impact safer places to be through 2012 surveys, our engagement index shows that we product innovation, customer education and working with have maintained employee engagement throughout our government and other bodies.
transformation journey to date at 73%, which is in line Note: with industry norms.
Data Source: Towers Watson: Employee Opinion Survey 2012.
Ideas from employees helped to arrive at a set of values to govern the Our aim is to create a culture of volunteering, giving all our employees way the Group operates.
48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review: Performance review Challenges and opportunities Community Making our communities safer, through reducing vehicle Strategy collisions and crime, aligns both insurance risk and our We are committed to helping make communities safer safer CSR thinking, helping us maintain operational effectiveness for our customers, safer for our people and safer for the areas in the long term.
Reducing the number of claims our customers in which we operate.
To help do this, our aim is to create experience not only provides us with commercial benefit, but a culture of volunteering across our business, giving all our more importantly reduces the distress and inconvenience our employees one paid day off a year to get actively involved customers face when they are involved in a road trafc accident, with one of our new national charity partners or local or household incident, or when they are the victims of crime.
We are already involved in a number of important areas, for Our three main areas of focus are: example: road safety through our sponsorship programmes with t Road safety education Brake: industry initiatives on uninsured drivers: and combating the increase in fraudulent claims.
There is a clear opportunity t Helping out in a crisis for us to expand these programmes and deepen our support t The reduction of crime and anti-social behaviour through product innovation and customer education.
in our communities Through our supplier network, we have a clear opportunity Our four national charity partners are: to develop best practice further.
For example, through our Repair not Replace programme, we are reducing our t Brake environmental impact.
t RoadSafe Achievements in 2012 t The Princes Trust t We chaired an industry seminar called Steering Young t Catch22 Drivers in the Right Direction, which brought together the Government, the insurance industry and researchers to Road safety discuss how to reduce the number of collisions involving We see it as a duty and an important issue to campaign to young drivers who have recently passed their test.
make our roads safer for all users.
The Direct Line brand has t We launched a range of severe weather guides to help fostered a nine-year working relationship with road safety charity our customers prepare their homes for bad weather and Brake.
An ongoing sponsorship of Brakes Parliamentarian of to minimise any damage caused.
the Year Awards takes place every January to recognise MPs who campaign on road safety issues.
t Our severe weather response vehicle mobile ofce, helps us to reach more customers in areas that have Education is key to making our roads safer.
The Group has been extremely badly affected.
It is a local base where signed up to the European Road Safety Charter, an initiative our customers and suppliers can come and speak to us.
that shares good practice to resolve road safety issues across t We established Health & Safety H&S governance the European Union.
In Westminster, we sponsor policy procedures including an H&S Executive Committee and debates by way of panel discussions on subjects such as the elected representatives from across the business.
impact of uninsured drivers, how to reduce the risk to young drivers and combating fraud.
Our new public policy focus is on helping young drivers through improved education and technology.
Beep-Beep Days are sponsored in schools across the UK, teaching children the rules of the road in a fun way.
We have further strengthened our relationship with Brake by making it a national charity partner.
Under this arrangement, all our employees now have the opportunity to become involved in educating young children.
RoadSafe has also been chosen as one of our national charity partners.
Its mission is to reduce road deaths and injuries through a variety of road safety initiatives.
In collaboration with local police and road safety managers, our employees have the opportunity to become involved in local Community Speedwatch campaigns, monitoring the speed of vehicles in areas of concern to the public.
This is the first of Direct Line Group is proud to be involved in educating young children a number of RoadSafe initiatives we are planning.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 49 Corporate social responsibility continued Helping out in a crisis Catch22 this organisation is a forward-looking social We are there to help people in their time of need, whether business with many years experience of providing services that be when their home has been ooded or when they that give young people an alternative to getting into trouble, are involved in a car crash.
Our customer service teams are crime and anti-social behaviour.
Through the Catch22 trained to deal with the worst cases and our technical teams Community Space Challenge project, our employees volunteer and loss adjustors are deployed all over the country to help to work alongside local young people to transform neglected our customers recover.
Our aim is to get peoples lives back public spaces.
on track as easily as possible.
When major events affect our Supporting our employees in charitable giving communities, we aim to deploy our people to help and advise We also support our employees in their charitable giving in these communities, not just our insured customers.
We have through our payroll giving scheme, matching their monthly also built a specialist mobile ofce that helps us base ourselves contributions by up to 50 per person per month.
Our right in the heart of communities that are in crisis.
Community Cashback scheme gives employees the opportunity The reduction of crime and anti-social behaviour to apply for an annual award of 250 for their charitable in our communities endeavours.
We also recognise the great things that our We are building a programme to enable us to interact more employees do to support local communities, both within and closely with our communities and to use our knowledge, outside work, through our Chief Executive Awards scheme.
people and presence to draw attention to crime and anti-social Challenges and opportunities behaviour and the impact this has on our communities.
Our There are many ways in which we get involved in programmes, aim is to make our communities safer by raising awareness sponsorships and volunteering with a number of organisations of the issues amongst employees and the wider community, that work in and for the community.
If we spread this activity and to work with relevant community partners to help prevent too wide, we will dilute our impact.
To counter this challenge people slipping into crime and anti-social behaviour.
we chose to partner with four charities whose activities are We have chosen to partner with: aligned with our commitment to make communities safer.
The Princes Trust this charity specialises in helping Achievements in 2012 disadvantaged young people.
In collaboration with t Through our Community Cashback scheme our employees The Princes Trust, we ran a Get into car repairs pilot at were able to donate an additional 48,000 to the charities our Wakeeld accident repair centre.
Over a four-week in which they are involved or are close to their heart.
period, 15 disadvantaged young people received technical t Through our payroll giving scheme, by matching employee car repair training, work readiness skills including CV donations we were able to contribute 112,000 to the writing and interview experience and soft skills such as charities that matter to our people.
A number of people t Through utilising our call centre network we were able from our Leeds sites volunteered as mentors, offering ongoing to support Children in Need and Comic Relief, with over support to the participants.
Following its success, we aim to 900 employees taking pledge telephone calls.
assess the feasibility of how we develop the programme further.
In collaboration with The Princes Trust, were helping disadvantaged Our specialist mobile ofce helps us base ourselves right in the heart young people get back into the workplace.
of communities that are in crisis.
50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review: Performance review Energy and environment Challenges and opportunities Strategy Climate change is a very real commercial risk to our business.
We intend that our operations will be managed sustainably The landmark climate change risk assessment study by the and with environmental considerations at the heart of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in January way we run the business.
We will manage our operational 2012 cited ooding as one of the key risks faced by Britain impact and aim to reduce our carbon footprint.
and estimated that ood risks to buildings and infrastructure were anticipated to rise to between 2 billion and 12 billion We have dened our ambitions as follows: by the 2080s.
As a leading home insurer, we are in discussion with the Government on how to address these future risks, as t Buildings the high prole of our portfolio provides a very well as sharing our data and insight.
visible opportunity to demonstrate our practical commitment to CSR.
We aim to encourage recycling and biodiversity A key challenge for our environment strategy is to obtain to consume less energy, water and to produce less waste.
all relevant information to gain a clearer view of our current impacts and position, and enable us to monitor our CSR KPIs, t Business we aim to reduce the impact of our travel, both as a business and by site.
to the ofce and to business meetings: to promote exible working arrangements: to consume less energy and paper: In 2007, we were one of the founding members of and to use existing assets more efficiently.
ClimateWise, an industry-wide membership group, which t People we aim to connect people in ways that benefit works with the University of Cambridge to analyse the effects the environment, from car pools to volunteer groups.
of climate change and how the industry can combat them.
We aim to achieve all this by: Achievements in 2012 t 100% renewable rate on contracted electricity sourced t Creating and maintaining healthy workplaces by physical for our UK ofces and our default ofce paper has 100% upgrade: maintaining suitable environmental conditions: recycled content.
targeting and reducing high energy usage by improving t We have improved our paper sourcing and for marketing plant efficiency: introducing new technologies: and and customer documents we use Forest Stewardship Council encouraging change from our employees.
certied, vegetable and water-based inks with the ability to t Introducing a range of agile working practices and track from source.
We are also actively working on reducing technological improvements to enhance exibility, the volume of paper mailed and archived through electronic minimise travel, and reduce printing, accommodation and alternative delivery channels.
t We were one of the first insurers to provide insurance for t Undertaking water and waste audits: seeking to minimise electric vehicles and have committed to supporting the waste at source and disposal to landll and to maximise move towards more sustainable vehicles.
re-use, recycling and energy from waste.
We will look t We recycled 76% of the waste generated by our to minimise water use and recycle where appropriate.
Accident Repair Centres, saving 1,517 tonnes of CO. 2 t Encouraging reduction in car travel through improved travel planning, facilities and agile working practices, and by promoting car sharing and cycling to work.
We aim to monitor performance metrics across the business and by site, and track our progress in each of these areas.
We also aim to submit to external regulation as required, and expect to operate in compliance with Energy, Environmental and Pollution Prevention Regulations.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 51
