THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 1% of net asset value, as adjusted for shorter periods where required.
A performance fee of 3,584,000 is due for the year ended 31 March 2012 2011: none.
VAT on Management fees As previously reported, management fees paid by the Company are no longer subject to VAT.
During the year, Aberdeen Asset Management, a former manager of the Company, received a supplementary interest payment from HM Revenue & Customs, of which the proportion paid to the Company was 18,090.
The Managers Responsibilities The Directors have delegated to Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies.
The Manager has discretion to make purchases and sales, make and withdraw cash deposits, enter into underwriting commitments and exercise all rights over the investment portfolio.
The Manager also advises on borrowings.
The Manager provides full administration and company secretarial services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal and regulatory requirements and officiating at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company as well as interim management statements.
The Board has reviewed and accepted the Managers whistleblowing policy under which staff of Invesco Asset Management Limited can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in matters affecting the Company.
The Managers Investment Process and Performance At the core of Invesco Perpetuals investment philosophy is a belief in active investment management.
Fundamental principles drive a genuinely unconstrained investment approach, which aims to deliver attractive total returns over the long term.
These fundamental principles place an emphasis on sound balance sheets, good cash flows, the ability to pay and sustain dividends, strong asset bases and on market conditions.
The investment manager and the UK Equities team employ a pragmatic, valuation-orientated approach that allows investment freedom, such that the investment manager can select stocks free from the constraint of the weighting within the benchmark.
The investment managers focus is on absolute rather than relative returns, as he chooses to take a long term view in the companies he invests in and to invest where he sees value and opportunity.
The aim of the investment process is to identify companies whose outlook or growth prospects are not reflected in their valuations.
To identify these companies the investment manager combines bottom-up research with a top-down macro-economic view.
Stocks are then subjected to detailed fundamental analysis augmented by a qualitative assessment of the company.
The output from this analysis is then used to construct and review the portfolio with the aim of maximising exposure to the most attractive opportunities within its risk parameters.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management and secretarial arrangements.
The Committee considers, among other matters investment performance, marketing activity, secretarial and administrative services, the finance and control environments, compliance, audit and terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Board, based on its recent review of activities, considers that the continuing appointment of Invesco Asset Management Limited is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price-to-book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example quality of management, innovation and product strength.
