18 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility CR CR commitment CR categories supporting strategic ambitions The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of F&C has established key performance indicators KPIs for each of governance and corporate citizenship.
We recognise that, in the CR categories outlined below, details of which can be found in addition to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders, we also the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website.
A have responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the summary of our objectives in each area is set out below.
companies in which we invest and the wider community in which Marketplace we operate.
F&C will use the influence of its clients assets to engage with CR strategy companies on all relevant CR matters where this will improve The Group has two overarching, strategic CR ambitions: business performance.
F&C intends to achieve 285 milestones being an instance in which a company improves its policies, To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing procedures or practices following engagement and where F&Cs dynamics in the world economy, through our products and participation has been a major factor in 2013. through influencing companies to improve business performance.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate Governance Operational Guidelines on 100 per cent of global To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of resolutions for which it is mandated on behalf of clients and will corporate responsibility in our own operations.
F&C will contact 100 per cent of We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic companies following an abstention or vote against management.
ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
Environment We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress against F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is committed to the targets set within each category, both internally on a quarterly helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon emissions.
Over the basis and externally at least annually.
F&Cs CR policies are guided next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent of its energy usage by a number of broadly-accepted international standards and from renewable sources, where such markets exist.
Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of our progress and publish these results.
F&C will source 100 per cent of its paper from chlorine-free recycled supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent and increase its F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our own recycling by 20 per cent.
F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its External validation influence to the companies in which it invests.
2011 Existing 2013 position position target Workplace BITC Corporate Platinum Platinum Platinum F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own Responsibility Index status status status workplace issues.
EIRIS FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and does UN Global Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, Compact CCP sexual orientation, age or physical disability.
F&C will educate Carbon Disclosure Member Member Member 100 per cent of employees on the importance of recognising and Project embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
Principles for Founding Founding Founding Responsible signatory signatory signatory F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate Investment all-employee share schemes.
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients, employees, suppliers, government and non-government organisations, the wider community, other asset management companies and companies in which we invest.
We engage widely with stakeholder groups, through regular dialogue tailored to meet the requirements of each stakeholder group.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 19 CR key performance indicators Category KPI statistic 2012 performance 2013 targets Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 100% 100% Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention or vote against management 100% 100% Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5% Workplace Diversity or Compliance training staff coverage 100% 100% Community Staff participation in Give As You Earn 11% 15% Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 509 475 Staff volunteering for community projects 58 staff days 365 staff days 5 members of staff in the London office participated in the London Community Marathon, raising funds for a variety of charitable causes.
F&C offers financial support and, wherever practicable, offers employees time off work to support charitable activities.
More than 30 members of staff based in the UK volunteered for a variety of events held by the Charity of the Year, Back Up Trust.
In 2013 F&C is targeting 365 staff days of community work.
F&C targets 15 per cent of employees participating in the Give As How is CR implemented by F&C You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&Cs policies on CR and their implementation throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee, Examples of some of our 2012 community or chaired by David Logan.
charity events 67 members of staff participated in the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge, held in Battersea Park, London, raising funds for Barnardos.
In 2012, 17 members of staff participated in the BiTCs Community Richard Wilson David Logan Games initiative which formed part of their annual Give & Gain 25 March 2013 25 March 2013 event.
