Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate social responsibility As a service business that does not At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to make sure that our impact on society is a positive one.
own its business premises and is Our company values are rooted in providing great service at a great price, and we believe that fundamentally based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves Lansdown has a doing the right thing makes great business sense.
limited direct impact on the environment.
Nevertheless the Group continues to We are committed to managing the promote energy efficiency and the environmental impact of our operations, avoidance of waste throughout its treating our employees well and operations and a number of initiatives, maintaining a great culture and working such as recycling and energy efficient environment.
These values are embedded technology, are encouraged.
in the Culture document provided to all staff and communicated to staff on a The Board considers that the regular basis by the Chief Executive.
environmental risk from direct actions taken by the Group is minimal, and that the main social responsibility focus should be on the Groups clients and staff, and improving the financial independence of the UK public.
Information on the Groups employment policies and client service is detailed in the Directors Report: other information section.
We appreciate the need to continually reduce the impact of our business on the environment and we aim to improve on the positive steps we have already taken and ensure that social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account in our future decision-making.
Improving financial capability: The Board agreed in 2009 to provide support of Our approach to Corporate social responsibility 30,000 p. a. for five years to a project that, includes these key elements: like our own business, seeks to encourage savings and financial awareness.
The supported project provides these services in deprived areas within Bristol.
Quality We want to offer the best products and offer an excellent service, and Putting clients first: There is a culture are always looking for ways to improve.
in the business that has existed for many years to which all employees adhere to.
At the heart of the culture is to always put the client first.
This culture is nurtured Sustainability and conveyed to all new employees and We work for the long-term, looking beyond immediate success.
existing employees on a regular basis.
As part of this culture we actively monitor all areas of the business via monthly and quarterly reporting to ensure that we are Integrity Treating Clients Fairly.
We deal with people openly and honestly, building strong relationships.
One way to ensure that we are getting things right with clients is to listen to them 30 31 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Communities: The Group essentially and the changes they would like to see to our services.
We encourage and actively seeks to contribute to the communities seek feedback from clients.
We also in which we live and work.
In addition to providing employment opportunities, we conduct client satisfaction surveys and the most recent one in June 2012 revealed that continue to support the local community 95% rated our service as good, very good initiative to promote financial capability as described above.
The Group also makes or excellent.
significant tax payments which help Reducing energy consumption: Our society as a whole.
Corporation tax and employers national insurance paid in modern office has chilled beam air conditioning, which is up to 60% more respect of the year ended 30 June 2012 energy efficient.
The building uses was 39.8 million 2011: 33.8 million.
technology to manage lighting minimising In addition other taxes such as VAT, stamp duty and business rates paid.
We will continue to introduce energy-efficient schemes and look at ways of optimising the energy performance With the momentous occasion of hosting the 2012 Olympics in London, a couple of our business and in reducing our electricity usage.
Our electricity usage is of years ago the Group decided to support not high enough to mean that we have a grass-roots sports club.
A monthly donation is made to the Bristol & West to participate in the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Athletics Club which is the leading allScheme.
This scheme was compulsory We are also aiming to automate other round athletics club in the Southwest We again supported of England, providing coaching and for UK organisations that consumed processes such as ISA and SIPP transfers.
two teams of staff from over 6,000 MWh of half-hourly metered These currently involve movement of competition for the widest range of electricity for the period January 2008 paperwork between various parties around events, for all age groups and all abilities Hargreaves Lansdown who to December 2008.
During that period the United Kingdom.
The aim would be to throughout the year.
competed in the Invesco ultimately get such transfers all processed we consumed well below that level and for the year ended 30 June 2012 we had online and we are actively pushing for We are again supporting two teams of Perpetual Highland consumed only 3,097 MWh 2011: 3,058 a workable solution that will enable an staff from Hargreaves Lansdown who Adventure Race in automated online transfer process.
are competing in the Invesco Perpetual MWh.
Although we do not set a formal target for the reduction in electricity encouraged and many staff embark on Highland Adventure Race in September September of this year.
With the momentous consumption, the ethos of the company Commuting: We provide a secure bike professional qualifications to further of this year.
This is a challenging event, occasion of hosting the 2012 their knowledge and careers within the facilitating team bonding whilst raising is such that we always try to keep energy park at our office enabling up to 150 staff consumption to a minimum.
We were also mindful Company.
During the year-ended 30 June money for the Mitchemp Trust, which aims Olympics in London, a couple of selecting our office location close to 2012 180 staff sat a professional exam and to provide outdoor adventure programmes of years ago the Group for youths in order to help give them hope, Business travel is another area residential areas where many of our staff 54 completed a professional qualification.
which impacts both our costs and live, allowing them to walk to work.
confidence and life skills to meet the decided to support a the environment.
We do not provide We provide the facility for clients to opt Integrity: The Company prides itself on challenges in their lives.
company cars as standard to managers out of receiving paper valuations and Recycling: We continue to shred its integrity in dealing with clients and or to our network of advisers.
Instead these documents and recycle confidential waste and staff openly and honestly.
There is an Every year we receive many requests for advisers are spread throughout the UK are now available in electronic format have arrangements for the collection embedded culture whereby the interests support from a wide range of charitable which minimises travel time and carbon through our secure website.
Our of recyclable waste such as printer of clients are always put first, known All staff are also trained and made and social groups.
Though often very toner cartridges, cardboard, plastics, as Treating Clients Fairly TCF and fully aware of anti-money laundering worthy causes, unfortunately we are not emissions.
We provide a telephone advice investment in this area will continue service to handle those cases where a faceand we aim to further reduce the amount newspapers and out-of-date literature.
this is communicated to all employees procedures which must be adhered to at able to make a donation to them all.
Other to-face meeting is unnecessary.
of paper we use whilst providing better We also continue to recycle redundant IT in the business during their induction all times.
The Company takes the views of than the above, we have made it company and throughout their careers.
In practice its employees very seriously and as such policy to support only one charity or service.
The benefits will grow as more equipment through specialist third parties.
Efficiency and minimising environmental people and businesses choose to transact TCF for Hargreaves Lansdown includes operates a Whistleblowing Policy with non-profit organisation each year which impact: In many respects, our objective business and receive information online.
Employment and diversity: Hargreaves elements such as ensuring all product any concerns raised about malpractice or is selected from suggestions received from employees within the Group.
During the of reducing waste and minimising the Lansdown proudly fosters a working design and information is clear and that wrongdoing within the workplace being environmental impact of our business is At our year-end 41% of our Vantage environment that wholly supports clients fully understand the features, treated with the utmost confidence and in year the chosen charity was Cots for aligned with our objectives of protecting clients were registered as paperless the principals of equality to all and is benefits, risks and costs of the financial full compliance with the Public Interest Tots.
This is being run by the Wallace & Gromit appeal and is aiming to raise client data, reducing costs, and improving whereby they receive all contract notes committed to ensuring that everyone is products they buy: that information Disclosure Act.
It is our aim to deal with clients and statements online 30 June 2011: treated with dignity and respect.
All staff and client support is available to clients 1 million for the special care baby unit.
are given an induction which amongst after the point of sale: that appropriate The Company actively seeks to lobby via All of our fund raising initiatives are now wherever possible and we have invested other things will cover the culture and ethos complaints handling procedures are in public consultation documents where they focused on this charity.
Total donations to of the firm and how we place the interest place and that financial promotion and believe that investors in the UK will benefit charity for the year ended 30 June 2012 heavily in providing a user-friendly, 87% of equity deals were placed online comprehensive website and automated in the year to 30 June 2012 compared to of clients at the heart of everything we marketing practices are unbiased and examples include: the ability to transfer were 62,000 2011: 51,000.
We do not links to banks and fund providers.
Professional development is actively appropriate for their audience.
Child Trust Funds to Junior ISAs.
32 33 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
