Corporate Social Responsibility The business of the Company is to make investments in To promote acceptance and implementation of PRI within infrastructure assets, to hold these investments and to manage the investment industry the portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable return for To report on activities and progress towards implementing shareholders.
In managing the Company and the Group, the the PRI Directors have ensured that procedures and policies have been put in place by the Group and its service providers to manage the Group effectively and minimise risk.
Annual Review As part of good practice and to mitigate risk, the Board has in The Board has reviewed its performance and the performance place a set of Environmental, Social and Governance policies of its service providers in the last 12 months and can confirm appropriate for a company investing in infrastructure assets, compliance with its stated ESG policies, details of which are which conform to current good practice in relation to corporate given below.
The Directors have considered whether these responsibility.
ESG policies need updating when compared to good industry practice as applicable to an infrastructure Investment Company The Companys Environmental, Social and Governance ESG and believe them to be current and appropriate.
As highlighted policies cover: above, the Investment Adviser has registered with the United how the Company interacts with stakeholders, including Nations PRI and has undertaken to review the Groups polices shareholders, and give recommendations to the Board.
what ESG considerations need to be made before a new investment is acquired, and Governance how the current portfolio is managed by the Investment The Board remains committed to the highest standards of Adviser to promote and achieve good ESG practices.
corporate governance and keeps the Companys practices under review with respect to current best practice.
Further details In May 2011, the Investment Adviser undertook an evaluation of how the Company complies are set out in the Corporate of the best practice with regard to industry ESG policies.
consulted with other investment advisers, institutional investors and industry bodies.
On the basis of strong positive feedback, The Board wishes to be at the forefront of disclosure and the Investment Adviser has registered with the United Nations reporting of the Companys performance and strategic agreeing to adopt and implement its Principles for Responsible intentions.
The Board believe this is achieved by the detailed Investment PRI which are widely recognised and highly information provided as follows: regarded around the world.
The Investment Adviser is now progressively incorporating these PRI within its business.
As Annual reports part of this process, it will be re-examining the Companys ESG Interim statement and accounts policies for us and making any recommendations on how they can be improved and enhanced.
Detailed presentations to accompany the results The UN PRI can be summarised as follows: Two Interim Management Statements a year To incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis Announcements of all material acquisitions and decision-making Lunches and meetings with shareholders, the Directors To be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into and the Investment Adviser ownership policies and practices To seek appropriate disclosures on ESG issues by the entities in which the investments are made HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 59 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Governance continued The Companys website www.
com has further information with monthly monitoring of power usage with a view to on each investment and copies of all publications, together with reducing consumption and creating incentives to reduce all prospectuses since launch.
Disclosure of key sensitivities and risks has been developed This has been further environmental initiatives at our Home by the Board working with the Investment Adviser and through Ofce Headquarters project where a programme of ne dialogue with shareholders, the level and type of disclosure is tuning plant operating times and temperature and humidity developed and rened in order to assist in a full and fair analysis set points, as well as the installation of movement sensitive of the Company and its investments.
lighting controls and dual ush toilet cisterns, aimed at reducing energy and water consumption.
Managing the Portfolio At Colchester Garrison, the project company has constructed a Personnel Recovery Centre which has been delivered with Day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is undertaken an Excellent environmental rating by BREEAM, one of the by the Investment Adviser in its capacity as Operator of the worlds leading environmental assessment method and rating Partnership.
The policies and procedures within each area of systems for buildings.
ESG are set out below as well as examples of where active implementation has occurred in some of the projects in which the Group has an investment.
These are not exhaustive but Social and Ethical represent the types and variety of initiatives being undertaken Policy and Procedures throughout the Group.
Where successful, certain initiatives have been implemented more widely within the Group e. g. utility The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that smart meter installation.
for environmental in that each key contractors policies will be reviewed and their ongoing compliance to their stated policies reviewed on a regular basis.
In addition, the Investment Environmental Advisers team will ensure that the project companies in which the Group has investments are run appropriately in relation to Policy and Procedures the Groups social and ethical policies.
All of the Groups investments are in project companies who provide services to their clients and who subcontract the Health and Safety performance of each investment is monitored provision of these services to specialist facilities management and during the year a number of Health and Safety audits companies.
were carried out by a Health and Safety consultant to ensure procedures and policies were in place and being adhered to.
On a routine basis, the Investment Adviser undertakes a Information on Health and Safety is reported to the Board on a review to ensure that each key contractor or their group has quarterly basis.
appropriate environmental policies in place and that these are being adhered to in delivery of the services to the project Examples of initiatives in the year: and that further, there have been no material breaches of their At all of the schools constructed under the Bradford Schools policies.
During the year these reviews have found no issues of BSF project the new buildings have incorporated a significant concern.
level of facilities which have been made available to, and The Investment Advisers asset managers continue to take utilised by the wider local community.
These include sports a proactive approach to work with both clients and key halls, pitches, swimming pools and libraries.
stakeholders to introduce new environmental initiatives in In addition to allowing public use of the leisure facilities at each project company where appropriate.
the Conwy Schools project, one school is considering offering Examples of initiatives in the year: adult learning classes for parents of children who are less engaged with the school.
The project company also sponsors The buildings within our Sussex Custodial Services project the School of the Year award at the prestigious annual Conwy have had half-hourly smart pulse electricity meters installed County sports awards which recognise achievement in a wide range of sports for able and disabled sportsmen and women.
60 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The Personnel Recovery Centre at Colchester Garrison was of our overseas project companies in Canada, Holland and built not only to provide accommodation for soldiers, but also Ireland also acknowledge their responsibilities in this respect to accommodate representatives from both the Royal British even though they are not legally bound by any legislation.
Legion and Help 4 Heroes who assist those people in the Furthermore, we have notied all of the primary contractors in army and those who have retired.
all our project companies of the ramications of the Bribery Act 2010 and requested conrmation that they have appropriate Many project companies have sponsored local, sociallysimilar policies in place.
beneficial initiatives such as the training of a local opera singer to give free recitals at the Central Middlesex Hospital: Making New Investments the purchase of 100 trees to celebrate the centenary of one of the Fife Schools: the provision of microwaves for patient The Investment Adviser has a detailed set of procedures and use in the maternity unit, and free hot drinks for relatives in approval processes in relation to the making of new investments.
the ICU, at West Middlesex Hospital: the purchase of festive These include appropriate ESG checks as part of the due decorations in the public areas of Blackburn Hospital and diligence processes.
facilitation of visits by local school children to sing carols to patients.
Environmental As part of the detailed due diligence carried out by the Investment Adviser and the advisers, the history of the Governance investment in relation to the Companys environmental policies Policy and Procedures will be assessed.
Key contractors and service providers are For all the investments in the portfolio, the Group is entitled to analysed to check they have appropriate policies in place and appoint at least one director and these positions have all been that there have been no breaches lled by a person recommended by the Group.
Board meetings Where it is not possible to get comfortable with either a key are not quorate without the Groups nominated director being contractors environmental record or the projects environmental present and this is part of the Investment Advisers active performance to date, the investment will not be made.
There management of the underlying investments.
All directors fees were no circumstances in the year where this was the case.
paid by the projects are for the benefit of the Group, and not the Investment Adviser.
Social and Ethical The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that All the project companies have detailed governance structures for environmental in that each key contractors policies will including those matters which are reserved to shareholders be reviewed as part of the due diligence process.
The trading to determine, those items which directors determine and the history of the investment will also be reviewed to ensure routine day-to-day matters that are delegated to the projects compliance with the Groups social and ethical policies.
general manager and his or her team.
All acquisitions made during the year were subject to these Examples of initiatives in the year: reviews and checks and no material matters were identied.
Rather than being project-specic, our governance policies Governance and procedures have been implemented across the project portfolio.
This includes standing agenda items such as In seeking new investments, the Investment Adviser normally Directors conicts of interest which are discussed and seeks a minimum board representation on the underlying recorded in the company register at each project company investment company, with appropriate voting rights and Board meeting.
If any exist, these are discussed and a reserved matters to ensure it will be possible to manage the solution agreed and minuted.
investment and achieve the projected returns.
It is unlikely that a new investment will be made where this level of control and With the enactment of the UK Bribery Act 2010, we have inuence is not achievable.
In the year to 31 March 2012 all developed appropriate polices and made sure that these are investment opportunities assessed came with appropriate adopted by all project companies the Group is investing in.
We have taken this further in requesting that partner Directors HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 61
