Business Review Sustainability overview Our vision of a sustainable tobacco business is one that manages the impact of its operations and products responsibly today and prepares for a future in which it continues to create value for shareholders as well as being in the best interest of other stakeholders.
Our approach to sustainability Stakeholder engagement We were the first tobacco company to publish a social report and Our stakeholders include investors, NGOs, regulators, suppliers, our approach to sustainability has been reviewed and refined ever the scientific and public health communities, consumers, since.
Our sustainability agenda today focuses on the five areas of employees, local communities, customers retailers and harm reduction, marketplace, supply chain, environment and distributors and sustainability opinion leaders.
In short, anyone people and culture all of which we describe in this section, who is impacted by, or can impact upon, our business operations highlighting our key priorities and issues.
is a stakeholder of British American Tobacco.
In 2012, we began work on a brand new sustainability agenda that Engaging with our stakeholders helps us to understand their increases our ambition and better measures our impacts.
The key concerns and therefore to respond to them appropriately.
It gives areas of our current sustainability agenda will continue to be us valuable feedback on our policies, procedures and ways of important, but we want to focus more specifically on the issues working, so that we can continually improve them.
It provides us that have the greatest bearing on society.
We will be working with with opportunities to put our views across, helping our stakeholders to develop our plans and we will report on this in our stakeholders understand our positions.
Materiality Sustainability reporting Over the years, we have always focused our sustainability We are also changing the way we report this year away from a reporting on those issues of the greatest significance to our single annual Sustainability Report towards a more integrated business and our stakeholders.
However, in 2007, we began taking approach across our Annual Report and our corporate website, a more systematic approach to identifying those issues.
a review of our companies stakeholder dialogue sessions since 2001, we drew up a list of key topics and grouped them into We are still producing a Sustainability Summary report, published categories to help us establish which were the most significant.
at the same time as this Annual Report, outlining our 2012 performance and key issues.
We will also be producing more The materiality process involved internal consultation with regional teams and senior functional managers in relevant areas, focused sustainability communications, including two issueas well as the Management Board and the Board CSR Committee.
specific reports later in 2013 to provide stakeholders with more Finally, we discussed a refined list of key topics with sustainability in-depth information on the topics that interest them most.
opinion leaders and relevant NGOs.
The end result was the You will find specific performance indicators relating to our identification of our current focus areas: harm reduction, sustainability focus areas within the main strategic review in marketplace, supply chain, environment and people and culture.
Detailed performance data for 2012 is available at We continue to review our materiality process each year and, in www.
You can also read more 2013, this review will support our work in redefining our about our activities and view our sustainability video online sustainability agenda.
Sustainability assurance statement from Ernst & Young Some of the data used in the Strategic review in this Report has been reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP as part of their process for providing assurance of British American Tobaccos sustainability reporting for 2012.
This includes data on pages 19-22 relating to environmental performance, health and safety, our employee opinion survey Your Voice scores and diversity.
You can read Ernst & Youngs full assurance statement at www.
22 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Harm reduction Environment We know tobacco products pose real and serious health risks and We are working to reduce our environmental impacts as we aim the only way to avoid these risks is not to use them.
But many for stretching 2030 and 2050 carbon reduction targets.
adults choose to smoke, so our top priority continues to be In 2012, we also developed new five-year targets for CO e, energy 2 working towards reducing these risks and making available a and water use, as well as year-on-year targets for range of less risky tobacco and nicotine-based alternatives.
These targets can be viewed online at www.
com Our research and development programme is focusing on tobacco sustainability data, where you can also find more details harm reduction and we are exploring a range of reduced-risk of our performance in 2012 against our key measures.
This includes a nicotine inhalation To help achieve our challenging new targets, we will be rolling out product being prepared for launch in the UK by our subsidiary a number of energy and CO e reduction projects in 2013, and will 2 Nicoventures and exploring innovative electronic cigarette continue to explore renewable and low carbon energy options for technologies through our recent acquisition of CN Creative.
We will also be conducting detailed assessments Our work with scientists and public health professionals aims to of long-term water supply and demand requirements in the secure widespread support for tobacco harm reduction, including high-risk places we operate in.
the regulatory changes needed to support bringing reduced-risk products to market.
Marketplace People and culture We are proud of the way we do business and we aim always to be open Our reputation as a leading employer helps us stand out in an and honest about our views and activities within the marketplace.
increasingly competitive international employment market, and our people are key to delivering our strategy.
Like any business, we want to grow our market share.
But we want to do this by encouraging existing adult smokers to choose our Our focus is on: driving high performance: developing the next products over those of our competitors, not by trying to increase generation of leaders: valuing the diversity of our employees: the number of people who smoke or how much they smoke.
encouraging and rewarding entrepreneurial behaviour: and creating an engaging culture where individuals and teams Given the serious negative health impacts of tobacco products, can be successful.
we support balanced regulation and we expect high standards of corporate conduct among those who produce, distribute, market Providing a safe place to work, protecting our employees and sell them.
wellbeing and listening to their views are also fundamental.
We want a stretching and supportive culture founded on personal To achieve this we focus on three key areas: engaging with commitment and responsibility that attracts, engages and retains stakeholders on industry regulation: responsible marketing the most talented and diverse people.
and preventing underage access: and fighting the black market in tobacco.
Supply chain We rely on a complex but critical supply chain and we need it to be fit for the future.
We are using our influence to improve SUSTAINABILITY sustainability from crop to consumer.
We manage the impacts of our business through our own Why it activities and those of our supply chain.
Our environmental management systems meet best international standards and we matters SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY 2012 developed our supply chain sustainability strategy with the help of our internal and external stakeholders.
We dont own tobacco farms, but we provide agronomy support through our extension services to over 100,000 directly contracted farmers.
Our Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production programme encourages continual improvement of the social and environmental performance of the suppliers we buy tobacco leaf from.
com sustainability British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 23
