Corporate Governance Corporate social responsibility CSR Committee Summary Terms of Reference The CSR Committee is responsible for: Current members Karen fide Segundo Chairman reviewing and making appropriate recommendations to the Christine Morin-Postel Board as regards the Companys management of CSR and Sir Nicholas Scheele the conduct of business in accordance with the Statement of Dr Richard Tubb with effect from 28 January 2013 Business Principles: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups strategy for, and management of, significant social, Attendance at meetings in 2012 environmental and reputational issues: Name Attended Eligible to attend reviewing and monitoring the Groups plans for, and progress towards, business sustainability: and Karen fide Segundo 4 4 2 Ann Godbehere 2 2 monitoring the effectiveness of the CSR governance process.
1 Christine Morin-Postel 2 2 The Committees terms of reference are available at 2 Dr Gerry Murphy 1 2 www.
2 Kieran Poynter 2 2 1,3 Sir Nicholas Scheele 2 2 Committee evaluation The Committee considered a report prepared by the Company Notes: Secretary on the effectiveness of the Committee as assessed 1 Christine Morin-Postel and Sir Nicholas Scheele became members with during the evaluation of the Board in 2012.
While the Committee effect from 26 April 2012. was considered to be functioning well, a number of action points 2 Ann Godbehere, Dr Gerry Murphy and Kieran Poynter ceased to be were identified: members on 26 April 2012.
3 Sir Nicholas Scheele will cease to be a member on 25 April 2013 upon his Action points retirement as a Non-Executive Director.
Committee focus and forward agenda: Less focus on in-depth Dr Gerry Murphy was unable to attend one meeting of the CSR Committee country presentations and increased focus on regulation and harm due to a conflicting business engagement.
reduction the Committee also finalised its forward agendas for The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Management Board members 2013 in light of these new areas of focus.
responsible for Corporate and Regulatory Affairs and Global Operations regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
Peer review: A review of how the Company compares to its industry peers in terms of delivery and reporting of its CSR agenda this is scheduled for 2013.
The CSR Committee is authorised to seek the information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Committee composition: The addition of a member with scientific Director or member of management, and all employees are expected background would augment the Committees skillset Dr Richard to cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
It is Tubb was appointed to the Committee in January 2013. authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent professional advice and secure the attendance of CSR governance outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers The Committee is supported at regional and local levels through this necessary.
combined audit and CSR committees.
The structure supports the The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent embedding of CSR and sustainability principles across the Group meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board and allows performance against those principles to be monitored.
receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers The regional audit and CSR committees meet three times annually, and they follow a standard agenda, in order that materials and considered by the Committee are available to any Director who is not a member, should they wish to receive them.
issues that are presented and raised at local and regional level may feed into Board level discussions and vice versa.
64 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Adherence to the Groups International Marketing Standards Key activities of the CSR IMS and the recommendation for adoption by the Board of Committee in 2012 the new International Marketing Principles, which replace the IMS and reflect developments in marketing, technology, The CSR Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2012, regulation and stakeholder expectations.
including a meeting held at the end of February to review and A review of the current third term of the Biodiversity give final approval to the Companys annual Sustainability Partnership with three non-governmental organisations Report.
Other items considered by the Committee included: the Tropical Biology Association, Earthwatch and Fauna & Flora International focusing on biodiversity in agricultural CSR governance landscapes and the ecosystems on which they depend in key Feedback and update reports from the regional audit and areas where the Group sources leaf.
CSR committees and consideration of CSR-related internal Adherence to the Groups global approach to youth smoking audit reports and recommendations, including in relation to prevention YSP, a review of the list of targeted markets for the organisation of the Groups approach to environmental, YSP focus and of YSP-related activities.
A review of the Groups corporate social investment activities A continuing review of the potential reputational impact and plans for new guidelines on the focus of spend.
arising from incidents of non-compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct.
Sustainability planning and reporting Central and local stakeholder dialogue activities during CSR policies and compliance 2012 and plans for dialogue activities in 2013.
Potential risks in the countries where the Group does A review of the 2011 Sustainability Report, including a business that are of potential concern from a human summary of external feedback and endorsements, Ernst & rights perspective and the measures and controls in Young LLPs Assurance Management report and approval place to mitigate those risks.
for the Groups future approach to sustainability reporting.
Environmental, health and safety measures, including An assessment of the progress made against the 2011 consideration of the 2012 performance data, to promote sustainability goals and commitments.
a safety behaviour culture throughout the Group, the The re-engagement of Ernst & Young LLP to provide recommendation for adoption by the Board of a revised assurance services for a further one-year period.
Group Environmental Policy and the setting of new environmental targets.
Group sustainability agenda Statement of Business Principles The Groups sustainability agenda, based on feedback from The Groups Statement of Business Principles sets out the stakeholders, aims to build value for shareholders and other expectations for the responsible management of the Groups stakeholders by addressing our social, environmental and business.
It was developed in 2002 in consultation with economic impacts.
This concept of sustainable value underpins stakeholders, supported by the Institute of Business Ethics.
all of the Groups sustainability activities.
The Statement comprises three principles Mutual Benefit, Responsible Product Stewardship and Good Corporate Conduct The sustainability agenda is an integral part of delivering and 18 Core Beliefs that explain in more detail what each the Group strategy and focuses on five key impact areas: principle means for the Group.
Harm reduction: Striving to bring commercially viable, consumer acceptable reduced-risk products to market: Human rights Marketplace: Upholding high standards of corporate conduct The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries in which within our marketplace: it operates and in this context, notes the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in their current form.
Our approach to Environment: Actively addressing the impact of the Groups human rights draws on the OECD Guidelines, in addition to the business on the natural environment: UN Declaration of Human Rights and further information in this Supply chain: Working for positive social, environmental respect is provided in our Sustainability Summary and at and economic impacts in the Groups supply chain: and www.
People and culture: Working to ensure we have the right people and culture to meet the Groups goals.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 65 Corporate Governance Corporate social responsibility continued Sustainability reporting Corporate social investment The Company has produced independently assured reports since The Company recognises the role of business as a corporate 2001 and believes this long history of reporting demonstrates a citizen and Group companies have long supported local serious commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainability.
The Groups approach to corporate social investment CSI is to regard it as an end in itself, The Company was the first tobacco company to begin reporting rather than as a means of promotion, and Group companies have on social, environmental and economic performance.
From the always worked to maintain good relationships with the outset, a robust and rigorous approach has been applied to the communities where they operate.
Groups reporting processes at both Group and local level.
This included following the AA1000 Assurance Standard and Global Guidance on selecting, managing and evaluating major CSI Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines and includes independent activities is provided to Group companies, however, it is recognised assurance of all reports and engagement with stakeholders that local community needs are as diverse as the communities through independently facilitated stakeholder dialogue sessions.
As a result, within both the parameters of this guidance and the guidelines on focus of spend as agreed This approach has allowed the Company to meet greater demands during 2012, CSI is managed at a local level to ensure the for corporate transparency.
Dialogue has helped the Company to most appropriate projects are supported.
take stakeholder views into account, enabling better business decisions.
Independent assurance has been essential in supporting In addition, the major activities currently supported by the Company this commitment to continuous improvement.
are the British American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership and the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation.
In 2013, the approach to reporting will change with a shift away from an annual Sustainability Report to producing shorter, more Charitable contributions focused sustainability communications throughout the year.
This Payments for charitable purposes in 2012 amounted to includes a Sustainability Summary, published alongside the 2012 11.6 million 2011: 13.7 million, 1.8 million of which Annual Report, covering the Companys performance and key was paid in the UK 2011: 1.9 million.
issues for the business and stakeholders.
This will be supported by the publication of periodic issue-specific reports from 2013 onwards to provide stakeholders with more in-depth information on the topics that are of most interest to them.
This will be complemented by additional sustainability information on the Groups corporate website, www.
External recognition In 2012, British American Tobacco was included in both the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indexes for the 11th year running.
The Indexes track the economic, environmental and social performance of leading  companies worldwide.
The Companys overall score was 88%, maintaining our place as industry leader.
The Company was ranked 5th overall out of 127 European companies for addressing biodiversity impacts in a new report by European ratings agency, Vigeo, scoring highest in the efficiency of measures category.
We featured in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, with a score of 86%.
This index highlights those companies in the FTSE 350 Index that have shown the most professional approach to managing and disclosing their climate change impacts.
The Company was ranked in the top quartile of companies in Transparency Internationals Transparency in Corporate Reporting: Assessing the Worlds Largest Companies study.
We were also ranked second in the FTSE 350 for our approach to sustainability assurance in the annual Carbon Smart ranking of assurance practices, and were highly commended at  annual Building Public Trust Awards for People Reporting in the FTSE 100.
66 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
