32 Risk and control environment The risks we face Market and regulatory environment Our risk appetite ICAP is an interdealer broker and provider New financial regulations may potentially The board monitors the risk profile of of post trade risk mitigation, messaging and redefine some aspects of interdealer the Group using eight risk categories: data services.
Consequently it has a very broking and create new types of operational, liquidity, strategic, credit, legal different risk profile from that of a bank, competition between interdealer brokers and compliance, market, reputational and investment bank, asset manager, insurance and other market intermediaries for financial.
The three principal risks of the company or hedge fund.
ICAP is not execution business.
Group are considered as operational, required to commit material amounts of liquidity and strategic.
capital in the conduct of its day-to-day In the US, the Dodd-Frank Act requires business: the profit and cash flows of the certain classes of derivatives to be on The Group acknowledges that it will business are driven by the level of activity designated contract markets or SEF.
be subject to residual risk in pursuit of of its customers and do not depend on the achieving its strategic objectives even after valuation of its assets and liabilities.
ICAP In Europe, there are similar proposals in mitigating actions.
Setting and monitoring does not have material exposures to market MiFID II that will mean certain standardised risk appetite the willingness to accept a risk or long-duration credit risk.
derivatives will be traded on exchanges, level of risk is used as a key indicator which organised trading facilities or multilateral the board uses to monitor progress against The macroeconomic stresses simulated trading facilities.
by regulators of the banking and insurance industries, for instance, do not create The precise scope and impact of these ICAP uses a risk appetite framework material risks for ICAP directly but could proposals on market operating models to set appetite and tolerances for risk in potentially have an adverse affect on are yet to be defined.
each category, including qualitative and revenue.
ICAP is primarily commission quantitative factors.
earning and its financial performance was ICAP already operates ten MTFs in Europe largely unaffected by the credit crunch, and is preparing to operate a SEF in the The Groups process for setting risk or the crisis that followed the Lehman US once the rules are finalised.
ICAP also appetite includes an annual assessment of bankruptcy in 2008.
This is because the engages heavily with the clearing agents the Group strategy, analysis of known and Group does not carry credit sensitive assets on behalf of itself and its customers.
The potential emerging risks, and the evaluation on its balance sheet for any of length of regulatory push for further standardisation of these against the current risk appetite time and does not leverage its capital.
and clearing of OTC derivatives is in line with of the Group.
This framework includes an assessment of: The Group is proactive in its assessment the Groups risk behavioural trait: and management of emerging risks internal and external influences: and opportunities within the dynamic loss events internal and external : environment ICAP operates in.
Given income statement projections: ICAPs leading position as an existing the capital held: and operator of MTFs in OTC derivatives and other business intelligence for example, its balanced portfolio of voice, electronic market and analysts reports.
and post trade risk and information businesses, the Group is well positioned to The Group tracks and monitors its risk profile take advantage of the proposed legislative, and a process exists to report and escalate regulatory changes and emerging markets.
breaches should risk appetite be exceeded.
The Groups risks, risk appetite and mitigants are described on pages 33 to 35.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and control environment 33 The three principal risk categories Operational risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation Operational risk is the risk that the Group may ICAP endeavours to minimise losses due to A control framework exists within which risks and suffer a financial loss or reputational damage operational failures through mitigating controls controls are identified, assessed and monitored.
directly or indirectly from inadequate or failed applied to its systems, processes and people.
The Key risk indicators are reported to the board internal processes, human error, systems failure Group accepts that even after mitigating controls, through the Audit and Risk Committee, the or external events.
Operational risk is intrinsic residual risk remains.
in all of the Groups diverse activities.
The most The Group has for many years invested heavily in significant Group operational risks are: infrastructure to mitigate its own risks.
Additionally extended failure of IT networks, systems the Group is a leading provider of risk mitigation or communication: services as part of its service offering.
broker error: internal or external events affecting Formal business continuity plans and appropriate buildings or people: remote data back-up and disaster recovery loss of critical staff: facilities are available for each of the Groups inadequately managed projects including NBIs: key locations.
activity beyond permitted mandate: and inaccurate booking, settlement or clearing of transactions.
Liquidity risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation Liquidity risk is the risk that any part of the Liquidity risk is monitored and reported using The Group takes a multi-dimensional approach Group does not have sufficient financial various metrics to ensure that, under business to liquidity risk management.
resources available to enable it to meet its as usual and stress-tested scenarios, the Group There is a centralised provision of contingency financial obligations as they fall due.
is able to meet its financial obligations.
funding for its trading entities.
Additionally each A significant proportion of the Groups earnings entity has access to appropriate liquidity.
are from invoiced commission earning businesses, The board regularly reviews the liquidity demands including name give-up brokerage, post trade of the Group through the GRACC.
risk services and information services.
However, as a result of providing services to its customers in Group risk and treasury functions share global matched principal transactions and execution and day-to-day liquidity risk management executed by some limited instances of clearing in exchangethe individual businesses.
traded products, the Group can be required to The Group seeks to diversify its funding sources place collateral and margin at clearing houses of and maintains an investment grade rating from which it is a direct member and at third party Fitch and Moodys.
clearing providers who act on the Groups behalf.
Strategic risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation ICAP is exposed to strategic risk through its ICAP aims to be the infrastructure provider to ICAP maintains constant dialogue with its services becoming superseded by competitor the worlds wholesale financial markets, in both customers and regulatory oversight bodies solutions, changes in the Groups customer execution and post trade.
In order to maintain in order to leverage environmental and changing base, changes in market structure or failure and develop this position ICAP is willing to explore customers needs.
ICAP is therefore able to to appropriately implement strategic projects.
organic growth, acquisitions and potential alliances provide and enhance services that are: to remain relevant to its customers.
relevant: scalable: flexible: and have realistic opportunities for growth and longevity.
All new business opportunities go through a wide ranging and rigorous process and adhere to due diligence policies.
The Groups diverse business model allows ICAP to adapt and mitigate against changing demands, habits or the evolution of the environment.
The economic model of the Group, particularly within voice, means the cost base largely flexes with earnings, thereby mitigating the impact of any loss of market share in those services.
34 Risk and control environment continued Secondary risk categories Credit risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation As an interdealer broker, ICAP does not extend Counterparty credit risk is intrinsic in all the Processes and controls are in place to limit and long-term credit nor does it take proprietary Groups activities.
Although most prevalent in monitor the Groups exposures.
However, counterparty failure to fulfil the matched principal business, this risk is present but are not limited to : its obligations may result in ICAP having: in all businesses where ICAP may suffer loss if a client on-boarding and limit setting monitoring an open market position: counterparty does not perform on its obligations.
process: possible liquidity implications: ICAP manages credit risk limits for each undertaking transactions on a delivery versus unpaid receivables: or counterparty based on indicators of credit quality payment basis: loss of access to, or actual loss of funds that the internal ratings in order to limit the potential loss near real-time monitoring of counterparty limits Group has deposited with financial institutions.
the Group could suffer as a result of a counterparty and their utilisation on a global basis: and default.
ICAP accepts, however, that even after regional accounts receivable teams monitoring mitigating controls, there will be residual risk that non-recovery of commission and fee income.
Legal and compliance risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation Legal risk is defined as the risk of a loss of legal, The Group seeks to anticipate and remain The management of compliance and legal risk is, human or financial integrity, reputation or capital in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, in the first instance, the responsibility of senior as the result of government action, legislation, regulations and industry standards.
The Group commercial management as supported by the contract or other laws and regulations.
operates in a complex business environment and Group legal and compliance functions.
accepts that disputes will occur from time to time, Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory ICAP maintains an internal legal department, which and that contentious matters may therefore arise sanctions, material financial loss, or loss to acts as an independent advisory and investigation in the course of conducting its business.
reputation which may be suffered as a result function and is directed to both enable and defend of the Groups failure to comply with laws, the Groups strategic aims and business.
The regulations, rules, related self-regulatory processes of the legal function aim to ensure that organisation standards and codes of conduct there is appropriate advice available to the Group, applicable to its activities.
that the Group has clear rights and obligations in documentation and has timely access to appropriate external legal resources.
The Group maintains an independent compliance function.
Compliance risk is mitigated by way of the ICAP compliance risk management framework, which is operated globally.
Market risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation ICAP does not take active market risk in the pursuit ICAP, through its FSA investment firm consolidation Policies, procedures and controls are in place to of any of its business objectives.
waiver, is prohibited from proprietary trading.
reduce the likelihood of positions arising, including the monitoring and requesting of intra and Any incidental exposure to market risk is end-of-day exposures.
monitored by risk management and reported to senior management.
It is policy to liquidate any exposure to open positions as soon as it is reasonably practical.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and control environment 35 Reputational risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation ICAP benefits from its reputation for integrity ICAPs business is predicated on building and The primary mitigation of reputational risk is and its position as the worlds leading interdealer maintaining relationships with its customers, through active management of other risks.
broker and provider of post trade risk and lenders, investors, regulators and the media.
There ICAP considers the impact of its overall reputation information services.
Any diminution in its is therefore limited appetite for reputational risk.
and seeks to differentiate itself from its competitors, reputation could therefore have a material impact its customers, shareholders, other stakeholders and on its performance.
Reputational risk is a second the media.
order risk that would be the consequence of the materialisation of other risks, such as: The controls applied across the other risk categories a series of operational failures: reduce the likelihood of reputational damage.
unforeseen financial losses: strategic failures: legal and compliance risks: and any negative reputational damage to the wholesale financial markets.
Financial risk Description Risk appetite Mitigation Currency risk ICAP is exposed to both interest rate and currency The board approves financial risk management The Group presents its consolidated financial risk through the nature and geographically diverse policies through the GRACC with the objective statements in pound sterling and conducts locations in which it operates.
of minimising income statement volatility.
business in a number of other currencies, ICAP operates in accordance with its hedging Further details of the Groups interest rate and principally the dollar and the euro.
Consequently policy to manage interest rate and currency risks currency risk hedging strategy and the level of the Group is exposed to currency risk due to within board approved limits.
cover in place at 31 March 2012 are contained in exchange rate movements note 10. note 10 to the financial statements.
Details of the This policy contains a number of rules on governing Interest rate risk Groups sensitivity to changes in interest rates and the use of derivatives and hedging instruments.
The Group finances itself through a combination currency rates are set out in note 10 to the of fixed and floating rate debt obligations and financial statements.
maintains cash on its balance sheet to meet a combination of local regulatory capital rules, clearing house deposits and other commercial requirements, including margin calls which arise through the provision of clearing services in certain markets to brokerage customers.
