36 Corporate responsibility Our business As a key participant in the wholesale structured to ensure no more than a ICAP employs more than 5,100 people financial markets, we believe that ICAPs minimal risk remains outstanding at the worldwide, an increase on the previous year success contributes to the economies in time of payment.
As a result, there is no of almost 200, mostly as a result of the which we operate by helping companies requirement for deferral conditions to be expansion of existing key businesses and and organisations manage and mitigate attached to commission payments.
Our people development ICAPs ability to attract and retain the ICAP fulfils its corporate responsibilities ICAP is committed to providing and highest quality people and leverage their in a number of different ways.
For our promoting equal employment and intellectual capital is one of the key factors shareholders we aim to produce superior advancement opportunities and an driving the success of our business.
As the returns over the long term.
For our customers environment that ensures tolerance Group has expanded, ICAP has attracted we aim to provide products and services and respect for all employees.
ICAPs policy people with a broad range of skills.
The which, in turn, will enable them to create is that no employee, contract or temporary brokers and their managers still comprise value.
For our employees, we aim to provide worker will be treated less favourably, the largest group in the employee base an environment that is intellectually victimised or harassed on the grounds and have very specific skills.
They are highly challenging, motivating and supportive.
of disability, gender, marital or civil entrepreneurial, dynamic, team-spirited partnership status, race, nationality, colour, individuals with extremely strong As an interdealer broker, our principal ethnicity, religion or similar philosophical networking and interpersonal skills with the contribution is to facilitate trading in the belief, sexual orientation, age or any ability to excel in a pressurised environment.
wholesale financial markets to help ensure distinction other than merit.
the efficient functioning of the global The Groups remuneration policy is markets.
Our voice and electronic The development and training of talented performance based and is structured to platforms source liquidity and enable price individuals is an area of focus for ICAP.
be both consistent with, and to promote, discovery for our customers.
The move We aim to provide an environment that is effective risk management in respect of towards hybrid and electronic trading motivating and supportive.
During the past ICAPs activities.
Further details of the platforms in OTC markets, in which ICAP year we have focused on ensuring that remuneration policy, now applicable to the is a leader, together with our post trade we continue to recruit high calibre people Group, are provided in the remuneration risk and information business, helps with the relevant skills and experience to report set out on pages 56 to 64. make markets more resilient, safer and develop the business despite increasingly more transparent.
Our ICAP continues to monitor employee leadership team also works to maximise efficiency and productivity closely.
Broker compensation is directly linked to commission which varies from desk to desk.
Commission arrangements are The Cure Parkinsons Trust project A donation from ICAPs Charity Day has many types of neurons.
The trial involves a enabled The Cure Parkinsons Trust to fund pioneering technology to enable the precise a revolutionary and potentially life changing delivery of GDNF into the brain, with the clinical trial conducted at Frenchay Hospital, potential to reverse the disease process.
This involves the growth factor GDNF The Cure Parkinsons Trust and the Parkinsons Glial Cell Line-derived Neurotrophic Factor community are awaiting the results of the study.
which in humans has promoted the survival of ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate responsibility 37 The increase in regulation within the Health and safety As a service orientated business, the major financial services industry globally places ICAP has a health and safety policy which sources of greenhouse gases arise from the more demands on many of our employees.
is approved by the board and owned by the running of our global network of offices and Our organisational values include respect Group Chief Operating Officer.
Regional the travel commitments of our employees.
for control and training in this area has health and safety committees oversee We continue to pursue a reduction in our been increased.
All greenhouse gas emissions by the use of employees have a responsibility for ensuring more efficient lighting and air conditioning in As global market leaders within the a healthy and safe working environment.
our offices, when moving offices, a focus on financial services industry ICAP The great majority of ICAP employees work more environmentally friendly buildings, the continues to maintain high standards in an office environment and therefore there recycling of waste and by the purchase of professionalism within a regulated are no significant areas of risk to report.
where possible of electricity from renewable environment.
We continue to make use of our our mandatory compliance training is Suppliers video conferencing facilities but, as a result delivered to our employees globally We rely on a number of key suppliers to of the expansion of our global footprint, our and they are provided with the latest help us carry out our business.
We have travel commitments have also increased regulatory guidelines.
procedures in place to ensure purchasing during the year.
decisions balance cost against other Training has been delivered across many factors including service quality, global As in previous years, the Group worked with areas including anti-money laundering, reach and resilience.
Carbon Neutral Limited, an environmental bribery, corruption and market abuse.
consultancy, to estimate the residual Environment emissions of the Group in terms of carbon All employees complete their e-learning, The Groups environmental policy is dioxide equivalents.
Worldwide, we estimate and training records are monitored to approved by the board and owned by that the Group emits the equivalent of ensure compliance.
the Group Chief Operating Officer.
ICAPs 29.0 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide operations cause minimal environmental or 6.0 tonnes per employee Graduate recruitment impact.
However it does, wherever possible, 2011 4.4 tonnes per annum.
We welcomed 59 graduates into our take into account the direct and indirect organisation as part of our 2011 12 environmental impact of its activities.
As anticipated, with the growth of our award-winning, global graduate recruitment business into new markets and the scheme.
Launched in 2006, ICAPs The key policy principles are: consequential establishment of new offices, entry-level programmes deliver a steady ensuring environmental risks are properly our carbon footprint has increased during flow of developing talent into the business.
identified, prioritised and managed in an the year.
As in previous years, we will be We also offer a range of internship and appropriate and timely way: mitigating our total carbon emissions by placement programmes to ensure we ensuring compliance with all relevant investment in carbon reducing projects.
attract the best and the brightest early on.
environmental legislation in the countries Successful interns are offered permanent in which we operate: positions on our graduate scheme.
Our continuing to reduce our carbon graduate and internship programmes cover footprint with the objective of becoming the breadth of our global business.
carbon neutral: and raising employees awareness of environmental issues and encouraging environmentally responsible behaviour.
We have battled passionately to ensure this study proceeds and it seems fitting that our determination and commitment to succeed was mirrored by the workforce at ICAP in their quest to raise as much money as possible on their Charity Day.
Thank you ICAP for making an enormous difference to the work we do, the event was nothing short of a triumph.
Tom Isaacs Co-founder The Cure Parkinsons Trust 38 Corporate responsibility continued ICAP Charity Day 89.35 million raised since 1993 Watch the video: Visit our Facebook page: Read the tweets: www.
com icapcharityday Im really impressed with this idea, how theyve carried it through, and how they continue to do it.
Meryl Streep, award-winning actress Partners in Health, Equality Now, Women for Women International ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate responsibility 39 ICAPs one-day-a-year contribution ICAP Charity Day came into being in 1993, Thanks to ICAP employees, our delivers to hundreds of charities as a unique way of making a significant suppliers, customers and charities which in turn help thousands of difference to charities by giving away all of and their patrons, ICAP Charity Day people improve the lives of millions our revenue and commissions on one day since its beginning has helped more of others.
Last year every ICAP office each year.
The global impact has been than 1,000 worthwhile causes worldwide.
took part and we supported over extraordinary.
In December 2012 we will 200 charities.
A record-breaking celebrate 20 years of ICAP Charity Day.
Read more online: 12.75 million was raised.
com ICAPs generous donation has been used and will be used to help children recover from the trauma brought on by the earthquake and tsunami.
Its a long road ahead for so many of these children and their families, On 11 March 2011 the devastating earthquake and thanks to ICAP, World and tsunami struck Japan leaving nearly 20,000 Vision is able to partner dead or missing.
ICAP responded with a donation to World Vision to help traumatised Japanese children with them at each step who lost family and friends, as well as their homes.
Many children have suffered psychologically from Mark Bulpitt, Head of Emergencies, the experience.
These vulnerable children need protection and reassurance as well as practical World Vision care.
With ICAPs donation, World Vision has set up Child Friendly Spaces where children are looked after and helped, as well as having a safe place to learn and play.
The most amazing thing Ive seen today is the amount of people who have turned up in order to give back.
There are people out there who live horrible lives and its very important that you use your position in order to ICAPs support of War Child will reduce poverty and increase protection for children and women give them a better life.
working in informal employment in Afghanistan, Ricky Hatton MBE, retired British reducing child labour and increasing access to professional boxer, War Child education for children who are working on the streets, or being exploited.
42 Directors report continued Directors profiles The Group is led by an experienced board of directors consisting of a non-executive Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer, two further executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
Key to membership of committees Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Charles Gregson Michael Spencer Non-executive Chairman, appointed in 2001.
Group Chief Executive Officer, appointed in 1999.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The chairman of each committee is Skills and experience Skills and experience Michael Spencer was the founder of Intercapital highlighted in black.
Between 1978 and 1998 Charles Gregson in 1986 and became Chairman and Chief Executive was responsible for the Garban businesses that in October 1998, following the Exco Intercapital demerged from United Business Media plc in 1998 merger.
Michael, together with IPGL and its and then merged with Intercapital in 1999 to form subsidiary companies, is a substantial shareholder ICAP.
He was previously chief executive of PR in the Company.
He is chairman of the GEMG.
Newswire Association Inc and served on the boards Michael stepped down from his role as Treasurer of United Business Media plc, Provident Financial of the Conservative Party in October 2010.
He plc, MAI plc and International Personal Finance plc.
holds a degree in Physics from Oxford University.
Charles holds a degree in History and Law from Cambridge University and qualified as a solicitor.
Other appointments Michael is chairman of IPGL and he is on the boards Other appointments of many of IPGLs investments.
He is the senior Charles is the non-executive chairman of CPP Group independent non-executive director of Tungsten Plc and St Jamess Place plc.
He is a non-executive Corporation plc.
director of Caledonia Investments plc.
John Nixon Iain Torrens Group Executive Director Americas, Group Finance Director, appointed in 2010. appointed in 2008.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Iain Torrens joined ICAP in 2006 as group John Nixon has management oversight and treasurer and became group financial controller in responsibility for fixed income ICAP Electronic 2008.
Before joining ICAP, he worked in a number Broking and the Americas voice broking businesses.
of senior financial roles for CP Ships Limited and Prior to his appointment to the board in 2008, John Cookson Group plc.
Iain is a member of the GEMG had served from 1998 to 2002 as a non-executive and the GOC and is chairman of the GRACC.
He has been a member of the GEMG since Iain holds a degree in Banking and Finance from 2003 when he had responsibility for strategic the University of Wales and a postgraduate acquisitions.
John has extensive experience in the diploma from the University of Ulster.
He is a interdealer broking industry.
He was previously the Chartered Accountant, Corporate Treasurer Chief Executive Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, and a Chartered Secretary.
now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, London and New York.
John holds a degree in Commerce from Queens University, Ontario.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Directors profiles 43 John Sievwright Diane Schueneman Hsieh Fu Hua Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, and chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, appointed in 2010. appointed in 2011. appointed to the board in 2009.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Diane Schueneman was previously an independent Hsieh Fu Hua served as President and a director John Sievwright was Chief Operating Officer, consultant to the US Internal Revenue Service of Temasek Holdings in Singapore until January International, for Bank of America Merrill Lynch Commissioner for McKinsey & Company.
He was formerly Chief Executive Officer formerly Merrill Lynch, based in New York, Tokyo an extensive career at Bank of America Merrill and non-independent director of the Singapore and London.
He has also held a number of other Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch and until 2008 was Exchange from 2003 to 2009.
He is also senior positions at Merrill Lynch, including Chief Senior Vice President, Head of Global Infrastructure co-founder of and advisor to the PrimePartners Operating Officer, Global Markets and Investment Solutions and a member of the Executive Operating group of companies, a corporate and investment Banking, Head of Global Futures and Options and Committee.
During her career she has covered advisory business based in Singapore, and served Chief Administrative Officer for the Debt Markets fixed income sales, business management, as the Group Managing Director of BNP Prime and Global Equity Derivatives Divisions.
John holds operations, client services and technology.
Diane Peregrine Group, the Asian investment banking an MA degree in Accounting and Economics from previously served on two not-for-profit boards, arm of BNP a joint venture with PrimePartners.
the University of Aberdeen and is a member of the Year Up and National Cooperative Cancer Network Before forming PrimePartners in 1993, he headed Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland.
Foundation, and was on the advisory board of Morgan Grenfell Asia Holdings Pte Ltd which he United Bank for Africa Group.
Fu Hua holds a degree in Business Other appointments Administration from the University of Singapore.
John is the senior independent non-executive Other appointments director of FirstGroup plc and chairman of its Diane is an independent director of Penson Other appointments audit committee.
Worldwide Inc. Fu Hua is a non-executive director of United Overseas Bank Ltd and Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd.
He is also the non-executive chairman of Fullerton Fund Management.
Robert Standing Independent non-executive director, appointed in 2010.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience Robert Standing is a principal of London Diversified Fund Management which was founded within the JPMorgan group in 1995 and spun out in 2002.
Robert joined Chemical Bank in 1982, spending two years developing new products before joining the Capital Markets division in 1985.
Following acquisitions by JPMorgan, he worked in a range of roles before becoming Head of Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange for EMEA in 1998.
Robert is one of the founders of the Hedge Fund Standards Board.
He holds a degree in Engineering from Cambridge University.
Other appointments Robert is a director of London Diversified Fund Management UK Ltd.
