Corporate governance: Corporate Social Responsibility CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Business standards Limiting client losses development plans have been formulated to address these and It is therefore key to our success that we reinforce the need to We recognise the fundamental importance of a reputation for We have a number of service oerings that aim to limit the progress made will be monitored by department heads.
A treat all employees fairly, with dignity and without any unlawful honesty and transparency in the financial services industry, and client losses: for example, we oer clients the ability to further survey was commissioned in June 2012 and the Group has discrimination.
We are committed to creating a work environment commitment to these values is a cornerstone of our success.
The attach guaranteed stops to positions so that the maximum committed to run an annual employee engagement survey free of harassment and bullying, where everyone is treated with Group applies high standards across its businesses, and we also possible loss to the client is known at the outset of the trade.
support and adhere to high standards of corporate governance Additionally, our close-out monitor COM, which automatically as set out in the Corporate Governance Report and the statement liquidates client positions where their margin has been The Group is keen to support the continuing personal and The Group gives full consideration to applications for by the Directors in compliance with the Combined Code.
signicantly eroded, also aims to limit potential client losses.
professional training and development of its sta, and encourages employment from disabled persons, where the candidates At 31 May 2012 98.8% of all client accounts are either subject attendance on external and industry recognised training courses, particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with adequately Our commitment to high standards is embodied within each to guaranteed stops or the automatic COM procedure.
Further sponsors sta to undertake a programme of formal education and meeting the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees of the following service oerings and behaviours: details are set out in note 36 to the financial statements professional qualication, and often oers internal secondments.
become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or alternative The Group spent 409,000 on training in the financial year ending Commitment to Treating Customers Fairly TCF Protection of our clients data and funds 31 May 2012. position, and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
As set out in the business review, we are fully committed to We prioritise the security of our clients information and the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative and have funds and have achieved the ISO 27001 certicate for The Group is further committed to developing high-calibre Society developed a scorecard of measures to monitor how we treat Information Security employees through oering a graduate scheme in trading We are keen to encourage employees to engage in activities our clients We segregate all funds for individuals, whether required services and IT, and from September will further develop this that help their development and support local communities.
Central to the Groups TCF policy is the quality of our order by regulation or not oering through launching a finance graduate scheme.
For example, we match any funds employees have raised for execution.
We oer near-instantaneous execution, with sponsored events.
A summary of our charitable donations, around 99% of client orders accepted automatically.
We never Client services During the year, we have introduced a detailed career including the employee matched giving, is provided in the re-quote prices and, within our set margin of tolerance, we Impeccable client service is at the heart of our commitment to development plan at all levels of the organisation, dening roles Directors statutory report.
will accept orders even if the market moves.
Our innovative the responsible treatment of all our clients.
Our large team of and responsibilities at each career level, and also introduced a price-improvement technology enables customers to receive a highly-trained, dedicated client service sta delivers a professional mentoring program.
We also work with the Charities Aid Foundation CAF to allow better price if one becomes available as a trade is executed and responsive value-based approach to client service.
employees to operate a charity fund and contribute directly Employee involvement to selected charities from gross earnings directly from their Client support and education Our people We take pride in being an open, non-hierarchical organisation monthly pay.
We provide extensive educational resources for clients, The Group is rapidly growing and provides a fast-moving and with direct and open access amongst all teams and at all levels.
including enrolling new clients on our introductory education successful working environment.
The Group has over 1,000 The Chief Executive Ocer leads a quarterly management forum The Group not only continues to support charities through the programme, TradeSense, promoting responsible trading, and employees working in 14 countries globally.
Our employees which is recorded and broadcast to our overseas oces.
giving of money, but also through the provision of time and a wide range of client seminars and webinars, available online take pride in what we have achieved and have a strong sense resource.
Our absence management policy oers the opportunity and in person of belonging.
Employees participate directly in the success of the business for employees to take up voluntary work, for which we grant through the Groups performance-related bonus schemes and additional leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five Client suitability The Group appreciates that the quality of its employees is crucial employee share plans, and we regularly have around 35 to 40% of matched days per annual leave year.
We have a number of procedures to ensure that our products to the success of the business, and oers competitive packages to eligible employees participating in our share incentive plan.
Bonus reach the right audience and that our clients understand how our recognise past performance and retain key talent in the future.
The payments are based on a communal pool driven by the overall Additionally, the Group was this year proud to introduce a products work: Group pays performance-related bonuses to most sta and makes profitability of the company.
The pool is first apportioned by volunteering scheme with Volunteer Reading Help, a national Our products are not suitable for everyone.
It is for this reason awards under long-term incentive and value-sharing plans to key department, and then the discretionary payment is distributed to registered charity with 17 regional branches that gives one-tothat we apply strict rules to ensure that we only promote our personnel.
In addition, the opportunity to acquire shares under individuals, based upon their performance, by department heads.
one literacy support to children in primary schools in the most various share incentive plans has been made available to all UK, deprived areas of England.
Reading helpers volunteer once a products to the right audience.
We also apply strict rules to ensure that any promotion is clear, fair and not misleading, and Australian and US sta.
We also provide a range of other benets to Top employer week for an hour, and commit for a minimum of one year to work contains a balanced description of risks alongside the benets employees, including pension contributions, where in the UK the Our positive working culture was recognised when IG was named with the same children each week.
of our product Group contributes up to 10% of the employees basic salary to the one of Britains Top Employers for the fifth year running in 2012.
Before we allow clients to open an account, we will undertake employees pension, as long as the employee contributes 5% of The award, by the Corporate Research Foundation, was based We are further committed to expanding our volunteer oerings an assessment to determine whether our products are their salary if the employee chooses to contribute less than 5%, the on a strong performance in each of the surveyed categories: pay by signing up from Autumn 2012 to be a member of City Action, appropriate or suitable for the client in question.
This involves Group will contribute double the individual rate.
and benets, training and development, corporate culture, and a partnership scheme which enables City-based businesses to asking the client about their trading knowledge and experience particularly in career development.
share skills with community organisations and social enterprises and about their income and savings.
Based on the results of During the year the Group carried out an employee survey with in the City and neighbouring boroughs through volunteering.
this assessment, we may choose to provide the client with a a 58% response rate.
Of those who completed the survey, 75% Equality and diversity warning about the appropriateness of the account or we may said they were very happy or happy in their jobs, and the Group We are an equal opportunities employer and have extensive decline to open an account received a Net Promoter Score of 19, signicantly above the human resource policies in place to ensure that employees industry norm of 10.
For those areas where issues were noted, can expect to work in an environment free from discrimination and harassment.
78 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 79
