Sustainability We are committed to sustainable growth and aim to actively manage the social, ethical and environmental aspects of our business to deliver long-term, positive performance.
We take a holistic approach to sustainability across the business and aspire to integrate the requirements of our key stakeholders into decision-making processes, risk management and project planning.
Sustainability is important in driving a positive Business ethics corporate reputation amongst key stakeholder groups During 2012 we took steps to enhance our existing and underpins our strategy for growth.
We report on ethical management structure.
This included research sustainability using best practice methodology into ethical dilemmas that we may face with including the Global Reporting Index, DEFRA GHG responsible lending and transparent and fair terms factors for company reporting and the London and conditions.
More details on our sustainability programme and basis for reporting A substantial amount of work has been completed to can be found at www.
ensure these issues are managed effectively and we also focused on consolidating this into a refreshed Stakeholder engagement Code of Ethics.
The new code will be launched across During 2012, we have held stakeholder roundtables the business in 2013. in each of our markets, inviting groups such as regulators, trade and industry associations and Community investment non-governmental organisations NGOs focusing We have community investment programmes in each on finance or credit, responsible investment and of our markets with a key strategic focus on financial research.
Key themes discussed in 2012 included literacy.
Through local NGO partnerships we delivered financial inclusion, the role of IPF and our loans in the a number of initiatives.
We support and deliver community and the use of credit in promoting social financial education workshops across a number of and financial mobility.
We also communicate with key markets, coach representatives of NGOs to deliver stakeholders through one-to-one contact, employee financial literacy workshops, publicise financial literacy and agent forums, customer surveys and focus in the media and provide online tools for budget groups.
planning, such as a smartphone application in Romania.
We encourage employees, agents and customers to have a say in how funds are invested in our community activity.
We also promote employee motivation and skills development through a range of volunteering opportunities.
In 2012 our Group contribution to charities and community organisations was 0.9 million, representing 0.95% of pre-tax profit.
Our employees volunteered 18,000 hours of time during work hours and 33,000 hours overall.
During the year we also focused on using social media to engage with some of our key audiences.
In the Czech Republic for example, our Helping with Provident site allows customers and the Our Czech colleagues were involved general public to vote on the community projects in planting trees in the Jizera mountains that we support.
as part of a volunteering project.
14 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Business Review We have been recognised externally for our high standards and sustainable approach to doing business.
Responsible supply chain management Environmental management We recognise that in order to achieve sustainable We try to minimise our impact on the environment growth we need to manage our supply chain and and conserve natural resources.
We have set a series work with suppliers who share our values and adhere of carbon and natural resource-use reduction to our sustainability principles.
During 2012 we objectives, which we aim to achieve by the end of developed a new responsible supply chain 2013 using 2010 as a base year.
This includes management approach, which is tailored towards reducing the use of petrol, diesel, electricity and key industries, and will be used as part of the selection paper, and increasing the percentage of recycled process for all larger value contracts from early 2013. paper that we use.
In 2012 our carbon footprint, when normalised against customer numbers, reduced by 7% against 2011 levels.
2012 Awards We have been recognised externally for our high standards and sustainable approach to doing business in all our markets.
Our awards show we are a market-leading home credit business that is committed to customer care, our people and the local communities we serve.
FTSE4Good Best Workplace awards Gender Equity Model Ranked amongst the worlds best scoring Ranked the Best Workplace in Hungary For the third consecutive year, Provident financial services companies for our employing more than 1,000 people and in Mexico was certied with the Gender environment and social governance the Hungarian business was also ranked Equity Model MEG: 2003 in recognition ratings and demonstrating our commitment sixth Best Workplace in Central and of its equal opportunities polices.
Most ethical lender Customer Friendly Company award Golden Award for PR Excellence Our Czech business was reafrmed Provident in Poland was awarded Provident in Romania was recognised as the countrys most ethical financial a Customer Friendly Company award for its Bugetul Familiei the family budget institution by Clove k v tsni Man in Need, after meeting strict customer service Financial Education programme.
criteria, assessed by the Management Observatory Foundation.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 15
