o ov verview erview business review governance financial statements shareholder information our people Employees Employee wellbeing Our people are critical to Britvics success and we are Throughout the past year, we have focused in GB on fully committed to making Britvic a great place to work, making improvements to work-life balance, improving with our vision to be a top 5 Great Place to Work.
Our our safety record and supporting a healthier workforce.
emphasis is increasingly on developing our own talent, We have continued to invest in tools and systems that combined with proactive external recruitment when give our employees the tools they need to do their we need to introduce new skills or create positions that roles and provided technology that supports more support our growth plans.
To maximise the potential mobile ways of working.
This enables us to improve of our employees we continue to strengthen our focus communication and engagement and gives employees on performance management and provide multiple the opportunity and control to work exibly in terms learning and development programmes in GB and of both location and hours.
To support the health Ireland that cover leadership, management skills and of employees and their families we also provide a functional excellence.
We are early in the integration benets package which includes the provision of private process of Britvic France, but we retain the same high healthcare and an employee assistance programme.
level of commitment to keeping our new colleagues Other wellbeing benets include discounted gym well informed and engaged about Britvics future vision membership and a cycle to work scheme, which was and current group performance as this is fundamental requested by employees and has seen a good level of to our joint success.
We continue to run our annual success so far.
Our employee wellbeing programme has engagement survey and are committed to improving been successfully launched and we have run successful these scores year on year.
initiatives about healthy eating, exercise and general health education.
strategy for growth Britvics strategy is to seek to deliver strong revenue and profit growth and realise attractive cash returns.
s #APITALISING ON ITS PORTFOLIO BREADTH DEPTH The business aims to be both an international brand owner and PepsiCos preferred partner.
"To achieve s ""UILDING THE STRENGTH OF ITS UNIQUE BRANDS these aims, Britvic has built a strategy around growth, underpinned by innovation, driving distribution and s #ONTINUALLY INNOVATING IN ALL THAT IT DOES average realised prices."
"The key building blocks to this s, EVERAGING INSIGHT strategy are: s !CCELERATING CONTRIBUTION FROM THE INTERNATIONAL GROWTH OF ITS BRANDS s ""UILDING BUSINESS SCALE THROUGH ACQUISITIONS Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 3"
