Sustainability report Sustainable business practices Sustainability in its Just as relevant as our business accomplishments is the manner in which we conduct ourselves in attaining them.
Our sustainability goals reflect our culture of continuous advancement and broadest sense is reaffirm our belief that sustainability in its broadest sense is about managing and positioning about managing the group for the long term.
Investecs sustainability philosophy is based on the recognition and positioning that we are a specialist bank and asset manager driven by our commitment to our culture and values.
Investec for the Guided by our purpose to create sustained long-term wealth, we seek to be a positive long term.
influence in all our core businesses and in each of the societies in which we operate.
We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education and leveraging the value in our diversity.
We recognise the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we will consider supporting any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs the life of, our planet.
Our philosophy seeks to align the interests of shareholders and stakeholders over time, and provides the individual business units and regions with a basis from which to determine their own approach.
The groups philosophy is not intended to be mutually exclusive, nor exhaustive, but allows us to concentrate, for now, on key focus areas.
Deliberately not driven on a topdown basis, the executive maintains responsibility for oversight, direction, coordination and integration of our sustainability efforts while the individual business units provide the principal drivers behind our activities, in a manner that best makes sense to each.
During the year under review, Investec maintained its inclusion in the JSE SRI Index, the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Sustainability at Investec The global economic and financial crisis has forced businesses to focus on the challenges of what it means to be a sustainable business, especially in the financial services industry.
During the period, the responsibility for sustainability was moved from the CSI area to Group Strategy, still reporting directly to group executive.
This aligns with international best practice where sustainability is seen as a strategic business imperative.
Accordingly, a significant amount of strategic review and engagement took place between the various contributors.
We now have a more cohesive approach across the group that can be used to guide the unique geographic circumstances and requirements.
Sustainability at Investec is a key strategic issue and is about: Managing and positioning the group for the long term Building a sustainable business model that allows Investec to make a valuable contribution to society, to macro-economic stability and to our environment Developing a strong, diverse and capable workforce Growing and preserving clients and stakeholders wealth based on strong relationships of trust.
Investecs sustainability focus encompasses endurance and the interdependence of the three key areas of profit, people and planet.
FTSE Group confirms that Investec has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 217 Sustainability report continued Objectives for 2013 Maintain a focused business strategy based on building a balanced and sustainable business model Dialogue with business units on a variety of sustainability considerations Influence internal behaviour through staff awareness campaigns on water, waste and energy Capture opportunities in the environmental space across all business areas, particularly renewable energy Engage with stakeholders to set measurable targets and action plans.
Responsibility We have recently constituted a social and ethics committee which covers the non-profit elements of sustainability, see page 201.
We also have sustainability representatives in each of the major geographies in which we operate and various forums discussing sustainability considerations.
Feedback on relevant sustainability issues is provided to board members at each board meeting.
Reporting Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated report with further detail available in a more detailed Sustainability Report on our website.
In line with our view on integrated reporting and reducing paper consumption, copies of the detailed Sustainability Report have not been published.
The online version is available at www.
com where a pdf version can be downloaded.
Our approach to reporting has followed guidance from the King Code which recommends that a company integrates financial and nonfinancial reporting detailing how economic, social and environmental issues have influenced business strategy.
We have been assisted in this regard by the Global Reporting Initiatives GRI G3.1 sustainability reporting guidelines and an index of these indicators together with our response to each of them can be found in our separate sustainability report.
We have self-assessed our reporting to be application level B.
Certain elements of the sustainability information in this report have been verified by the group Internal Audit division.
Internal audit Investec Internal Audit performed a limited review of the quantitative and qualitative sustainability information disclosed on pages 217 to 227 of this report.
The scope of our work was agreed with management and based on the result thereof, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that: The qualitative sustainability information is not a fair statement of Investecs corporate responsibility initiatives The quantitative sustainability information is significantly misstated.
Employee report Investec employees remain critical to continued business success and to overall sustainability efforts.
The expertise and dedication of staff is fundamental in meeting clients needs and delivering distinctive results.
It is therefore vital that we engage, develop and retain a high-value workforce.
One of the groups values is to ensure open and honest communication and hence we encourage active and open dialogue between staff and senior management.
As a responsible employer, Investec aims to offer staff a stimulating and progressive working environment in which they can flourish and realise their true potential.
In assuming responsibility for our human capital we seek to promote sustainability through: Competitive remuneration and reward, and advice for each employee Specialised learning programmes for young talent Measures to ensure the health and well-being of employees Managing performance through regular reviews, learning and development Succession planning and business continuity Resourcing and intake that takes into account a diverse workforce Facilitating an understanding of HR policies and procedures, to allow for guidance and opportunity among staff.
218 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 04 DLC Risk and governance.
indd 218 2012 06 18 11:36 AM Our internal people activities involve dedicated divisions such as Human Resources HR and Organisation Development OD which serve to supplement the ongoing people focus of our individual business units.
The HR teams are mandated to attract, develop and retain talent who can perform in a manner consistent with our culture and values.
OD acts to strengthen the culture of the business, ensure its values are lived, build capability and contribute to the long-term sustainability of the organisation.
The HR division participates with local and international forums, to ensure ongoing development of HR best practice in the group and the alignment of HR strategy with business strategy.
As our operating jurisdictions have different legal and regulatory requirements, our various HR functions operate independently of one another, while at all times adhering to the group philosophical approach.
Employee strategy The core areas of emphasis regarding our people strategy are: To attract, retain and motivate the right people who can perform extraordinarily We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for developing and training employees and in leadership programmes to develop current and future leaders of the group.
During the period under review, Investec in South Africa received first prize in BANKSETAs skills@work large employers category for our efforts in skills development within the financial services sector.
It focuses on how peoples lives are changed through various skills development interventions and how that affects society and strengthens nation building.
The award pays tribute to Investecs dedication to developing its people and remaining at the forefront of learning and development.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 219 Sustainability report continued To retain and motivate staff through appropriate remuneration and reward structures Our remuneration practices comply with the principles of local regulations, while continuing Our remuneration to reward people meaningfully for performance and contribution.
Our remuneration strategy strategy is based is based on the philosophy that employees are innovative, entrepreneurial and work in an environment that encourages and fosters extraordinary performance.
In line with on the philosophy our philosophy of employee ownership, staff share schemes provide all employees, at all that employees levels of the organisation, with the opportunity to participate in our long-term growth.
As at 31 March 2012, management and staff held an effective interest in the group of are innovative, approximately 10%.
entrepreneurial Further information is provided on pages 235 to 253. and work in an environment To ensure that performance management is effectively and constructively practised Our culture of open and honest dialogue promotes immediate and direct performance-related that encourages feedback between manager, employee and team, to help individuals identify and address their and fosters development needs.
extraordinary The policies and business practices of Investec are outlined in BAWI Becoming Acquainted performance.
with Investec and in the compliance handbook.
They are intended to guide our conduct and ensure that at all times our actions and attitude reflect the groups values and philosophies.
These policies and business practices can be found on our website, including more details on the following: Promoting equity and diversity in the workplace Our promotion of equal opportunity and workplace diversity is not merely a social responsibility, but a means of ensuring that we foster a culture of diversity in the belief that this brings business advantage.
During the year we completed our second Department of Trade and Industry BEE verification according to generic codes and were awarded level 3 rating status by Empowerdex, an improvement of 8.04 points.
Further information on the employment equity statistics of our South African business is available on our website.
Health and safety A group-wide formal health and safety programme identifies and manages all health and safety risks, and carries out regular safety audits.
It is overseen by a health and safety committee that meets quarterly to review health and safety concerns.
In South Africa, Investecs HIV Aids policy and management forum extends to all permanent employees.
Retrenchment policy Where it becomes necessary for Investec to terminate employment based on operational requirements, the procedure to be followed will be in accordance with local regulatory requirements.
We conduct consultation as prescribed by local legislation during which we attempt to find a suitable alternative position for the affected employee.
Freedom of association We fully support employees right to freedom of association.
There is no representative trade union for Investec and we are not aware of any employees who are part of a trade union.
Human rights We do not have a formal human rights policy for the group as this would fall within the ambit of our Code of Conduct but we do adhere to the relevant laws in all our jurisdictions.
Discrimination There has been no recorded incidence of discrimination in any of our businesses.
To review the full details on employees and our policies relating to business practices, please refer to the separate sustainability report on our website.
220 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Corporate social investment report Our approach to corporate social investment CSI has historically placed strong emphasis on education and entrepreneurship, while also supporting other causes, albeit more passively.
We believe this to be the most effective way to create opportunities for employment, wealth creation and stimulating socio-economic growth.
In keeping with our business model of independent, highly autonomous business units, supported by a strong centre, there is no single overriding approach to social investment within the group, although clear commonalities exist.
Each of the regions has pursued social investment as deemed appropriate to their circumstances and where they are in the evolution of their business.
Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items and after non-controlling interests.
UK and Europe The UK social investment programme plays a key role in the fulfilment of Investecs core values.
It champions sustainable social investment by: Building dedicated charitable partnerships Engaging all Investec employees in making a positive difference Harnessing our diverse resources and collective talent.
Investec focuses its social investment programme on charitable partners working in the areas of education, entrepreneurship and environment.
Through these dedicated partnerships we are able to deliver tangible impacts to the communities in which we operate.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 221 Sustainability report continued Highlights during the period Investec won the Social Impact category at the Business Charity Awards, for our work with the Bromley by Bow Centre, an internationally renowned charity which has earned a reputation as a dynamic social business that has transformed its community in east London over the last 25 years We support three projects initiated by the Bromley by Bow Centre.
One of the projects, Beyond Business, is a social enterprise incubator which provides start-up funding and advice to local people looking to start their own businesses.
It has led to the development of over 30 businesses, creating 200 jobs Investec was a finalist in the economic regeneration and community partnership categories at the 2011 Lord Mayors Dragon Awards.
These awards recognise the contributions made by London-based companies to their local communities We run a mentoring programme for 50 students in partnership with Arrival Education We work with Morpeth school on a variety of education projects and have also funded their outward bound activities Investec continues to work with Community Links on the development of a new market garden enterprise at the Newham City farm which will provide jobs and a stable income stream to disadvantaged members of the local community 37 runners participated in the 2011 London Marathon and raised 97 000 for a variety of charities Outside of London, many of the Investec offices have been developing their own social investment programmes, which are aligned with our education, entrepreneurship and environment focus areas In Guernsey, a strong partnership has been developed with local primary school, Amherst.
Volunteers are very involved with literacy programmes, cookery lessons and outward bound activities The Leeds office has been partnering with a local comprehensive school on a mentoring programme, as well as environmental projects in the local area Ireland have a longstanding relationship with Marino College Dublin, with volunteers mentoring young people in education and life skills.
South Africa Aligned with the group approach, our CSI endeavours focus on education and entrepreneurship.
Wherever possible, we seek to collaborate with partners so as to leverage resources and expertise and help ensure enduring impact and long-term sustainability for our projects.
In all cases, we look to clear indications that projects are enduring, sustainable and replicable where appropriate and are guided by strategic intent, rather than philanthropic well-meaning.
In the context of the sheer number of socio-economic needs in the South African context, however, we have had to recognise that we cannot be all things to all people in respect of our available resources.
Our CSI strategy is to focus on a more clearly defined pipeline of educational and entrepreneurial projects.
The strategy is aimed at facilitating the empowerment of talented individuals within a defined continuum of interventions through school and university to the workplace.
Breakdown of spend by the CSI division Rmillion For the year to 31 March 2012 Education 23.1 Bursary programme 6.3 Promaths 6.0 Schools assistance programme 5.3 Universities 2.8 Private schools assistance 1.2 Other 1.5 Entrepreneurial 4.1 In schools 2.5 Other 1.6 Philanthropic 2.7 Total CSI contribution by the CSI division in South Africa 29.9 Excluding contributions made by other divisions of a further R4.2 million.
222 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Highlights during the period In line with our strategy, a total of 91% of CSI spend was allocated to education and The Cradle entrepreneurial initiatives Project is a Promaths, which is a partnership between Investec and Kutlwanong Maths and Science group of Investec Centre, offers extra maths and science lessons to grade 10, 11 and 12 learners.
The main aim is to improve learners performance in maths, hence facilitating entrance into tertiary employees who learning institutions.
The results for our 2011 learners were extremely encouraging.
As give their time their pivotal founding partner, Investec continues to cover around 40% of Kutlwanong and resources Centres operational costs contributing to the achievement of 752 decent passes in maths and 702 decent passes nationwide to improving the Investec entered into a partnership with the Independent Schools Association of Southern lives of those Africa and the Department of Education with the main objective to develop quality less fortunate in teachers of maths, science and english our surrounding Investec staff donated a total of R136 475 to various charities through the Touch by Giving communities.
Touch by Giving offers Investec staff a simple way to make a monthly donation, directly from their salaries, to a pre-selected charity The Cradle Project, a group of Investec employees who give their time and resources to improving the lives of those less fortunate in our surrounding communities, allocated R734 550 to a variety of worthy causes A total of 83 employees are currently mentoring young students, either at high school or at university, to providing guidance and support through their educational journey During the financial year, 347 high school learners participated in an eight month long Investec funded programme focusing on entrepreneurial, financial literacy and workplace readiness, as well as micro-economics and business ethics.
Mauritius Investec Bank Mauritius believes in making a positive contribution to the society and the environment in which we operate.
Our strategy is to focus on projects and initiatives in education, environment and sports development.
In line with the governments focus on poverty alleviation, Investecs CSI projects are directed at communities or beneficiaries that are financially disadvantaged.
Our approach is to ensure long-term sustainability.
This means making multifaceted interventions in selected communities and may include building operational skills and organisational capacity.
The following criteria are assessed when considering projects: Ability to make a meaningful difference Capacity to deliver sustained benefits Measurability Potential to engage co-sponsors to increase leverage and provide an integrated solution Opportunity for staff involvement.
The Mauritius office contributed MUR3.2 million 2011: MUR3.1 million to a number of corporate social investment projects during the financial year of which 37% went to environmental considerations.
Australia The Investec Foundation in Australia embodies our philanthropic commitment to the Australian community.
This commitment is illustrated primarily through supporting meaningful health, welfare and educational programmes, while remaining focused on preserving the local environment and managing our environmental footprint.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 223 Sustainability report continued To create a positive social impact the Investec Foundation focuses on a small number of sustained philanthropic giving and volunteering efforts.
We partner with local, entrepreneurial organisations which perform remarkable work in these fields.
Alongside financial support our employees offer their hands, heads and hearts to the foundations chosen causes.
Highlights during the period The Australian office contributed A$283 492 to a number of corporate social investment projects During the year Investec participated in five Australian Business and Community Network ABCN programmes with 14% of our staff involved nationally.
ABCN is a partnership of highly committed national business leaders and companies working on mentoring and coaching initiatives Investec Australias Investment Bank team initiated Investec Community Awareness and Responsible Engagement ICARE in 2011.
ICARE takes entire teams of Investec people out of the workplace for a day and connects them to people in need.
In 2011, the investment banking team spent a day at a special needs school in Bondi working directly with children with intellectual and multiple disabilities.
Inspired by the success of this initiative, the Investec Foundation has decided to broaden ICARE to include all of Investec Bank Australia in 2012 In its latest initiative, the Investec Foundation has partnered with the Gonski Foundation and The Royal Flying Doctor Service RFDS South Eastern Section SES to deliver a new oral health service in North West NSW to address the poor and deteriorating oral health in some of our most remote and vulnerable communities During the financial year, our staff donated A$93 937 to charities of their choice which was matched by Investec.
Information technology IT Investec continues to invest in IT infrastructure and systems which allow the organisation to benefit from technological innovation, improve our ability to meet business needs and, in some instances, offer more environmentally friendly solutions.
Infrastructure The vision is to create a fluid and elastic infrastructure stack, allowing Investec to be more agile in response to business need, while containing costs and increasing service to the respective businesses.
Key infrastructure related developments during the period include: The introduction of a global shared services support model facilitating resource leveraging across the UK and South Africa, as infrastructure is supported by a unified global team Consolidation of storage platforms onto a single platform has allowed a reduction of our physical footprint in the data centre.
This has also facilitated a reduction in hosting costs and a reduced TCO over a five year period by improving storage utilisation Operational efficiencies have been created in Mauritius by automating the disaster recovery process The implementation of a new strategy in the backup environment has mitigated backup and recovery risks of the old tape system as we now back up to disk.
Reliance on third parties has been reduced as we are now able to utilise in-house skills to support this within the global model We continue to improve efficiencies through our virtualisation strategies and have consolidated licences globally with the implementation of a global enterprise licence agreement.
This will significantly improve the allocation and usage of licences across all geographies and will facilitate an estimated saving on software maintenance spend of approximately R3 million over the next three years The utilisation of technology has allowed us to exploit our current infrastructure by almost doubling the amount of virtual machines without having to procure any additional physical hosts Our move to commodity type infrastructure from proprietary equipment continues to reduce our operating costs through reduced power requirements, a reduction in the physical footprint and the use of an internal support model We continue to upgrade our video conferencing environment with the majority of Investec offices now running in high definition.
This has changed our day-to-day collaboration experience and greatly enhanced communication between offices, effectively reducing travel needs Kensington was upgraded with a new Cisco contact centre to answer client calls.
We have full visibility of calling statistics which enables us to manage, run and staff the contact centres appropriately A fully resilient voice architecture has been achieved in the UK by the Investec team, working with British Telecom BT.
External connectivity, 224 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information with call routing, will be maintained while enduring a failure both internally on the Investec systems, and externally on the BT systems South Africa has been upgraded to a Cisco IP platform for its voice infrastructure.
It is now fully resilient internally, and load-balanced across multiple data-centres.
The team is working with South African providers to gain a similar level of resilience for external calls as achieved in the UK The UK office is expanding its footprint of thin desktops to more users and therefore continuing to reduce total energy consumption for the desktop environment A managed print service is to be implemented in the next financial year in the UK region to reduce print wastage.
Key business application-related developments during the period include: In both the UK and South Africa there is a concerted effort to become a more client-centric organisation.
All client facing interfaces are being reviewed resulting in many improvement initiatives.
The Single Specialist Bank initiative will ensure elimination of duplicate business processes across divisions, delivering a more cost effective, client-focused service offering In the UK there is a drive to move clients onto online banking, new and enhanced online account opening functionality, both for Private Banking and Reading mortgages in terms of the initial mortgage application vetting process, electronic credit application processes within the Investec asset finance business and electronic statement distribution In South Africa, significant investments are being made to improve our client experience in the online environments, develop innovative products and increase efficiency in back office processes.
Base technology product selection has been achieved with global architectural community participation with a view to realising future technology convergence across geographies.
This convergence will lead to opportunities to leverage resources, skills and licensing at a global level and aid in the achievement of our three strategic goals to: Align architectural principles across all businesses and geographies Reduce the global business applications footprint Commoditise common functionality wherever commercially viable.
We are in the process of implementing a sustainability reporting system non-financial data, externally hosted, that imports data from various sources, consolidates the information and calculates the carbon footprint, human resource and community spend.
This is a global solution and covers corporate social investment, human resource data such as headcount, training and health and safety statistics as well as operational impacts including energy electricity, gas and fuel, water, paper, waste and travel Future benefits of the sustainability reporting system include consistent methodologies and metrics, benchmarking and target setting in terms of economic, environmental and social performance.
It will also facilitate trend analysis from historic information across all geographies.
The lack of technical skills in South Africa remains a challenge and we have embarked on a graduate programme with local schools and universities to promote IT as a direction of study and career choice.
This initiative is being coordinated and aligned with Investecs corporate social investment programme.
Procurement report We recognise the potential for our procurement and supply chain practices to be agents for change in respect of the different aspects of sustainability.
We have begun to engineer, within select industries, changed outcomes across economic, social and environmental fronts.
In the UK we made additions to our procurement policy to incorporate both green and corporate social responsible aspects.
We have incorporated evaluation criteria into all of our procurement documentation to allow us to measure and demonstrate our intent to procure effectively without compromising the environment.
In South Africa, our procurement practices seek to accord with the BEE requirements of the Department of Trade and Industrys Codes of Good Practice and we have an established process for monitoring and measuring our broad-based BEE procurement efforts.
Environmentally responsible partners are key to the procurement process and we focus on sustainability criteria when contracting with potential and existing vendors.
Our largest suppliers of PCs and server equipment subscribe to an electronic code of conduct which assists in monitoring compliance across several areas such as environmental impact, labour, health and safety.
We always consider the Energy Star endorsement before purchasing equipment.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 225 Sustainability report continued Environmental report During the year, As a niched, specialist, knowledge-based financial services organisation with a limited physical presence, the direct environmental and social impacts of Investecs daily operations environmental are limited.
However, in promoting sustainability as part of Investecs core strategy, we believe management there needs to be a balance between economic and financial imperatives, the needs of society policy statements and their combined impact on the environment.
for our South Investecs environmental policy takes into account the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we will consider any meaningful activity that either reduces the African and UK negative impact on, or prolongs the life of, our planet.
We believe that as a bank, and given offices were our positioning in the first world and emerging world, we can make a meaningful impact in approved by addressing climate change.
Our environmental strategy is focused internally on creating awareness and encouraging behavioural change in recognition of our environmental responsibilities.
Externally, we are starting to focus on incorporating environmental considerations into our daily operations.
We recognise the significant opportunities for our clients and our various businesses in areas such as cleaner and renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and responsible lending and investing.
Investec recognises that effective environmental management is an essential part of embedding this philosophy into the organisation.
We are committed to operating an effective environmental management system compliant with King III in South Africa and ISO14001:2004 in the UK.
During the year, environmental management policy statements for our South African and UK offices were approved by executive.
Copies of these statements are included in our staff induction packs and are available on our websites.
Highlights for the UK and Europe Investec was placed in the top 5% overall and ranked third amongst the financial institutions in the first league tables of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
This was launched by the UK government in an effort to encourage business to reduce their carbon footprint and help the UK meet its emissions reduction targets Our Gresham Street office was awarded the Special Commendation Platinum Award in the City of Londons Clean City Awards Scheme for 2011.
These awards recognise City businesses that operate a well-managed waste minimisation programme through staff engagement Our Gresham Street office was shortlisted in the UK-wide Sustainable City Awards in the Responsible Waste Management category in recognition of outstanding effort in our waste minimisation programme in 2011 We completed our formal environmental management system for our Gresham Street building.
This system has been produced to ensure environmental control, continual improvement in our environmental performance and compliance with the internationally recognised environmental management standard BS EN ISO 14001:2004.
The system is based on our environmental policy which sets out our environmental commitments initially for the facilities function at Gresham Street We published our energy management plan for Gresham Street which sets the following targets on energy reductions: based on the financial year 2009, a reduction target of 15% in 2012, and 34% in 2020 We completed the installation of smart energy meters across our Gresham Street offices so that we now have 100% coverage of our electricity usage.
This has enabled us to continue to monitor and better manage our electricity usage, reducing it by a further 6% during the period under review Smart meters have been rolled out to the majority of our European offices 226 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information In 2011 our Guildford office became the first tenant of the Low Carbon Workplaces first refurbished office.
Low Carbon Workplace, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Carbon Trust, has a remit to refurbish old buildings to a high energy efficiency standard.
The building is expected to save as much as 60% carbon above the industry standard In an effort to reduce our waste streams further we have removed all paper hand towels from our staff washrooms and have replaced them with Dyson Airblade hand drier units Team Green, our team of environmental champions, continues to engage with our staff by running environmental initiatives to encourage better and sustainable environmental behaviour.
Local Team Green groups have grown across our UK offices, and have in Scotland and Ireland Following the GreenHouse Gas Protocol methodology, we have broadened the scope of our carbon footprint exercise this year to include the emissions from all our UK, Ireland, Scotland, Channel Islands, Switzerland and Canada based offices.
Highlights for South Africa Energy efficient installations and upgrades were done at the two Investec office buildings in Sandton and Pretoria which resulted in electricity savings equivalent to power the lights of approximately 5 280 average homes in South Africa We hosted a post-COP17 breakfast with the National Business Institute in South Africa at the end of January 2012, creating a platform for discussion on climate change and the potential implications for business and society at large Investec was included in the Carbon Disclosure Project for South Africa for 2011 and was ranked third in the financial services sector We held a number of staff awareness campaigns during the year on topics such as water awareness, solar initiatives, Earth Hour and the COP17 climate change conference Recognising that climate change is an increasingly relevant investment issue, with potentially profound economic and societal implications, Investec Asset Management published a research report assessing the impact of climate change on shareholder value in South Africa.
This is publicly available from their website The project and infrastructure team continues to play an active role in the renewable energy sector and, during the course of the year, they supported a number of transactions both as lender and equity investor in the renewable energy programme currently run by the South African department of energy.
Investec Energy Finance concluded a 15-year 50 million climate action framework loan facility with the European Investment Bank EIB.
The facility will be utilised for funding energy efficient and clean energy projects in South Africa over the next few years.
The team takes consideration of the environmental impact of these types of transactions and has agreed to partner with BirdLife South Africa to fund research on the environmental impact of renewable energy such as wind energy facilities on the local birdlife in South Africa.
This research will make a valuable contribution to mitigate the potential impacts of renewable energy developments on South Africas birds and will cover energy developments relating to wind, solar and nuclear sites We hosted a lunch at our offices in which 20 MBA students from Duke University in the US met with representatives from Food and Trees for Africa, NOAH and Operation Hope to engage with Investec staff on a variety of sustainability topics.
Highlights for Mauritius Investec partnered with the Mauritian Wildlilfe Foundation to sponsor 666 children to participate in their Learning with Nature programme.
Highlights for Australia Investec in Australia has developed procedures to minimise the environmental impact of our operations.
We continue to monitor our carbon emissions performance and ways in which we can reduce our footprint The group has implemented a reporting system to capture data relating to operational impacts and our carbon footprint and this will be rolled out to the Australian office in the 2013 financial year.
Summary of Investecs carbon footprint For the period 1 April 2011 31 March 2012 South CO metric tonnes Africa UK Australia Mauritius Group 2 Emissions per full time employee 12.73 4.12 6.14 4.20 6.80 2 Emissions per m office space 0.53 0.39 0.56 0.36 0.46 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 227
