26 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate social responsibility Policy statement IP Group aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in which it operates and to respect the needs of its employees and all of its stakeholders.
The Group is committed to growing the business while ensuring a safe environment for employees as well as minimising the overall impact on the environment.
IP Group endeavours to conduct its business in accordance with established best practice, to be a responsible employer and to adopt values and standards designed to help guide staff in their conduct and business relationships.
Our commitment to the Measuring our direct The direct environment and sustainability impact on the environment Climate change and increased environmental The Group operates out of three main ofce environmental damage are commonly accepted to be very locations in the UK and during 2012 employed real threats both now and in the future.
As a result, impact of the Group Sustainability forms a core component of our the Groups directors have always considered business philosophy and we rmly recognise that the direct environmental impact of the and its subsidiary our responsibility to ensure that our business Groups business is relatively low.
As was the continues to operate in a sustainable manner.
case in 2011, the Group again employed the companies is services of a specialist adviser, Verco previously Sustainability features prominently in our Camco, to evaluate and quantify greenhouse relatively low.
opportunity selection agenda and we actively gas GHG emissions associated with the pursue opportunities that have the potential Groups operations.
to improve the environment we live in and benefit societys wellbeing on a global scale.
Verco calculated our emissions by multiplying In healthcare, the Group has established data provided for particular activities by Defra companies seeking to develop diagnostics emission factors.
For example, an emission and therapeutics across a wide range of disease factor is used to convert litres of petrol areas including cancer, wound care, liver consumed into the amount of CO emitted 2 diseases, asthma and Alzheimers disease.
Vercos assessment The Group has also formed and invested in methodology follows the reporting principles a number of companies that are pioneering and guidelines provided by the Greenhouse the development of both clean technologies Gas Protocol published by the World Business and research in the water, energy, waste Council for Sustainable Development and the management and construction sectors.
World Resources Institute the WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol.
The direct environmental impact of the Group and its subsidiary companies is relatively low.
The results from the Groups different The business operates from a small number operational activities, including refrigerant of ofces and employs fewer than 40 people, gas losses, premises fossil fuel consumption, with the majority of our work being ofce-based.
electricity consumption, business travel, The Group does, however, remain committed commuting and waste disposal, have been to ensuring that the environmental impacts calculated to provide an estimate of carbonof the business operations are minimised related emissions for the activities of the and reduced wherever possible.
While the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012, Board as a whole has primary responsibility resulting in a quantication of the Groups for environmental issues, it has allocated annual carbon footprint.
Vercos report day-to-day responsibility for the review covers the six Kyoto gases, expressed in of environmental and social issues to the carbon dioxide equivalents, or CO e. In the 2 year to 31 December 2012, Verco calculated Chief Financial officer, Greg Smith.
The Group has an Environmental Policy, which is monitored that the GHG emissions arising from the operations associated with IP Group gave rise and discussed at Board level and reviewed at least annually.
This policy is communicated to to 169 tonnes of CO e, a limited increase on 2 the equivalent gure for 2011 of 160 tonnes.
all new staff upon induction into the business and is available on the Groups website.
Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Breakdown of emissions by source % for the year ended 31 December 2012 20% 30% 50% Premises Commuting Business travel The chart above depicts the Groups emissions working in partnership with our staff, The Groups by activity.
The largest source of emissions suppliers, landlords and their agents to was from premises activities, predominantly promote improved energy performance objective is to as a result of electricity consumption.
The and energy efficiency: and second largest source of emissions arose maintain or reduce from business travel, predominantly trains.
wherever appropriate, making use of Verco also calculated the Groups average recycled and recyclable consumables its GHG per person level of GHG emissions at 5.0 t CO e per 2 and materials, including promotional employee 2011: 4.7 t CO e, which remains 2 and will report each and marketing documentation.
at the lower end of the range expected by Verco for a group carrying out similar activities year whether it has Understanding the indirect environmental to the Group expected range 4 to 8 tonnes impacts of our business activities of CO e per employee.
been successful 2 As described above, the Groups day-to-day operational activities have a limited impact In addition, Verco again gathered information in this regard.
We do, however, recognise on the Groups waste usage in 2012.
Across that the more significant impact occurs its three ofces, estimated total waste of indirectly, through the investment decisions 6.3 tonnes was identied during the year, we make and the operation of the companies comprising 4.1 tonnes of landll waste and we choose to invest in.
The Group therefore 2.2 tonnes of recycled waste 2011: 4.6, 3.7 considers it important to establish and invest and 0.9 tonnes respectively.
in businesses that comply with existing applicable environmental, ethical and social Given the comparatively low GHG impact of legislation.
It is also important that these the Groups operations, the Groups objective businesses can demonstrate that an appropriate is to maintain or reduce its GHG per person strategy is in place to meet future applicable each year and will report each year whether legislative and regulatory requirements and it has been successful in this regard.
that these businesses can operate to specic industry standards, striving for best practice.
Minimising our direct impact on the environment Major investment themes for IP Group have In addition to the GHG analysis set out above, included, and will continue to include, business we are committed to: opportunities focused on developing clean technology, environmental improvement and promoting resource efficiency and the resource efficiency.
The following case study management of waste generated from has been included to highlight how our our business operations according to investment decisions are linked to the global the principles of the waste management environmental and sustainability agenda.
We prioritise the management of our waste in the following order: Further qualitative and quantitative details prevention, preparing for reuse, recycling, of the Groups investments in companies other recovery and, nally, disposal.
in Medical Equipment & Supplies, Pharma Recycling facilities and waste awareness & Biotech, Energy & Renewables and materials are present in all of our Chemicals & Materials sectors are detailed in the Portfolio review, on pages 12 to 20. ofce locations: maximising the use of public transport for business travel and minimising business airline travel: Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group 28 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Our business ethics and social responsibility The Group seeks to conduct all of its operating and business activities in a socially responsible manner and, in all such activities, for its directors and employees to maintain integrity and professionalism, to be commercial and fair and to have due regard to the interest of all of its stakeholders including investors, Revise was formed by sustainability university partners, employees, suppliers and the businesses in which the Group experts with the simple aim of utilising invests.
All employees who are involved with the regulated business of managing best available technologies which investment transactions receive compliance and anti-money laundering training, with will allow people and businesses periodic refresher courses.
to better understand the concept Employment policies of sustainability from a technical, Copies of the Groups policies in relation to equal opportunities and diversity, health operational and business perspective.
and safety, and anti-corruption and bribery can be found on the Groups website, In 2012, Revise launched Waste Expert 1.0, the www.
worlds first virtual waste management expert.
The Group seeks to operate as a responsible employer and has adopted standards which Waste management is a key sustainability priority promote corporate values designed to help that often lacks effective management control.
and guide employees in their conduct and business relationships.
The Group seeks to Traditionally, detailed operational understanding comply with all laws, regulations and rules and considerable staff or consultancy resource applicable to its business and to conduct the has been required to manage complex issues that are business in line with applicable established best practice.
The Groups policy is one of governed by widespread and onerous legislation.
equal opportunity in the selection, training, The waste experts key function is to overcome career development and promotion of these limitations and enable the user to quickly employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and easily improve the waste management and whether disabled or otherwise.
performance of their organisation, embedding It is the Groups policy to conduct all of our improved skills and knowledge along the way.
business in an honest and ethical manner.
Revise is a subsidiary of Sustainable Resource We take a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting Solutions Limited, in which the Group has a professionally, fairly and with integrity in all 43.6% undiluted beneficial holding.
our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery.
Further details on the Groups portfolio companies The Group is bound by the laws of the UK, can be found on our website: www.
com including the Bribery Act 2010, and has implemented policies and procedures based on such laws.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 The Groups management and employees are The Groups three chosen charities during to engage and consult with employees on fundamental to our success and as a result 2012 were Lend with Care, a website allowing day-to-day health and safety conditions we are committed to encouraging the ongoing benefactors to lend entrepreneurs in developing and provide advice and supervision on development of our staff with the aim of countries funds to help build their business occupational health: maximising the Groups overall performance.
which they then repay over time, Vauxhall Emphasis is placed on staff development City Farm, an inner-city farm providing the to implement emergency procedures, through work-based learning, with senior local community with education, activities for example, evacuation in case of re members of staff acting as coaches and and riding therapy, and Young Enterprise, or other significant incident: and mentors.
The Group has continued to employ which works with young people between regular all-staff update meetings as the main the ages of 4 and 25 to inspire and equip to maintain safe and healthy working source of employee communication.
them to succeed through enterprise.
Further conditions, provide and maintain plant, details of the activities of these charities equipment and machinery, and ensure Health and safety are set out on the Groups website at safe storage use of substances.
Promotion of health and safety at work http: www.
is an essential responsibility of staff During the year to 31 December 2012, and management at all levels.
The Chief Members of IP Group staff raised a total of no reportable accidents occurred under Executive has overall responsibility for 5,200 through donate a day salary sacrifice UK Health and Safety regulations.
the implementation of the Groups health and sponsorship of the Groups 2012 Way of and safety policies and procedures.
In line with its Community investment stated policy, the Group made no charitable Our employees are encouraged to consider The primary purpose of the Groups health donations during 2012 2011: 9,000 each to social issues and the Group is supportive and safety policy, which is summarised below, two charities.
of employees pursuing roles with charitable is to enable all members of the Groups staff organisations.
to go about their everyday business at work in the expectation that they can do so safely IP Group and its members of staff have a long and without risk to their health.
High standards history of supporting charities and remain of health and safety are applied to staff committed to making charitable donations.
and subcontractors and we endeavour to The Group aims to donate 1% of the previous ensure that the health, safety and welfare 1 years realised profits to one or more charities of our employees, visitors, customers, which have a particular relevance to IP Groups contractors staff and the general public activities or to members of our team.
charities are selected each year by the Groups charitable donations committee The key policy objectives of our health which consists of representatives from senior and safety policy are: management and our wider team.
Members of staff are also encouraged to supplement to prevent accidents and cases of the donations made by IP Group through work-related ill health and provide give as you earn salary sacrifice donations adequate control of health and safety and fundraising challenges.
risks arising from work activities: to provide adequate training to ensure employees are competent to do their work: 1 Realised profits is dened as the lower of profit after tax or portfolio realisations.
The Groups directors reserve the right to limit any donation in a year of exceptional profits or realisations or the case of other exceptional circumstances.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
