BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OUR MARKETS DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GEC REVIEW OF OPERATIONS FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT Corporate Responsibility In 2012, JLT contributed 480,000 to Environment We run our business charitable causes excluding funds raised by We remain committed to minimising any responsibly, operating within employees.
A significant proportion of this adverse impacts our businesses may have on was donated through the Charity Matching the environment.
We regularly review our legal and ethical guidelines Scheme.
environmental policy to make sure our in every part of the world.
objectives remain effective and we are meeting our targets.
2010-2012 Charitable We recognise that our corporate donations responsibility activities are an important way Building on our commitments for us to deliver upon our strategic aim see In 2013 a new Corporate Responsibility 480,000 page 7 of creating a distinctive work Committee will review our corporate environment.
The Committee will: embed its activities within the overall Our communities Group strategy, particularly in respect of We believe we can positively influence, creating a distinctive workplace improve and support communities local to 000 gather employee feedback to identify where we work.
corporate responsibility priorities 10 11 12 The JLT Group Charities Committee makes improve understanding and donations to organisations based on: communication of current  merit related activities similarities to our own company vision We do not produce a separate sustainability deepen support for organisations more and values or corporate responsibility report.
closely aligned to our business activities alignment with our location You can also read about our Corporate introduce tools to measure and reduce employee interest and enthusiasm.
Responsibilities in the Directors Report on our environmental impact page 45.
Organisations and employees can apply for produce a global framework to support which we provide where possible in coordinate future activities.
conjunction with the employees own The Committees work is to be supported by fundraising activities.
Our Charity Matching Heart in the City, which advises businesses Scheme matches every pound raised up to and organisations in the City of London on 2,500.
Employees are also entitled to take charity activity.
one day per year for volunteer work.
Each year we support a number of charitable projects in addition to employee contributions.
In 2012 these included: Udaan Foundation Action on Addiction Westmead Childrens Hospital Lighthouse Club The Udaan Foundation is located Action on Addiction works to JLT Australia holds an annual golf In 2013, JLT Specialtys near our Mumbai office.
It provides establish a better understanding of day to support the Cystic Fibrosis Construction team celebrates its education for some of the poorest the complex causes and treatment Clinic at the childrens hospital in 25th anniversary.
To commemorate and most disadvantaged children of addiction which will affect one the Sydney suburb of Westmead.
the occasion, the team have living in Mumbai.
The foundation in three people in their lives.
The event has raised more than chosen to support the Lighthouse encourages students to continue AUD1.3 million since it was started Club in the UK.
Lighthouse JLT announced a three-year their education beyond minimum in 2004.
This money funds a partprovides financial and emotional agreement with the charity in 2012 government requirements to help time dietician for the patients and support to families of those injured to help fund activities and the them escape the cycle of poverty.
the JLT Fellowship, an annual or killed whilst working in the organisations development.
The learning and research programme construction industry.
We have supported the foundation charity is the largest of its type in for cystic fibrosis doctors.
through financial donations and the UK and works in partnership This project will run throughout employee volunteering, which has with schools, hospitals and 2013 with various events taking achieved real results.
We aim to community groups.
place to raise funds for the charity.
further increase our support in 2013.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 19 332.6 407.9 480.0
