JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 GOVERNANCE 35.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, is committed to socially-responsible investing, which includes financial sustainability through to promoting social and environmental benefits.
The JLIF Board is wholly supportive of this approach to investing.
The commitment to corporate social responsibility is largely delivered through JLCM.
JLIF benefits from John Laings high standards of CSR that permeate throughout the management services provided to the Portfolio assets.
It is the engagement of teams that manage the assets on a daily basis and support the communities in which they operate that makes the greatest difference.
John Laings commitment to CSR was recognised in 2009 by its award of the national standard of community investment excellence, the Community Mark.
John Laing has continued to build on the success of its community engagement activities in 2012 being awarded a Platinum Award for the Business in the Community BITC Corporate Responsibility Index, following a Gold Award in 2010 and 2011.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT John Laing works closely with a number of Charitable and Community organisations to support and deliver their projects.
One aspect of John Laings community engagement is through Business Class, a scheme designed to directly respond to concerns about the often short term and ad hoc nature of engagement between businesses and schools.
John Laing is involved with the scheme in both Swindon and the London Borough of Westminster.
Its allocated partner school in London is the Paddington Academy, a mixed comprehensive school with approximately 1200 pupils, specialising in business and enterprise.
The areas of engagement between John Laing and the Academy include providing support and coaching to middle management departmental and year heads and providing non-teaching staff at the school with access to professional development such as training in I. T. skills.
JLCM staff also act as mentors to sixth form pupils helping them develop skills such as interviewing, writing CVs and cover letters, presenting and applying for university or employment.
JLCM staff have also been involved with a mock interview day organised by the school giving Year 10 pupils the opportunity to practice important skills and behaviours expected of an interviewee and to develop confidence in this area.
In addition to John Laings corporate commitment to raising money for worthy causes, individual staff are supported through a matched giving scheme funded by the John Laing Charitable Trust.
Under this scheme the company will match all funds privately raised by the staff member up to a maximum of 1,000.
In 2012, 43 applications were received from staff with the company matching donations totalling approximately 22,200.
John Laing has supported Homeless Link, a charity supporting people and organisations working directly with homeless people across the UK, with funding of 190,000 since 2006 including a 25,000 donation in 2012.
The funding has been used to develop online resources and email bulletins, to create a network of regional groups for day centre managers, to support one to one help offered by 25 day centres across the UK and for the provision of bursaries for training of day centre staff.
PROJECT AWARDS In November 2012, Forth Valley Royal Hospital was awarded the Partners in Healthcare Facilities and Overall Award at the Premises and Facilities Management Awards 2012.
The award recognised the importance of early consideration of facilities management in the design of a hospital and the delivery of a wide range of quality services.
At the end of October 2012, the same project also won a Platinum Award at the Global FM awards for Excellence in Facilities Management.
This award is intended to recognise best practice within facilities management and is given to facility operators who have made a significant contribution to the knowledge, practical application and communication of strategies to improve the workplace environment and sustainable performance of their facilities.
In January 2012 the Abbotsford Regional Hospital and Cancer Centre received a First Place Technology Award from the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-conditioning Engineers.
The award recognises outstanding achievements in successfully applied innovative building design including effective energy management and indoor air quality.
This award further recognises the effectiveness of the energy solutions put in place at the hospital since it was the first Canadian acute care hospital to be award LEED Gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.
In October 2012 Partners for Improvement in Islington, the project company that manages the Islington Social Housing projects, achieved an Investors In People bronze accreditation.
