Corporate responsibility report Our business can only be a success Our strategy is to grow our business bribery and anti-corruption policy if we implement our strategy, behave both organically and by acquisition, and provided training for all of our employees.
ethically, care for the environment, retaining our focus on serving the needs and foster stronger relationships in of specialist healthcare physicians Human rights and anti-slavery the communities where we operate.
In January 2012, the California This makes good business sense, Our corporate responsibility CR Transparency in Supply Chain Act came building reputation and trust with our reporting criteria, listed below, have been into effect requiring companies doing customers and driving more efficient chosen as the most relevant to us and business in the state of California, and business processes.
our stakeholders, following a review of having annual worldwide gross receipts our business impacts and a comparison in excess of $100m, to disclose their with those of our peers.
efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their direct supply chain.
1. Business ethics BTG recognises numerous international 2.
Research and development standards including the United Nations 3.
Suppliers and customers Universal Declaration of Human Rights 4.
Community and its subsequent changes.
Environment developing a human rights policy, defining a companywide standard for In this report we focus on the key human rights, that is consistent with activities during the last year.
comprehensive report on all of our We are also in the process of developing ongoing CR activities, together with key a business partner Code of Conduct policies and procedures, is accessible founded upon the Pharmaceutical in the Responsibility section of our Supply Chain Initiatives PSCI corporate website at www.
Principles, the United Nations Global BTG is a member of the FTSE4Good Compact Principles, our Code of Conduct index series, designed to measure 1. Business ethics and Values.
We aim to finalise these key objectively the performance of Code of Conduct initiatives within the 2012 13 financial companies that meet globally Our Code of Conduct describes the year.
recognised corporate responsibility principles, policies and procedures standards.
that we have developed to promote the Employee well-being ethical behaviours that we expect from We operate a number of programmes all our employees globally.
The core designed to protect and enhance principle is that every one of us must employee satisfaction, mental and take individual responsibility for physical health.
This contributes both behaving ethically and compliantly and to retention and productivity of our that we are each accountable for our employees.
In early 2012 we launched a actions.
It is regularly updated to reflect number of independent and confidential changes in legislation and best practice Employee Assistance Programmes and Code of Conduct training is a EAP in all countries where we have mandatory requirement for all operations.
These free services provide BTG is also a constituent of the Kempen employees.
employees and their families with SNS SRI Universe, which indicates that practical information and advice we have passed stringent criteria and Anti-bribery and corruption concerning a range of topics affecting can be considered a company that In July 2011 the UK Bribery Act came health, family, money matters and work.
demonstrates a clear strategy towards into effect.
Our expanding commercial corporate responsibility.
activities sometimes mean that we find Training and development ourselves operating in parts of the world Continuous learning is one of our core company values.
We recently launched where bribery and corruption are more an annual learning and development prevalent.
We take a zero-tolerance plan for all employees, encompassing approach to illegal activity and we are a range of core skills and mandatory committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter training, IT training, Environment, it.
We recently engaged the services Health and Safety EHS training, and of an agency to assist us with global management development.
also receive annual values training to We have also launched a new antihelp them recognise the importance our 30 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review values play in building a strong paramount and prevail over any Our business is all about people, the business.
We incentivise and reward commercial or business interests.
We business partners we execute deals always protect the confidentiality of trial values-based behaviour by including a with, the colleagues with whom we work subjects and abide by data protection values-based assessment as part of every day, and the investors who support laws.
We have set in place procedures to our annual employee appraisal process.
Most of all, its about our monitor and report any adverse events customers, the patients who are treated Status of targets for 2011 12 during trials to the relevant regulatory with our medicines and the specialist Complete compliance training authorities and we regularly update and healthcare physicians who serve them.
for our new colleagues at former reissue these to reflect changes in Biocompatibles sites and roll out legislation and best practice and provide All of these people depend on us and a compliance certification process training for all relevant employees.
we recognise our responsibility to them.
Complete Horizons 2, the second Status of targets for 2011 12 Louise Makin companywide leadership training Launch online annual Good Clinical Chief Executive Officer programme.
Practices GCP certification training companywide.
Targets for 2012 13 Launch a new process to invite, Responsible and ethical evaluate, approve and implement commercialisation: Further independent programmes grants, standardise and embed the  studies, processes we use to review and continuing medical education, etc.
approve promotional materials that deserve our support.
and external requests for financial A new policy on  support.
studies is due to be launched shortly.
Transparency of business practices: Provide visibility of our interactions Targets for 2012 13 with healthcare professionals and Ensure we continue to meet our utilise robust monitoring and auditing ethical obligations to clinical trial techniques to identify areas of nonsubjects: Update and relaunch our compliance with our policies.
internal procedures to evaluate and Ensuring our business partners respond to any serious adverse share our values, fighting corruption: events in our clinical trials.
Continue to complete due diligence, Launch and complete mandatory per our policies, on third-parties who training for all relevant employees on conduct business on behalf of BTG.
Good Practices GxP, including Good Laboratory Practices GLP, Good 2.
Research and development Clinical Practices GCP and Good We completed a number of clinical Manufacturing Practices GMP.
trials during the last year including Enhance processes for responding to some pivotal Phase III trials of PEM in  studies: Finalise development as a treatment for varicose new  study policy veins.
We perform our clinical trials in and standard operating procedure, accordance with the applicable and provide improved transparency directives laws and the global standards on grant support process.
of good practice, full details of which are on our website.
Suppliers and customers launched online annual Good Clinical Suppliers Practices GCP certification training This year, as part of a new screening for relevant employees and we aim to process conducted when selecting new suppliers of services or materials used expand this training during next year.
in the manufacture of our products, we have started to complete an ethical We obtain written informed consent assessment.
We aim to make this a from trial subjects by providing fair and balanced information to help them requirement over the longer term.
The understand the potential risks and results of the assessment are used by benefits associated with participation us to help identify slavery-related human in a given trial.
The rights, safety and rights concerns, and to inform the well-being of trial subjects are business partner selection process.
31 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate responsibility report We provide information, instruction Status against targets for 2011 12 and training to our employees directly Consolidate our different supplier questionnaires incorporating CR involved in the selection of new suppliers questions to provide evidence of and ongoing management of existing the level of ethical, quality and suppliers.
This training covers compliance practices of BTGs responsibilities for ensuring ethical business practices.
BTG has partner contracts ensure that all work separate supplier questionnaires conducted by business partners on processes in place for ethics our behalf is in accordance with all compliance and quality.
Each has Employees from our Nashville office, applicable laws, regulations, different objectives so after a together with family members, governmental requirements and review the CR team decided that participated in Light the Night Walk, industry guidelines.
the Leukemia and Lymphoma Societys Launch the new quality policy manual annual fundraising walk to raise funds Customers and provide training and development for life-saving research and patient Sales and marketing compliance is for UK employees to emphasise the services.
essential for all companies working in importance of quality throughout the the healthcare industry and mandatory organisation.
compliance training is given annually to Charitable contributions made all employees.
We also recognise our Targets for 2012 13 by the Group during the year obligation to ensure that all adverse Taking responsibility for our supply events are reported, so during the year chain: Formation of a responsible we harmonised pharmacovigilance supply chain policy, including written 5,989 11 12 procedures across the Company for our supplier requirements.
1 12,921 10 11 marketed and named patient products.
Ensuring patients have fair access to our products: Finalise standard 1 Included a 10,000 donation to the Red We pride ourselves on the close operating procedure to make Cross Japanese tsunami appeal.
relationships we forge with the specialist unlicensed medicinal products physicians who prescribe our products.
available for compassionate use During the last year we completed a in the situation where there is no number of educational initiatives aimed distributor in place.
at supporting their treatment of patients.
We commissioned an educational video 4.
Community on the management of North American Charitable giving pit viper envenomation and a treatment Our global Charitable Giving Policy, protocol to provide guidance on using launched in early 2012 aims to ensure CroFab.
that our approach to charitable giving is fair and in line with our company values.
During the year our brachytherapy We give to charities which principally business provided over 4,200 kits either support diseases or conditions in including the loading service to which we are therapeutically focused as patients in North America, Europe and a business or that benefit the local Australia for the treatment of early-stage communities in which we operate.
This business also addition, we encourage employees to operates an indigent patient programme support events to raise money for their to decrease the burden poorer patients chosen charities and we may match may bear in the cost of their treatment.
individual donations up to a cap In certain circumstances, we provide of 250. financial assistance to patients who In the UK we operate a Give As You Earn have no insurance coverage and no scheme.
This enables employees to other source of reimbursement.
donate efficiently, so money that would normally be given in tax goes to their chosen charity instead.
32 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review In October 2011 a number of employees 5.
Environment Lost time accident rate 2011 12 from our Nashville office, together with Health and safety In November 2011, we launched an family members, participated in Light updated global Environment, Health the Night Walk, the Leukemia and 1.29 days 1 and Safety policy and provided training Lymphoma Societys annual fundraising per 100,000 hours worked for all employees.
It states that in line walk to raise funds for life-saving 1 This includes all accidents where one or research and patient services and bring with our values we are committed to more days are lost.
UK companies usually only report when three or more days are lost.
hope to people battling cancer.
This is taking all reasonable measures to particularly relevant to BTG as in early implement the following fundamental 2012 we received US regulatory principles throughout all aspects of approval of Voraxaze, used in the our business and in all regions where Water consumption at treatment of methotrexate toxicity.
we operate: production sites 2011 12 Methotrexate chemotherapy is often We will protect the health and safety used as a treatment for lymphoma.
of all employees, customers and 3 others who come into contact with 21,430m Our London office organised Hunt Your us through our business activities.
London during the year, a team based We will protect the environment treasure hunt around the City of London.
and our communities by minimising Waste from each of our This was a fun team-building exercise any potential adverse effects of our production sites 2011 12 and also raised money for one of our operations.
3 corporate charities, Contact the Elderly.
We will seek to support the long-term growth of our business by reducing During the last year we made donations our environmental impacts and to a number of charities and more increasing our use of renewable information on these is available on resources.
An internal monitoring and auditing Status of targets for 2011 12 system for all sites commenced in 1.
Recycled 345t 40% Launch a new global Charitable 2012.
Hazardous waste Giving Policy to provide guidance to periodically, against this Health and incineration 200t 23% our employees and to ensure we are Safety policy and the underpinning 3.
Landfill 327t 37% fair in our approach to giving and do standards.
so in line with our company values.
This year we have started to report a lost Organise community charitable time accident rate for our employees, activities at each site to raise money the number of lost days per 100,000 for our local corporate charities.
hours worked and average length of time Ongoing.
Activities took place in off during the year.
To be rolled out fully for the next financial year.
Sustainability We recognise that managing our Targets for 2012 13 resources is an essential part of Organise community charitable our commitment to becoming more activities and initiatives at each of sustainable.
We have always monitored our sites to raise money for our local and measured water consumption at corporate charities.
each of our production sites and this Review equivalent options to extend year we have started reporting the figure our Give As You Earn scheme to other publicly.
Water has always been a territories.
valuable resource in Australia and it has become a valuable resource at all of our production sites in recent years as global demand increases.
We recycle as much of our waste as we can.
This year we have started reporting landfill from each of our production sites as a quantitative reflection of our non-recyclable waste.
33 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate responsibility report Electricity consumed during 2011 12 Energy efficiency Status of targets for 2011 12 We regularly assess the environmental Review and restructure Environment, impact of our business to ensure Health and Safety policies across all 1 sites, ensuring common policies are 6,441 MWh that we are taking advantage of all in place and in use.
opportunities to improve our 1 Data from all operational sites with more Drive use of common metrics and than 20 employees, excludes transport.
reporting standards across all sites.
We operate an international supply chain Completed.
for the manufacture of our acute care CO2 equivalent emissions generated 1 products which involves international Targets for 2012 13 during 2011 12 transportation over long distances.
Build a global environmental 3 We aim to transport in bulk where management system.
2 possible and use the most efficient Apply an appropriate intensity metric transportation to save money for the to our energy consumption figures Company and reduce our carbon for 2012 13.
We have a number of Evaluate and set quantative initiatives underway to evaluate whether environmental targets for 2012 13. there are any manufacturing cost 1.
Purchased electricity 3,274t 72% savings or other efficiencies to be made 2.
Oil heating 676t 14% and aim to report progress during the 3.
Gas heating 623t 14% coming financial year.
1 Conversion factors used: We monitor electricity and gas UK electricity, Gas & Oil UK Environment consumption at manufacturing sites Agency 2009. and offices which employ more than Australia & Germany Electricity EA 2008.
20 people, and we try to reduce carbon emissions and increase energy efficiency wherever possible.
This year we have rebased our reported figures providing a new base year for comparison going forwards.
We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
We currently fall below the threshold for participation in the UK governments Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
34 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review DC Bead Interventional Medicine An embolic drug-eluting bead for the treatment of liver tumours, which are particularly prevalent in the Far East due to the high incidence of hepatitis.
