Corporate responsibility report We believe that corporate responsibility is integral to commercial success We appreciate the role that we play as a company in: reducing the impact of our business on the environment: ensuring quality of service to our customers: engaging with the companies in which we invest and exercising our voting rights with care: providing support to the community through charitable giving: and providing a healthy and rewarding working environment for employees.
We believe that corporate responsibility is integral to commercial success and we are committed, wherever practicable, to implementing environmental good practice throughout our business activities.
Overall responsibility for environmental and corporate responsibility resides with Edward Bonham Carter, our Group Chief Executive.
Community As a people-focused business As a major UK corporate we Our charitable giving is driven by As a leading asset manager, whose success is directly believe it is important that we individual employee choice with we believe it is important to integrate environmental and related to the quality and understand our impact on the all employees eligible to join a social issues, where appropriate, competence of our employees, wider environment and look to matched giving payroll scheme.
into our corporate governance we believe it is important to be reduce this wherever possible.
The majority of our charitable and voting policy, through a an organisation where people To help us assess this, we have giving comes through matching programme of constructive want to work and with which commissioned a study of our employee contributions to this dialogue and engagement across they want to be associated.
We carbon footprint in 2012 as a scheme, which empowers our investment portfolios.
have a high level of employee follow-up to our study last year employees to direct donations share ownership.
so that we can assess progress to their nominated charities and set appropriate targets.
and ensures that it is spread across a wide range of charitable activities.
Number of companies engaged Percentage of employees We will review this area Percentage of employees with on governance and or participating in the following the results of taking part in the Give As sustainability issues in 2012.
the 2012 study to see if there You Earn Scheme.
These meetings included fund are areas for improvement prior managers and or members of to any future ofce move to Jupiter's Sustainable Investment new London ofces.
22 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review Customers are kept regularly informed about their investments: 1.
Marketplace professional intermediaries advising clients have access to Our core purpose is to deliver long-term investment outperformance monthly manager reports and fund factsheets: for clients through active management.
We consider that this focus investors in Jupiter funds receive bi-annual statements and is key to delivering shareholder returns.
We tend to invest for the private and institutional clients are issued with periodic long term in concentrated portfolios of securities and emphasise valuation statements to keep them up to date with the progress positive engagement with the companies in which we invest.
of their investments: investment proles are issued to private and institutional clients Transparency, accountability and sustainability are essential to the each year to ensure continued suitability.
Service review meetings success of our business and have become increasingly prominent are also offered to private clients: in the light of market events in recent years.
complaints are investigated and addressed in a consistent, professional and impartial manner.
Where a complaint is not Our customers resolved to the customers satisfaction, the customer is directed As a customer-focused business, we believe it is important to to the Financial Ombudsman Service: and present clearly to customers the services we are providing and our errors made in the processing of customer transactions are ongoing responsibilities to them.
This is reinforced by the regulatory identied, escalated and rectied in a timely manner.
environment within which we operate.
Compensation is paid where appropriate.
We are committed to dealing with investors in our products and our Stewardship clients honestly, openly, competently and with integrity.
Where At Jupiter, we aim to act in the best interests of all our stakeholders appropriate, we have an informed understanding of their needs.
by engaging with the companies in which we invest and by exercising our voting rights with care.
"Not only is this commensurate with good Treating customers fairly ""TCF"" is a core FSA principle intended to market practice, it goes hand in hand with ensuring the responsible promote the fair treatment of customers from product inception, investment of our clients assets."
Equally, we ask companies to through to post-sales support.
We have worked hard to embed present us with their plans for maintaining social and environmental TCF into our culture and we want all our employees to think about sustainability within their business.
TCF, not as a regulatory requirement initiative, but as a fundamental principle.
As appropriate, we will engage and vote on issues affecting the long-term value of a company in which we have invested.
Issues may Products are designed to suit our target customer markets and include, but are not limited to, business strategy, acquisitions and distribution is tailored accordingly in the following ways: disposals, capital raisings and nancing operations, internal controls, risk management, Board effectiveness and succession, shareholder fund literature provides guidance as to the intended target market rights, corporate responsibility, culture and values and remuneration.
and outlines in a transparent manner the potential risks and benets to the end customer: and An amended version of the UK Stewardship Code, which encourages where appropriate, new product concepts are tested prior to investors to engage with the companies in which they have invested launch to ensure that they are suitable for the target audience.
and, where necessary, hold them to account, was published in September.
We support the aims and principles of the UK Customers are provided with clear information about our products Stewardship Code and an explanation of our compliance with the and are kept appropriately informed.
The following steps are taken updated guidelines will shortly be published on our website at to ensure that intermediaries understand how our products work: www.
"sales and marketing material is presented in a manner which can As a leading asset management group, we recognise our be both understood and acted upon easily: responsibility in ensuring that we engage with companies to assess intermediaries are provided with sufficient information to not only financial risks, but also the environmental, social and understand our products in order to give suitable advice to governance ""ESG"" risks that can impact long-term value."
Details of their customers: our policy in this area can be found in the Corporate Governance fund information is clear, fair and not misleading.
It balances the and Voting Policy section of our website at www.
potential benets of the product against the risks of investment: where required, we provide training and additional material to We continue to believe our engagement with companies enhances intermediaries to aid their understanding of our products: and our understanding of key long-term strategic issues, as well as feedback is sought periodically on the effectiveness and clarity providing the appropriate platforms for addressing our concerns of the Groups product design and communications and where it is in the interests of our clients.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 Corporate responsibility report continued During 2012, Jupiter voted at over 2,200 shareholder meetings ESG research into the corporate responsibility performance of worldwide approximately 970 in the UK and 1,240 overseas.
Jupiter companies is incorporated in our investment process and we voted against management, or abstained, on at least one resolution engage with companies where their ESG practices fall short of at 20 per cent.
We engaged with a total of 132 acceptable standards.
companies on sustainability and governance issues.
Full details of our voting and engagement activity can be found in our Voting 2.
Workplace and Engagement report which is available on our website at www.
As a people business, we value our employees and aim to create a positive environment in which employees can work and develop Our stewardship activities in 2012 saw us continue to engage not their skills.
Our culture gives employees the opportunity to perform only with the companies in which we invest, but also with policy and develop as individuals within a structured control and makers, where appropriate.
Most notably, we contributed to governance framework.
consultations on narrative reporting which aims to improve the quality and relevance of information in company reports, executive Diversity remuneration and the Kay Review of UK Equity Markets and We believe that a diverse workforce is better able to service the Long-Term Decision Making, which was launched in June 2011 needs of our clients.
We have an equal opportunities policy and it is and published its report in July 2012. the Companys policy to treat all job applicants and employees fairly and equally, irrespective of gender, marital or civil partnership status, Many of the proposals in the Kay Review play to Jupiter's strengths.
race, colour, national or ethnic origin, disability, religious belief, As an active manager tending to invest for the long term in sexual orientation or age.
We aim to support staff with families concentrated portfolios of stocks and with an emphasis on positive through enhanced maternity and paternity pay and childcare engagement with the companies in which we invest, we would vouchers.
We also offer the option of additional unpaid time off.
welcome any moves to address the negative impact of short 39 per cent.
of Jupiters total workforce is female, with approximately termism in the City.
We are also a signatory to the United Nations Principles for In 2012, we reviewed our work placement scheme.
With the Responsible Investment, which serves to reinforce our commitment backdrop of the UK's current youth unemployment crisis we intend to integrating ESG issues into our investment decision making.
to participate in an industry traineeship programme in 2013.
This aims We participate in a number of joint investor networks and initiatives to give school leavers and recent graduates from diverse to promote sustainable investment and good governance, including backgrounds training and employment for up to one year.
the following: Talent management Carbon Disclosure Project We are a founding signatory of CDP, We place a high value on talent development and performance which was launched in 2000 and conducted its first survey in management.
We encourage the ongoing training and development 2003.
CDP conducts a survey which charts how the worlds largest of all our employees to allow them to maximise their performance companies are addressing the challenges of climate change.
in their roles, assist them in the achievement of corporate objectives The survey rates companies on the depth and scope of their and to reach their potential.
All employees take part in a six-monthly disclosures and the quality of their reporting.
appraisal process where feedback is sought, performance assessed CDP Water Disclosure Project We are a founding signatory to this and training and development needs identied.
In addition, the project that aims to help institutional investors better understand Company regularly provides employees with updates on Company the business risks and opportunities associated with water scarcity performance, strategy and other information that concerns them and other water-related issues by increasing the availability of high through the quarterly staff newsletter and staff meetings.
Our quality information on this issue: and remuneration policy is designed to motivate, aid retention, improve Climate communiqus Bali 2007: Poznan 2008: Copenhagen 2009: individual and corporate performance and align employee behaviour Cancun 2010, 2C Challenge 2011 and Carbon Price 2012 Jupiter with the interests of shareholders.
has been a signatory of all six communiqus, which call on world leaders to agree an ambitious, robust and equitable global deal There has been an increased focus on talent development since on climate change that responds credibly to the scale and urgency the Board considered this topic in December 2011.
In 2012, we of the crisis facing the world today.
commenced a series of talent management initiatives, including executive coaching, recruitment and selection training and the Jupiter is also active in building multi-stakeholder initiatives in introduction of improved management assessment tools aimed at relation to good corporate practice, for example, in relation to the enhancing the people management skills of our senior management.
issue of diversity and women on boards through our involvement The aim of this investment in talent management is to continue in the 30% Club investors group.
We are also members of the to identify, develop and retain our talent so that we can maintain Corporate Sustainability Reporting Coalition which is made up outperformance for clients, good returns for shareholders and of financial institutions, professional bodies, NGOs and investors the long term growth of the business.
managing assets of approximately $2 trillion.
The coalition aims to make sustainability reporting integral to companies' reports and accounts.
24 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review Health and safety In 2012, Jupiter employees worked together to raise funds for many The Board has the responsibility of ensuring that all reasonable charities.
Jupiters Movember team raised over 84,000 for the precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions Movember charity, placing them second out of 31,991 teams in the which are safe and healthy and that comply with all statutory UK.
Employees were also involved with initiatives as diverse as the requirements and all legally binding codes of practice.
Jupiter Bake-Off, Macmillan, the London Poppy Day Appeal and the Citywire Charity Run and pub quiz.
Along with our regular Our Health and Safety policy aims to prevent accidents and to programme of activity, including the Crisis at Christmas Card maintain the health of employees while at work.
The prime Challenge and Jeans for Genes, in 2012 donations totalled 96,000 responsibility for a safe and healthy place to work rests with the 2011: 86,000.
In addition, each employee also has a personal responsibility in this respect.
Jupiter is proud to be a long term sponsor of The Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, having sponsored the Orchestra since 1999.
Over the past 13 years we have established a successful relationship 3.
Environment based on our shared strengths of quality and innovation.
Jupiter has also been involved as a category sponsor of the Observer Ethical In common with service industry companies in general, the direct Awards since 2008.
We are currently sponsoring the Business environmental effects of our operations largely relate to facilities Initiative award which champions those large or small businesses management and travel.
However, until we move into new London who are taking sustainability to the next level, creating the new premises, there is a limit to how much we can achieve in the area of breakthrough business model.
Environmental performance is one of the key criteria in our search for new premises.
In 2012, we carried out an Jupiter is planning to send three executives on a London Business employee survey to obtain employees views on the criteria for School Programme 'The Good Business' in 2013.
The programme selecting new premises and 95 per cent.
of permanent employees focuses on the ethics and challenges facing businesses and is responded to the survey.
intended to lead to specic steps that can be taken by Jupiter to respond to these challenges.
Pending a move to new London premises, we have introduced a range of initiatives to help minimise our impact on the environment.
These include the introduction of a printer management system, video and audio conferencing and the provision of facilities to encourage employees to cycle to work.
The employee survey showed that 14 per cent.
of respondents cycle as part of their commute to work.
Carbon survey: We have recently commissioned a 2012 carbon footprint study.
This will help us to minimise our carbon emissions and see if there are areas for improvement prior to a move to new London ofces.
Community Charitable giving Our charitable giving is focused on enabling employees to direct giving, rather than being driven by corporate level decisions.
We operate a company-wide matched giving scheme, for which all UK employees are eligible.
Jupiter matches the employee contribution.
We encourage our employees to make direct contributions to their nominated charities.
This has the benefit of ensuring our giving is spread across a wide range of charitable activities and organisations with which our employees have a close afnity.
Our matched giving programme operates both through a Give As You Earn Scheme and by matching funds raised through employees participating in fund raising events for charity.
Over 100 employees currently participate in our Give As You Earn Scheme.
We are extending the double matching scheme into the 2013 14 tax year and this will enable employees to double-match charitable donations up to a total contribution from Jupiter of 800 per employee per year.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 26 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Governance 28 Risk management and internal controls report 31 Directors responsibility statement 32 Directors proles 34 Corporate governance report 38 Remuneration report 55 Audit Committee report 57 Nomination Committee report 58 Directors report Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27
