CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR APPROACH To transform our strategy into tangible OUR BUSINESS RELIES ON activities we undertake the following steps: DEVELOPING STRONG AND SET POLICY STABLE RELATIONSHIPS WITH ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS SEEK AND ACT ON DEVISE AND STAKEHOLDER MAINTAIN WHICH REQUIRES US TO FEEDBACK SYSTEMS MANAGE OUR BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY, MAKING MEASURE AND COMMUNICATE MONITOR SUSTAINABLE, LONG TERM AND REPORT TO PERFORMANCE STAKEHOLDERS CR METRICS DECISIONS.
Further details of the Groups CR policies, processes and controls and how they are monitored are available in the Responsibility section of the Companys website, www.
STRATEGY 2013 objectives We believe that Corporate Responsibility CR is not only about the good t Review the CR training modules to identify any gaps and, if appropriate, management of our business but also excellent and responsive long term add to the existing e-learning modules.
relationships with all our stakeholders, whether customers, employees or suppliers.
We have identied seven CR elements relevant to our business t Taking into account the results of our monitoring and reviewing of the model: business conduct code of ethics: employees: health & safety: existing policies, processes and controls, makeany necessary environment: community: customers: and suppliers.
These are governed amendments thereto as well as considering further training and or by a policy framework, which is approved and monitored by the Board, communication requirements that may be necessary.
with implementation at a business area level.
EMPLOYEES BUSINESS CONDUCT CODE OF ETHICS Bunzl currently operates in 27 countries worldwide.
We are a service The Groups business conduct code of ethics policy is disseminated to provider, not a manufacturer and, as such, our business relies heavily on every employee as a guide to how employees are expected to conduct the skills and experience of our employees.
We pride ourselves on the fact themselves both from a corporate and individual perspective.
The policy that we run our businesses locally with local managers.
We do not unfairly clearly states that employees should avoid conicts of interest, provides discriminate and we respect human rights.
We seek to recruit the right guidance on the giving and receiving of gifts and entertainment, prohibits people who are passionate about our business and provide opportunities illegal payments as well as political donations and reinforces the need to for people to progress within the organisation on the basis of their skills, comply with laws, rules and regulations, protect condential information experience and aptitude.
We believe that to get the best from people and company assets and maintain high standards in relationships with we need to respect each other and encourage honest, straightforward our customers and suppliers.
Our acquisition pipeline continues to be a valuable source of management talent for the Group and the completion of a No material breaches of our business conduct code of ethics policy were number of acquisitions during the year has brought further highly skilled recorded in 2012.
However, some minor incidents relating to employee people into Bunzl.
conduct, such as theft or misuse of the Groups property, did occur and were dealt with during the normal course of business using Group human Performance against 2012 objectives resource HR policies and procedures.
Seven 2011: seven calls letters t The 2012 Employee Survey was run which covered all employees in were received through the Speak Up process, none of which raised any UK & Ireland, Continental Europe and Rest of the World which together issues of material concern.
represent two thirds of the Groups workforce.
A variety of actions have subsequently been implemented in different businesses across the Performance against 2012 objectives Group as a result of feedback from the survey, for example the t By April 2012 all management and sales and purchasing staff across the introduction of more exible working, improved communication Group had undertaken a suite of nine tailored e-learning modules which and teambriengs.
highlight the key responsibilities of employees in relation to CR.
One of the modules provides an overview of the business conduct code of t We have also continued to monitor key HR measures: ethics policy and this is supplemented by modules relating to antivoluntary turnover remains at low levels in all business areas other bribery issues such as facilitation payments and gifts and entertainment.
than Rest of the World, reecting the current economic conditions A further module details our whistle blowing process Speak Up.
These within the countries in which we operate rather than any intrinsic modules now form part of the induction process for managers and sales reasons related to the Group: and and purchasing staff who join the Group.
From inception to date there sickness absence has fallen slightly in Continental Europe, remained have been at total of approximately 19,000 viewings of the modules.
at in North America and Rest of the World and slightly increased in t During the year our internal audit department monitored and reviewed UK & Ireland.
No underlying issues of concern have been identied.
many of the new processes and procedures introduced in 2011 as a consequence of the Bribery Act, such as the enhanced Gifts Register 2013 objectives to ensure that both gifts received and given are recorded by employees t Continue to monitor key HR measures such as voluntary turnover, in all companies in the Group.
Any areas of non-compliance have been sickness absence, training days, workforce gender and age mix and, highlighted and the relevant processes and controls have subsequently as appropriate, take action to address any issues that may arise.
In addition we have strengthened our Quality Assurance and Quality Control QA QC function based in Shanghai to ensure that we are able to ensure that our suppliers in the Far East are maintaining appropriate ethical standards.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED WE WORK CONTINUOUSLY WITH OUR EMPLOYEES, SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS TO IMPROVE OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY PRACTICES, AS WELL AS DECREASING ALL OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS IMPACTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT BY EFFICIENT ROUTE PLANNING, SAFE DRIVING AND REDUCING WASTE.
11% DECREASE IN SCOPE 1 CARBON EMISSION RATES.
12% IMPROVEMENT IN ACCIDENT INCIDENCE RATE.
28 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 t Review and assess the benets of the introduction into UK & Ireland Our direct water usage and emissions are minimal.
Water usage is in 2012 of an IT based networking tool and to consider the potential principally confined to workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes.
In 2012 application of the tool across the Group to improve communication we monitored water usage across a sample of our sites worldwide.
This and share best practice.
confirmed the conclusions drawn from the 2011 water audit.
We will continue to monitor both usage and emissions going forward.
HEALTH & SAFETY The health and safety of our employees and other stakeholders is a ISO 14001 accreditation was renewed in a number of locations.
Although we try to minimise the risks which occur, particularly all sites in UK & Ireland, Australasia and many sites in Continental Europe relating to the operation of our warehouses and vehicles, incidents relating are accredited.
By revenue this represents more than 30% of the Group.
to manual handling, slipping and tripping remain the highest cause of accidents.
Regretfully in 2012 there was a fatality 2011: no fatalities Performance against 2012 objectives when a member of the public died in a road trafc accident in North The reported environmental data has been restated as a result of the America having collided with a Bunzl vehicle that was parked on the hard disposal of our vending business in August 2011 and double reporting shoulder.
This accident was fully investigated and Bunzl was found not to of fuel from some locations in previous years and updated in accordance be at fault.
A number of actions have been taken to raise awareness and with the Defra carbon conversion factors published in 2012.
These continue to improve our health and safety performance.
updated factors have been applied retrospectively to 2010 and 2011 to develop the Group Carbon Footprint given in the table below: Performance against 2012 objectives Greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 October to 30 September t The 2012 target was to reduce the Group accident incidence rate by 3% e and the Group accident severity rate by 5% from the 2011 accident rates: Tonnes of CO 2 Base year 2010 2011 2012 for the year ended 30 September 2012 our accident incidence rate Scope 1 93,125 89,286 84,727 improved by 12%.
This was principally due to better performance in Scope 2 30,117 28,637 27,497 North America, UK & Ireland and Continental Europe: and Total gross emissions 123,242 117,923 112,224 for the same period our accident severity rate increased by 3%.
Total carbon emissions This was principally due to a slight increase in Rest of the World per m revenue 26.1 23.6 21.2 and a relatively at performance in the rest of the Group.
In the previous year the accident severity rate improved by 29%.
t Our target for 2012 was to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions relative to revenue by 13% and 14% respectively from the Details of our performance from 2010 to 2012 are provided in the bar 2010 base year.
These gures cover more than 95% of the Group by charts below.
The accident data provided is for the whole Group with the revenue as businesses recently acquired are not yet included.
exception of some of the most recent acquisitions which represent less than 1% of the total workforce.
t Scope 1: emission rates per m of revenue have decreased between 2011 and 2012 by 11% see the KPI bar chart on page 7 and from 2013 objectives 2010, our base year, by 19%.
Fuel for transportation contributes about t Reduce the Group accident incidence rate by 3% from 2012.
The level of fuel consumed per 000 of revenue decreased between 2011 and 2012 by 8% see t Reduce the Group accident severity rate by 6% from 2012. the KPI bar chart on page 7.
Fuel efficiency has increased through improved driver behaviour as a result of training and the use of ENVIRONMENT telematics providing in-cab feedback on performance.
In addition we We seek to prevent, mitigate and remediate the harmful effects of Bunzls regularly renew our eet and new vehicles introduced in the UK are operations on the environment.
To ameliorate our impact on and exposure showing significant reductions in fuel consumption.
Many of the to climate change, our facilities operate worldwide to Group standards, we businesses acquired since 2010 do not operate their own transport promote environmental awareness throughout the business and our eets and there has been some transfer from own eet to carriers branch network mitigates against the effects of extreme local climate where this has been shown to be more cost effective.
Our reported environmental data includes all businesses that consumption has been positively affected by a number of site are subsidiaries of the Group for financial reporting purposes, with the consolidations, a focus on usage and boiler maintenance and exception of recent acquisitions which are excluded from environmental a relatively warm winter.
data reporting to allow the acquired businesses sufficient time to adopt our reporting guidelines.
Bunzl had no environmental incidents in 2012. t Scope 2: emission rates per m of revenue have decreased between 2011 and 2012 by 9% see the KPI bar chart on page 7 and from 2010, our base year, by 19%.
We have continued to implement a number of measures to reduce electricity consumption including the installation of energy efficient lighting systems and voltage optimisation INCIDENCE RATE SEVERITY RATE equipment, replacement of battery chargers with high frequency energy efficient chargers and Switch off campaigns.
During 2012 the Group invested more than 500,000 in a further 10 projects with payback AVERAGE NUMBER OF AVERAGE NUMBER OF periods of up to three years giving estimated annual savings of almost INCIDENTS PER MONTH DAYS LOST PER MONTH PER 100,000 EMPLOYEES.
t North America appointed waste disposal contractors who are able to provide us with data on the weight of waste collected from our sites.
4,863 As data was not available for the whole of 2012 we have extrapolated 159 157 the full years data from a sample of three months.
Through the year 3,552 3,446 140 there has been an improvement in the segregation of waste, with some of our facilities achieving zero waste to landll.
Where segregation of waste for recycling is not possible we continue to seek an increase of waste to incineration in preference to landll.
10 11 12 10 11 12 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED WASTE TONNES PER m REVENUE undertook a number of activities to support St Lukes mission, which helps the Buffalo areas needy, and six Bunzl Phoenix employees participated in a five kilometre Race for the Cure in support of breast INCINERATED WASTE cancer research.
In Shanghai a number of employees undertook a GENERAL WASTE sponsored run to support UNICEF.
In the UK employees have raised RECOVERED RECYCLED WASTE funds through cycling from London to Paris for the Alzheimers Society and taking part in Olympic themed activities to raise monies for PALS, a charity that provides leisure activities for children and young people 0.21 with physical and or sensory disabilities.
0.08 0.55 t For the seventh consecutive year North America was honoured with a 0.93 Greater St Louis Top 50 Business Shaping our Future Award from the 1.96 StLouis Regional Commerce and Growth Association.
Bunzl was honoured for being among the best companies in its eld and for 1.14 making significant contributions to the St Louis region and the future of its business community.
In the UK, one of Greenhams managers was awarded the British Safety Industry Federations first ever Outstanding Contribution Award for being an outstanding contributor to 11 12 improvements in Occupational Health & Safety.
The bar chart shows waste indexed against revenue of those businesses t We continued to make a number of in-kind donations of goods.
The 2011 data includes UK & Ireland, parts of Continental UK, the majority of such donations have been made through In-Kind Europe and Australasia only.
The 2012 data includes these areas as well Direct and Crisis at Christmas.
In North America donations of sanitation as, for the first time, North America.
As a result, the waste data reported and foodservice products were made to assist the families struck by the for 2012 covers 91% of the Group by revenue.
Although there has been tragedy in Connecticut when 27 people were killed at Sandy Hook improvement in waste management in the Group, the primary driver of the Elementary School in Newton.
reduction in the index shown in the chart is the inclusion of North America in the 2012 statistics.
Obtaining accurate waste data continues to be 2013 objectives challenging.
Now we have the majority of the Group providing such data, t Continue to strengthen the links of the business with the communities going forward we will be better able to measure our waste streams and in which we operate, supporting employee fundraising and charitable identify trends and opportunities to improve waste management.
projects in the elds of environment and healthcare.
2013 objectives t Improve our corporate website to communicate better Bunzls approach t Using the 2010 data as the baseline, reduce the Scope 1 and 2 carbon to Corporate Responsibility and improve community awareness.
CUSTOMERS t Continue to improve the accuracy of waste data and include this as As a service business, our ability both to anticipate and meet our Scope 3 data.
customers needs is key to our success.
We strive to ensure that we provide high levels of service.
We achieve this by building solid t Review current reporting practices and prepare for mandatory relationships at a local level by regularly meeting with and seeking environmental reporting.
In line with our 2012 objective we have continued to provide innovative service and product solutions to meet our COMMUNITY customers needs including requirements to meet sustainability goals.
Although Bunzls operations are international, our strength is in the local nature of our businesses.
In keeping with this ethos, we particularly Performance against 2012 objective support the fund raising activities championed by our employees locally.
t In the Netherlands we introduced a new environmentally friendly This is supplemented by donations made at Group level to charities laundry bag and a green carrier bag for fruit and vegetables.
Our predominantly in the elds of healthcare, disability and the environment as guest amenities business in Europe launched a sustainable and well as benevolent societies to support projects in communities where our environmentally friendly handwash and shampoo dispenser.
Where possible and appropriate, Bunzl also looks to of UK businesses have been working with customers to provide a donate stock free of charge in-kind.
Group wide, Bunzl donated a total closed loop waste recycling service which supplements the work we of 480,000 2011: 444,000 to charities in 2012.
This does not include continue to do with suppliers to reduce the amount of packaging used in-kind donations or employee fund raising.
Performance against 2012 objectives t The Group has received a number of awards from our customers t We continued to support projects with a high environmental impact including North Americas Processor Division being the proud recipient on the communities in which we operate.
In the UK this has included of the Spirit of Excellence Award from Hormel Foods for the 15th year donating towards the provision of outdoor play equipment for Alexander for achieving or exceeding a 92% supplier rating during a 12 month Park in Belfast: supporting a community project Seeds, Soups and period and the R3 Safety team was named as the 2011 Distributor Sarnies being run by the Eden Project to bring communities together Partners of America DPA Safety Supplier of the Year.
In the UK around the themes of plant, grow, share and eat and also by Bunzl Retail won Supplier of the Year from Boots and Bunzl Cleaning assisting Groundwork in Leicester to convert the EcoHouse into an & Hygiene Supplies won Supplier of the Year from ISS.
Ecoactivity Centre for young people.
Other larger donations were made to support healthcare initiatives, which assist both our employees and 2013 objective the communities in which they live, through Macmillan Cancer Support, t Continue to provide innovative products and improve customer service.
Diabetes UK and the Alzheimers Society.
t Group companies and employees worldwide have continued to support local charitable initiatives.
In North America employees raised money for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, while employees in Buffalo 30 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SUPPLIERS Performance against 2012 objective Bunzl has relationships with many suppliers.
We want our suppliers to t During the year we have reviewed our key suppliers, i. e. those suppliers meet the same CR standards we set ourselves and to that end we have that provide us with approximately 50% of our products by value.
set up our own QA QC department as part of our purchasing ofce in Shanghai.
Our QA QC staff perform regular audits of many of our Asian 2013 objectives suppliers and work with them to implement appropriate CR standards.
t Contact any new key suppliers as identied to update them on our During the year we have increased the stafng of this department.
CR aspirations and to encourage them to adopt a similar approach.
Although the team is based in Shanghai, they make regular trips to other parts of Asia to undertake audits as required.
t Continue to build long term sustainable relationships with our key suppliers.
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES The Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 25 and 26 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis the following CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identied together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks: Risk Mitigating factors CR compliance failures Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in a variety The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures including of issues including those relating to inappropriate business practices, those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in place throughout the accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of waste or carbon business as well as an established reporting framework.
Loss of key employees The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on strong The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive customer and supplier relationships which are built up locally.
Stability packages, development opportunities and career progression.
of key relationship roles amongst the Groups employees is therefore Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which important.
enables any issues to be identied and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities unavailability of staff Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups facilities being one location as a result of which the Group usually has the ability to affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
distribute products from nearby facilities.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers non-compliance with good CR practices The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international suppliers The Groups key suppliers are principally publicly owned multinational across the world.
The failure of one of the Groups key suppliers to adhere organisations with high standards of operations.
Suppliers are monitored to recognised CR standards could affect the Groups reputation.
by the Groups purchasing departments and the QA QC department based in China audits many suppliers throughout Asia.
Key suppliers are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment.
The principal opportunities include: Opportunity Response Environment Throughout the world there is an increased awareness of the need Bunzl is not a manufacturer and therefore there is complete exibility to conserve resources and reduce carbon emissions.
to offer products that meet customers requirements.
A full range of environmentally friendly products are available.
The Group provides customers with the ability to benefit from a consolidated delivery of their consumable products.
This reduces carbon emissions by eliminating the need for multiple deliveries from many different suppliers and streamlining the related administration for our customers.
Climate change Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather There is likely to be an increase in demand for protective clothing to conditions such as oods, cyclones and heavy snowfall.
cope with climate change as well as the need for other products supplied by the Group, such as cleaning and hygiene products.
Employees Competition for good quality people continues to be strong.
A key element of Bunzls strategy is the acquisition of high quality businesses.
This results in a number of motivated, high performing people joining the Group each year.
It also brings new ideas and fresh approaches to the business which can be utilised elsewhere in the Group.
Health & safety Throughout the world there has been an increase in health & safety This leads to an increased demand from both existing and new legislation and an emphasis on safe working environments.
customers for the Groups personal protection equipment as well as providing the potential to introduce new innovative products in this area.
