hopes for a sustained global economic recovery continue to be thwarted by ongoing austerity programmes, fears over sovereign debt and the inability or unwillingness of banks to lend.
Yet at the same time, uK insurance companies need to build growth against a backdrop of relentless regulatory change.
PoLiticaL anD econoMic whilst the recession and resulting environMent austerity create a tough environment, The current global political and they have also given us some economic environment is dominated, advantages, including a greater need to a large extent, by how governments for risk sharing by helping pension and central banks drive economies schemes fide-risk their liabilities, out of recession by stimulating growth, providing guaranteed retirement while reducing unsustainably high income for pensioners andproviding debt levels.
In the UK: affordable protection plans for companies and individuals.
Growth has been much weaker than most commentators expected we also believe that we have Unemployment, of almost 8%, animportant role to play in helping is markedly higher than before governments manage central spending the crisis budgets through greater take-up of Inflation, despite falling from products that provide protection for 5% in October 2011 to around people who might otherwise have 2.5% today, remains above the torely on state benefits.
2% target Living standards have been Recent announcements on the squeezed for longer than at any introduction of a simplified single time in living memory, with the state pension in 2017 could mean that real value of wages falling by 3% consumers now have greater incentives over the last three years, taking to save for retirement, knowing that earnings back to 2003 levels.
the level of private pensions will not affect their entitlement to state benefits.
In the same way, the governments reform of unemployment and 8 annual report and accounts 2012 68906 L&G p004-023.
indd 8 16 03 2013 02:56 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn GREY mATTERs OUR AGEiNG pOpULATiON disability benefits may encourage individuals to consider private incomeprotection cover.
European population growth 1950-2050 Millions Economic overview 800 The global economy has managed 700 to muddle through significant 600 challenges over the past 12 months.
But there has been a stark divergence 500 in performance between advanced 400 and developing economies.
Demand 300 in advanced economies has barely grown with the euro area particularly 200 weak, reflecting concerns about the 100 solvency of several member states.
0 But demand in emerging economies 1950 1975 2000 2025 2050 continued to grow rapidly in the yearas a whole.
Given emerging Source: United Nations Population Division 0-19 20-49 50-59 60 economies are far more important today than a few years ago almost The ageing of most western populations poses considerable 40% of global demand in 2011 challenges forgovernments.
in the UK, by 2030, over-60s compared with 25% in 2004, global will have grown from 22.6% of the population to 27.8% in growth was only slightly below its just 20years and the average 60-year-old woman will live long-run average of 3% last year.
Longevity and an ageing population are impacting UK government policy in threesignificant ways: Global growth World trade and industrial production The reduced ratio of the workingpopulation to the retired population makes it difficult to raise sufficient revenue from income-related stalled last summer, partly reflecting concerns about the future of the euro, taxes to finance central spending.
This has been partially remedied but also the delayed effect of previous by raising the retirement age.
policy tightening in emerging The state finds it difficult to finance retirement pensions.
Solutions economies to combat inflation forthis problem include the encouragement of private pension pressures.
A combination of the saving and changes inthe retirement age and statepensions.
European Central Banks president Central government and local authorities are already finding it promising to do whatever it takes difficult to finance the costs of social care for elderly people.
While to save the euro, and policy easing the current generation is potentially able to contribute towards the in emerging economies, led to costs through releasing housing equity, future generations may a recovery in industrial confidence find this more difficult.
Again we believe that a partnership between insurance companies and LEGAL AND REGULATORY the state can help to solve many of these problems.
Auto enrolment The impact of regulation on the should enable many millions of people to build better retirement Groups strategy is likely to continue pensions.
The insurance industry can also work with the government to toincrease: the current pace and encourage people toplan much earlier in life for long-term care costs.
depth of regulatory reform and We see the recent government announcement on social care funding supervisory activity is already high reform as an important first step and we look forward tohelping the and there are indications that this government find solutions to this difficult problem.
The changes fall into threecategories: The new pensions auto enrolment rules mean more lower and middle earners will have access to a private pension.
This, together Delivery of current known UK with the expected reduction in pension allowances, should mean andEU regulatory initiatives.
that a greater, fairer, proportion of available pensions tax relief will Adapting to the changed UK benefit these lower and middle earners.
We believe that retaining regulatory architecture.
pension tax relief to encourage people in saving for retirement Adapting the way we do business remains important.
under the new regulatory culture.
annual report and accounts 2012 9 Our PrOgress MARKEt EnvIROnMEnt COntInUED Delivery of current known UK Gender directive: The implementation OUtlOOK and EU regulatory initiatives: of the EUs gender directive, which Although some of the current key Solvency II: Current indications forbids price discrimination on the regulatory initiatives will, over time, suggest that the implementation basis of gender, was implemented become business as usual, they of the long-awaited EU-wide in December 2012. represent only a proportion of the requirements on capital adequacy wide-ranging suite of more detailed and risk management rules is unlikely Mortgage Market Review MMR : regulatory change initiatives and new before 2017.
The final details of The FSA recently consulted on a overarching standards and themes Solvency II are still to be resolved and major package of regulatory reforms that we see currently unfolding.
Our the overall timeline for development for the mortgage market, setting business will need to understand and of the full rules remains challenging.
out new standards for, among respond to each as they take shape We remain particularly concerned other things, responsible lending, and crystallise.
As a result, over the that there should be appropriate disclosure, suitability and distribution coming years, we expect to operate stabilising measures to dampen of mortgage products.
In its response in an environment of continued volatility and pro-cyclicality for to this consultation, the FSA has regulatory change.
For example: providers of long-dated financial indicated that MMR reforms will products and we are encouraged by be implemented in April 2014.
Implementation reviews of the progress made to develop these flagship policy initiatives: measures, including the matching Retail Conduct EU Directives: Given the volume of new adjustment for annuity products.
The Commissions reviews of the regulation that has been Markets in Financial Instruments formulated, we expect both Retail Distribution Review RDR : Directive MiFID, Insurance Mediation UK and EU regulators to make The RDR changes, which applied to Directive IMD, Undertakings for further changes to these regimes advised sales of retail investment Collective Investments in Transferable in the light of, for example, products, came into force on Securities UCITS and the new post-implementation reviews.
The RDR banned Packaged Retail Investment Products The EU increasing harmonisation product providers from paying PRIPs proposals may bring about through more direct conduct commission to advisers.
It also changes to the way most insurance and regulation with initiatives such required advisers to change the investment products are sold in the UK.
as the new PRIPs proposals and way they describe their services to the reviews of the MiFID and customers, including the way they will Adapting to the changed IMD regimes being examples.
Furthermore, UKregulatory architecture Corporate Governance is also it required advisers to meet new The Financial Services Act 2012 given greater emphasis, in both professional qualification standards.
means the FSA will be replaced with specific Directives and new the Prudential Regulation Authority dedicated proposals.
Pensions reform: From 1 October PRA, the Financial Conduct Authority 2012, the first tranche of employers FCA and the Financial Policy were required to enrol most of their Committee FPC, from 1 April 2013. current and future employees into These changes give rise to: a workplace pension scheme.
This requirement will be rolled out Regulatory culture and focus: across all employers over several We expect the new regulators to use years.
Auto enrolment is a significant their powers both more assertively and act of Government intervention into frequently to deliver their objectives, pensions.
With full implementation, act more quickly and be more the Department of Work and Pensions judgement-based, with a lower risk expects between six and nine million appetite than the FSA.
new participants in pension saving.
Enhanced regulatory powers: The Financial Services Act provides the new regulators with fresh powers to support their regulation and supervision of firms.
