Our APPrOACH ouR SocIAl PuRPoSe.
JoHn PollocK, cHIeF eXecuTIVe oFFIceR PRoTecTIon AnD AnnuITIeS Insurance has a powerful social purpose.
We make a promise to our customers that we will be there to stand behind that promise when disaster or tragedy strikes.
our clear aim is to be a force for good in society, make every day matter for our customers and staff and live by the promises we make in our high quality products.
ouR Role In SocIeTy informed business that interacts with experts in the outside world is a better Although our business priorities run business.
areensuring that we deliver value toour shareholders and customers, To do this we: we also believe that our role in talk to the specialists who society isbroader than simply the understand how we can help financial impact of what we do.
our customers more effectively: play an active role in the In its simplest form, we believe that communities that we are part our purpose is to help make financial of: and security easier toachieve.
To do this, share our resources to help we aim to provide good value, high charities who benefit society.
quality products for our customers.
In this section of our report we There are a number of issues central will outline a variety of social issues, to the wellbeing of society where explain the relevance to us as a we have an interest and a degree of business and then outline the influence, and therefore a responsibility work we have undertaken and to engage in broader debate.
A better the relationships we have made to work towards improving outcomes.
indd 36 16 03 2013 03:07 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn HouSIng MATTeRS quarter this valuable service provides landlords support andprovide around 60 people with someone who for them.
Housing needs are a key issue in stands side by side with them in court theUK with increasing costs and to help them avoid losing their home We have also provided joint alack of supply in many areas.
and around 300 people with face-toresearchand insights into the impact We interact with the housing sector face advisory sessions to help with that longevity is having on retirement on anumber of levels: as a provider housing issues.
housing supply through Joseph Lu, ofinsurance policies that cover Legal & Generals Longevity expert.
peoples homes, their income or FlooDIng AnD THe RnlI perhaps thevalue oftheir mortgage We have begun working with the The eAC team have also provided upon death: asapoint of access RNLI and Association of British valuable training and understanding to the mortgagemarket: and as a Insurers ABI to understand the true for Legal & General employees provider of funding for residential impact of flooding in the UK and the calledHelping Mum and Dad and commercialproperty.
impact of the Governments schemes Anticipating Needs and Aspirations to address this.
in Later Life toenable them to WoRKIng WITH SHelTeR understand the challenges that our our long term partnership with We are providing training for front employees mayface as the children Shelter continues.
With their input linehome insurance employees of ageing parents when looking at wehave developed a home contents attheRNLIs flood training centre retirement housing needs and options insurance product for social housing sothatthey can better understand for theirloved ones.
providers after discovering that access andempathise with our customers to contents insurance was an issue aboutwhat its really like to be We have worked with eAC toresearch formany social housing residents.
the needs of older peoplewhen they select their annuity provider.
The We have also developed a new We are planning a number of outcome of this research, the HooP CapitalLoans business through initiatives in 2013, which will enable Housing options for older People, our investment arm, LGIM, which usto further understand the real wasrelaunched in2012 and provides provides much needed loans to social impacts that flooding has on valuable insights into the ways that housing providers who need capital ourcustomers.
to grow their housing stock.
our aim is to lend to these organisations eAC and its partners have also asbanks deleverage their balance PenSIoneR PoVeRTy provided some valuable insights into sheets and withdraw from this sector.
MATTeRS the long term needs in retirement This matches our need for fixed housing to our home insurance, income investments, which allow Financial security in retirement commercial property and mortgage us to pay our annuity customers largely depends on having a stable club businesses.
income, which our products and services aim to provide.
We help WoRKIng WITH Age uK During the year we have hosted a people to save for retirement We continue to work with Age UK number of industry debates on the through a pension, either individually totrain front line employees on the economic Case for Housing, bringing or through their employer, and then needs and requirements of older together a range of experts from this provide an income through an customers and the different level sector to discuss the many aspects annuity.
We have been actively ofservice that they may require of this issue from lack of supply to involved in Government consultations fromus.
the pressures that estate agency fees on changes to the state pension and have on the landlord and the impacts auto enrolment and on the issue We have provided front line employees that has on the tenant.
Wehave also oflong term care funding.
with access to the Age UK Befriending worked with the charity HACT on the Scheme.
This means employees can social impact of housing.
WoRKIng WITH THe elDeRly work with older people on a weekly AccoMMoDATIon counSel basis, providing regular contact and We have also funded front line eAc help toalleviate loneliness.
Their We continue to support the eACs West Sussex Shelter is a walk-in and National Housing forolder People Working with Age UK we jointly outreach service, giving advice to Awards, which aredesigned to help created the Living on 70 a week tenants and homeowners who are residents of retirement housing initiative where 130 of our employees facing housing difficulties.
each to independently rank how their annual report and accounts 2012 37 68906 L&G p034-051.
indd 37 16 03 2013 03:07 Our APPrOACH ouR SocIAl PuRPoSe conTInueD lived on the State pension to people.
We provide direct support SAVIngS MATTeRS understand some of the pressures on the development of their marketing our Savings Business provides thatour customers would face materials.
In return, we have learned investment and savings products without a pension.
This coincided more about the issues and challenges that allow people to plan for the with the roll-out of auto enrolment of encouraging people to start saving.
Saving which has provided a valuable isnt always easy.
We have a range waytoget a younger workforce to our work together has been shortlisted ofcommunity projects to help understand theneeds for pensions.
for the Financial Services Forum people take the first steps to save Awards for marketing effectiveness fortheir future.
As the economic Through our jointventure, IndiaFirst, in2013 and recent discussions show climate continues to challenge all we have worked with HelpAge India areal parallel between the issues ofus financially, more and more to support their Mumbai-based faced by our customers and those consumers are aware of the need Mobile Medicare Unit MMU in customers walking into a credit union.
tosave while having more calls providing valuable front line services on their income than ever.
As a to the elderly who find ithard to WoRKIng WITH cHARITIeS AID financial services company, we access medical services.
TheMMU FounDATIon cAF AnD neSTA believe it is part of our role to covers 22slum areas of Mumbai In 2012, we secured a joint venture support a cross-generational savings giving free treatment to over 2,000 with CAF Bank and the charity NeSTA culture and to help people at the patients over the age of 65 each month.
to provide much needed loans, fringes of our traditional marketplace.
mentoring and consultancy for the our products are aimed at people TAX AnD ouR cuSToMeRS social enterprise sector in Brighton who regularly save.
But we also need During 2012, we have continued to and Hove.
We are providing interestto understand the attitudes of the work with Tax Help for older People free loans, where an independent next generation and guide them into TaxHelp, a charity providing free, community board decides which adopting a prudent attitude to savings.
expert, independent tax advice organisations within their community for people over 60 who live in a receive funding.
WoRKIng WITH WeST SuSSeX household with a net income of AnD SuRRey SAVe less than 17,000 a year.
We are This has provided us with valuable cReDITunIonS delighted to work in partnership insight into the way that we can Following our four year commitment with TaxHelp, financially supporting provide alternative sources of to provide marketing support to their valuable work and in return finance to smallbusinesses.
certain Credit Unions, we have receiving assistance and training seen more success within these for our customer services teams our plan in 2013 is to expand this to organisations in attracting savers and to better understand the needs of more cities to highlight this important advancing loans.
our initial work with our older customers.
Weve also part of the economy.
the east Sussex Credit Union and been able to refer some of our West Sussex Credit Union has now customers with more complex WoRKIng WITH extended to Surrey save who have, tax affairs to TaxHelp for advice.
MAgnIFIeDleARnIng in their first year of trading, attracted Throughout 2012 we have 409 savers and provided loans to 55 developedour Money, Money, Money Programme into a movement providing practical financial education that hasreached over 5,800 young people in 18 schools and involved over 300 Legal &General employees over the last three years.
We have learnt a lot along the way, which has big implications for the way we run our business.
In 2012, our research showed that 71% of young people expected to buy financial products face to face and that cars, university and holidays would be the top areas of spend if 14 to 16 year-olds were given 10,000.
indd 38 16 03 2013 03:07 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn We also created the Step up for Working with a number of charities, latest tools and techniques to deal Success SUFS programme providing we have provided valuable training with stress.
We also have regular 60 young people who were predicted foremployees handling calls from policy discussions on the latest borderline grades C-e for GCSe customers with a critical illness.
mental health issues andrun joint with an intensive work placement ourclaims teams have been working branding and marketing activity at key programme, a level 2GCSe Young with a number of charities to enhance events and seminars.
Consultant qualification and a FTSe the service we offer to our customers.
In exchange, We also direct customers to relevant In September, we launched a new wegained valuable insight into the charities for additional support campaign, Stress in the City, aimed ways in which Legal & General can whereappropriate.
atraising awareness of stress and attract a younger consumer through mental health illnesses in the financial the effective use of social media.
organisations who have provided services sector.
The campaign won training and expertise to our front praise from Charles Walker MP, This programme achieved great line teams include the Samaritans, Chair of the All Party Parliamentary outcomes against the national Macmillan and Friendly Faces.
Group for Mental Health, who, benchmarks for work placements: speaking at the Second Reading of ADVIce FRoM MAcMIllAn the Mental Health Discrimination All of SUFS students 100% We are working with Macmillan and Bill, congratulated us for addressing said thatThe work I undertook Legacare, a small social enterprise mental health and tackling stigma.
was meaningful versus the inthe northwest of the UK, to actively national benchmark of 58% campaign around issues of the right ouR InDePenDenT on work placements.
to free legal advice in the last few clAIMSPAnel of the SUFS students that took weeks of life.
This new pilot will We have created an independent part, 98% agreed that I was given look to see whether a missing part claims panel to provide independent some responsibility during my of peoples palliative care can reviews of the critical illness payout placement against anational be delivered inkeyhospitals or decisions for our customers.
remotely to all beneficiaries including Legal & Generals customers.
encouRAgIng DIVeRSITy our policy is to treat employees HeAlTH MATTeRS HelPIng eMPloyeRS WITH THe without discrimination and to operate BRITISH HeART FounDATIon equal opportunity employment Understanding health challenges In 2012, we provided Health and practices designed to achieve this and developments allows us to Wellbeing seminars to 12 major UK end.
The Groups policy on diversity develop better products and improve employers as well as running joint includes giving full and fair customer service.
Deeper insight Health at Work regional seminars consideration to applications for about the health of the nation foremployers interested in creating employment made by all persons: also enables us to set pricing and healthy workplaces.
This has to continue, wherever possible, the premiums more effectively.
Health resultedin a movement with over employment of staff who become care systems around the world are 4,300 members interested in creating disabled and to provide equal facing enormous challenges as they better and healthier workplaces.
opportunities for the training and try to cope with ageing populations career development of all employees.
and continuing economic and IMPRoVIng MenTAl HeAlTH financial pressures.
InTHe WoRKPlAce looKIng FoRWARD We work with a number of mental For 2013 to 2016, our executive In the coming decades the health charities to inform the services committee has looked at the longerdemographic composition of nearly we offer our customers.
We have term issues that matter to society allpopulations in the developed asked Rethink Mental Illness to and our customers in the form of worldwill change significantly with independently review our services a materiality analysis.
dramatic increases in the numbers to clients and endorse them ifthey ofelderly people.
This will lead to thought we had produced something major changes in healthcare and good.
They challenge uson our welfareprovision.
approach to providing services to our clients and help us tocontinuously improve through training for our employees and customers on the annual report and accounts 2012 39 68906 L&G p034-051.
indd 39 16 03 2013 03:07 Our APPrOACH ouR SocIAl PuRPoSe conTInueD engAgeMenT eXAMPle glencoRe XSTRATA SHAReHolDeR MATTeRS Corporate governance is about protecting shareholders, aligning the interests of companies with investors as well as maximising shareholders long term interests.
WHAT We KnoW Corporate governance covers a broad remit, from how a company is managed to relations with shareholders.
For us, its about looking after the long term success of the businesses we invest in and voting As one of the largest institutional asset managers in and engaging directly with their senior europe, we use our scale to bring about change and management and making sure they represent our clients in the most powerful manner.
have the right structure inplace This is an important differentiator when communicating to manage their own risks and and voting on companies.
We also work with other opportunities.
Were committed to major shareholders, as our consolidated voice adds using our position of influence to significant weight to our views.
help improve board practices and performance in the markets in which The terms of the proposed merger between Glencore and we invest.
This involves engagement Xstrata originally envisaged a tie-up based on a 2.8 share ratio with investee companies directly and and included Management Incentive Arrangements MIAs.
collaboratively with other institutional investors, Government and regulators.
There was effective pressure from shareholders to oppose this and revised terms were subsequently put forward with a 3.05 eXecuTIVe ReMuneRATIon share ratio and MIAs which would only take effect if approved excessive executive remuneration by Xstrata shareholders.
hasbeen under public scrutiny for many years, but the spotlight has During this process LGIM met with the management of both particularly intensified recently.
We consistently disagreed with the voted against 126 UK remuneration additional incentive arrangements and voted for the deal related resolutions in 2012. of those without the MIAs.
The deal was eventually completed without where we recommended changes, the controversial MIAs which were voted down at the over 40%amended their plans.
extraordinary general meeting of Xstrata eGM.
Just over 78% of shareholders voted against the MIAs at the eGM.
We pushed for pay packages to be simpler, aligned with shareholder The Xstrata chairman stood down following this vote.
LGIM is interests and to support the long term helping with the new Chairman appointment process and did strategy of the business.
We have not go public with any of this throughout the 11-month period.
actively participated in numerous industry consultations including the Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS executive Remuneration consultation.
WHAT We ARe DoIng ToIMPRoVe eVeRyDAy coRPoRATe goVeRnAnce We have expanded our team over recent years: the team now consists ofseven professionals with an average of 14 years investment experience.
indd 40 16 03 2013 03:07 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn We voted at 2,616 general meetings in the US, liaising with technology climate-related risks in the design of2,541 companies, covering all major companies on issues such as of our products and services.
We followed up human rights in the supply How we consider the use of natural with companies on our against votes chain and political spending: resources to run our own business.
This allowed us to seeking better board explain our voting policy and rationale independence on Japanese nATuRAl ReSouRceS uSeD as well as to build relationships with listed companies: ToRun ouR BuSIneSS companies inthese regions.
improving UK reporting standards Traditionally we have collected for shareholders with more our environmental data by calendar We signed up to international concise and clearer disclosures: year, but because of new legislation investornetwork groups including raising issue of auditor rotation weve decided to consolidate our theInternational Corporate Governance for UK Plc: and environmental data collection to Network, the Council of Institutional sustainability issues impacting runfrom April to April going forward.
Investors US and the Institutional UK listed miningcompanies.
Thisreport therefore updates the Investor Group on Climate Change.
information provided in April 2012 andincludes our environmental SHAPIng THe FuTuRe enVIRonMenTAl performance from April 2011 to April As a major shareholder in global MATTeRS 2012.
Information from April 2012 companies, we consider it important toApril 2013 will be available from Climate change is something that to try to shape the future of corporate August 2013 in our online CSR Report.
impacts the very core of what we governance and to improve best dofrom annuities, life insurance, practice.
one of the most constructive At Legal & General, we have institutional investment, commercial ways to achieve this is to voice our a strongcommitment to the property investment and savings to views through submissions to industry environment and high expectations home insurance.
There has been lots consultations.
We responded to the ofour employees.
This is set out of work across the Group in2012 following consultations during 2012: inour Group environmental Policy to help our customers cope with BIS on executive Pay, eSM on the statement.
We recognise that our climate change through our products Role of Proxy Advisers, FSA enhancing operations impact the environment: and services.
We have been recognised Listing Rules, Kay Review, FRC Corporate as a leader in this field, scoring 100% Governance and Stewardship Review, directly, through our buildings in this years ClimateWise Index.
and the Japan Ministry of Justice on and business travel in the UK Corporate Governance.
andoverseas: ADDReSSIng clIMATe cHAnge indirectly, through our Climate change affects many parts ouR FocuS investmentassets: and ofour business from health to In 2012, we changed our engagement indirectly, through our commercial property assets and target from monitoring the number supplychain.
ofindividual companies we hold We need to adapt to the effects of meetings with to measuring the We have measured our direct climate change, both in developing totalnumber of meetings held.
environmental impacts for over ten products including pricing and who Wehave found we get the best results years, focusing on energy, transport, we insure and the services that we through repeated meetings with water and waste, as well as addressing deliver to ourcustomers.
the risks and opportunities associated ourtarget for2012 was to engage with climate change.
We are on the managing committee 1 with companies on 300 occasions, ofClimateWise, the global insurance 2 and in fact weheld425 meetings.
To do this, we operate certified industrys leadership group to drive environmental Management Systems action on climate change risk, Key focuses for 2013 in our eMS covering the areas where we which gives us thechance to talk engagements will include: can make a difference: to policymakers about business, investment and climate change.
ensuring better alignment with UK facilities shareholders on executive pay UK procurement The physical environment has a across UK Plc: Legal & General Property significant influence upon how we improving Gender Diversity dobusiness in two main ways: inUKboardrooms especially How we provide our customers inMid-Cap listed companies: with products that mitigate 1.
25% of which covering environmental and or social topics.
30% of which covered environmental and or social topics.
indd 41 16 03 2013 03:07 Our APPrOACH ouR SocIAl PuRPoSe conTInueD regularly assessed to ensure that they 2011 12 2010 2009 2008 1 comply with our environmental, social Co2 UK occupied properties per employee 1.77 2.74 2.69 2.60 and ethical policies.
Car based business miles per UK policy 0.87 0.88 1.04 1.44 Waste to landfill per UK employee kgs 53 58 70 76 ouTlooK estimated water per UK employee CuM 8.68 12.82 10.98 10.96 our strategy remains to reduce 1. energy per UK employee and per UK policy includes UK occupied offices, Suffolk Life occupied properties, Legal & General Surveying Services and estate Agency Franchising offices including voids.
year-on-year use of resources torunour business.
our focus for environmental targets includes: eXTeRnAl RecognITIon further reduction of Group operations Co emissions: 2 UK waste reductions: reductions in energy use in our commercial property portfolio: and Business in the community BITc SIg Watch reduce UK paper use and corporate Responsibility Index 2012 We scored -9 in the Corporate Reputations We retained our Platinum status having Index with NGos in 2012.
This was an increase the online servicing first achieved this in 2011. improvement on our score of -28 in 2011. ofour customers from current level of 2.7% TAX MATTeRS Paying and collecting taxes is an important part of our role as a FTSe4good climateWise We achieved a score of 89% in 2012, We have improved our ClimateWise business, and our contribution down from 94% in 2011.
This score rating to 100%, an increase of 1% tosociety.
reflects the belief of FTSe 4900 that from 2011, we are now joint first we should do more in harder to in the insurance sector globally.
TAX goVeRnAnce Responsibility for the tax policy and management of tax risks rests with the Group Chief Financial officer and Group Tax Director who report regularly on tax matters to the Group Audit Committee.
In light of the current public interest in corporation tax, Dow Jones Sustainability Index oeKoM this year the Committee reviewed We scored 73% in 2012 up from 71% We are rated as a prime stock by oekom in 2011.
the Companys tax strategy in the context of the Groups corporate social responsibility and shareholder We were one of the first financial WoRKIng WITH ouR SuPPlIeRS stewardship objectives and the services companies to become Management of our supply chain is Companys approach to tax disclosures.
certified to ISo 14001 and this an important aspect of running our programme has expanded to cover business efficiently and in a sustainable TAX AuTHoRITIeS oursupply chain and property way.
Terms and conditions for business We have transparent and positive investments.
We dont offset our transactions are agreed with suppliers relationships with all relevant tax impacts or make claims of carbon and payment is made in accordance authorities.
During 2012, we continued neutrality: our priority is to actually with these terms provided the suppliers to strengthen our real-time working reduce our impacts.
The Company has relationship with HMRC in the UK and there were no notifiable environmental no trade creditors.
As at 31 December have been rated by HMRC as Low Risk.
incidents as aresult of our operations.
2012, the average number of days of payments outstanding for the Legal TAX enVIRonMenT & General Group of companies was We welcome the current debate 20 days 2011: 36 days.
Suppliers are about companies tax policies and 42 annual report and accounts 2012 68906 L&G p034-051.
indd 42 16 03 2013 03:07 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn transparency and are participating counTRy By and have therefore been included in this discussion with Action Aid counTRy AnAlySIS in the UK segment.
We have not and Transparency International The total taxes borne and collected included our taxes borne and Corporate Network amongst others.
in 2012 and paid to UK and overseas collected by any of our joint We include information on our UK governments amounted to 660m venture operations.
corporation tax paid in 2012 below.
This comprised UK our success in moving towards taxes of 561m 2011: 535m and cASH TAX ReconcIlIATIon increased corporate tax transparency overseas taxes of 99m 2011: 80m.
The chart below provides a summary is reflected in our winning of PwCs For this first time, this year the reconciliation between the equity Building Public Trust award for tax analysis below shows the main taxes holders tax charge disclosed in reporting in the FTSe 100 in 2012. borne and collected in each of the theincome statement of 235m The award recognises transparency main countries where we operate.
an effectivetax rate of 22.7% and and excellence in corporate reporting.
Taxes borne and collected in Ireland the UKcorporation tax paid of 60m, are less than 1m 2011: less than 1m inthe cash flow statement.
Reconciliation of tax charge in income statement to UK tax TAX STRATegy paid in the cash ow statement We are committed to meeting all m legal requirements and making 250 all appropriate tax payments in the territories in which we operate.
200 When evaluating tax planning, we will also always consider 150 theGroups reputation, brand and corporate and social responsibilities.
100 We will: 50 not pursue arrangements which are not in line with 0 Equity holders' Overseas Accounting 2012 tax 2011 tax UK Tax paid per our Group Code of ethics: Tax in Income tax adjustments instalments instalments consolidated avoid tax pitfalls by considering Statement including payable paid in 2012 cash ow deferred tax in 2013 statement tax as part of every major business decision and ensuring appropriate controls are in Country by country analysis of total tax contribution place to manage our tax risks: UK USA LGN LGF not undertake transactions 1% 4% whosesole purpose is to create 11% 17% an abusive tax result: 14% profits taxes borne discuss in real-time our 2% Other taxes borne interpretation of the law with HMRC 24% 63% property taxes, VAT, social security where we pursue tax planning: PAYE collected from annuitants include Board-level oversight Other taxes collected Payroll, Premium, VAT aspart of our tax risk governanceprocesses: be transparent in respect of our 81% 82% 42% tax affairs and provide disclosure in our Annual Report and Accounts about our tax approach, tax rate and cash tax payments: and contribute to the development 36% ofUK tax policy and legislation.
