Charitable trust Featured grants 2012 continued to be yet another challenging year for the UK economy.
The Boxing Academy The Trust supports The The fall-out from the recession and government spending cuts are having a Boxing Academy, an alternative to mainstream significant impact on both the funding of voluntary sector organisations and education for hard-to-reach 1316 year olds who the people who depend most on them.
These include some of the most have been excluded from school, or are at the marginalised and disadvantaged people in our society.
Many charities are point of exclusion.
The Academy combines basic facing crisis, battling to cope with increased demand for services and education and mentoring with the discipline of sport.
The majority remain focused on fundraising, although many are drawing down on their reserves and are considering Boxing Academy students were sent copies of the how to invest funds more effectively and one fifth are now considering Man Booker Prize shortlisted Pigeon English to 90% merger as a means of survival.
read in class and then given the opportunity to of young people meet the author, Stephen Kelman, at a reading and currently held in Although the charity sector is facing a period of considerable challenge it is question and answer session at Mans London prisonhave been permanently excluded still remarkably resilient and flexible.
A major reshaping is taking place and office.
The students were able to connect with from school Youth the organisations that survive will be those that are able to rethink priorities, Kelmans novel, a reaction to the murder of Justice Board diversify income streams and look at innovative ways of delivering existing Damilola Taylor, set on a grim South London statistics 2010. activities and collaborative working.
Some organisations will inevitably fail housing estate rife with gangs and crime and share while others will emerge stronger.
their own real life experiences with the author.
Now, more than ever it is vital that businesses continue to support charities The Passage The Passage runs Londons largest either through donations or through practical means.
Man has been a major voluntary sector day centre for homeless people.
supporter and donor to UK and international charities for many decades Each daythe charity helps up to 200 homeless and philanthropy and employee engagement in the community remains an and vulnerable men and women.
Homeless important part of what we stand for.
Mans charitable contribution is based people frequently have both substance abuse on the financial performance of the business which led to a reduced level of and mental health issues that prevent them from grant giving in 2012.
However, by utilising the Trusts reserves we were able moving to a more stable way of life and the Trust to spend $3.2 million on charitable donations and employee engagement supports The Passages Health Team to provide 8% programmes during the period.
In the UK our supported projects benefited this specialist care.
Our employees also give their The number of people over 30,000 individuals including at risk young people and people suffering sleeping rough in time to the charity, filling regular shifts serving from mental health problems, homelessness and domestic abuse.
The London increased by breakfast and lunch in the day centre.
Trusts funding also enabled the charities we support to leverage over $1.5 million from other funding sources.
Starlight The Annual Charity chosen by our UK Our employees also continue to make a huge contribution to the charities employees in 2012 was Starlight, a childrens we support, providing over 1,000 hours of volunteering activity through our charity granting once-in-a-lifetime wishes to ManKind programme and sharing their expertise and experience for the seriously and terminally ill children and providing benefit of those in our local community who need it most.
Our employees entertainment for children in hospitals and ran employability skills workshops for students from inner London schools hospices throughout the UK.
With an initial and for the homeless, mentored young people from challenging donation of $159,000 from the Trust, UK 1,000 backgrounds and supported primary school children with their reading.
employees raised an additional $83,000 through a range of fundraising activities.
Employees also There are currently over 1,000 children volunteered for the day at the charitys annual Man has had a challenging year and has undertaken a substantial cost waiting for a Starlight Wishing Party for over 500 children and their cutting programme.
As a result charitable donations to the Trust have been wish to be granted.
Starlight will continue as our Annual suspended until there is a significant improvement in financial performance.
Despite this, the Trust has sufficient reserves to continue a reduced level of grant giving and support to employee engagement programmes for the foreseeable future.
Charity Swim 2012, Switzerland For the fifth consecutive year, our employees in Switzerland We would like to thank all of our employees who have supported our took part in an annual charity swim in the Lake of charitable programmes and volunteered their time and skills for the benefit Zrich.
The swim raised $59,000 for four employee of others.
Our focus for 2013 is to continue to support our chosen charities nominated charities: MPK Homeland in Cambodia, through the current climate and develop further areas where our The Jo Warrington Charitable Foundation in South employees can use their time and skills to add value.
Africa, the Togo Project and Jugendfrsorgeverein Hfe, a local Swiss charity.
Thirty-six Man and Credit Suisse swimmers elected to swim either Lisa Clarke 1.2or 2.4 km in open water raising money through Trust Manager sponsorship.
A paddle boat race was also held Total Charitable Expenditure 2012 which proved great fun for participants and % spectators alike and over 150 employees supported the event.
Other Donations 11% Man Group plc Riverbank House 2 Swan Lane London EC4R 3AD Tel 44 0 20 7144 1000
