30 Focus on social gaming beyond real money gaming Ricky ONeill Marketing bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 31 We are pushing to develop the highest quality social games in terms of both production values and gameplay, whilst The social gaming sector has seen simultaneously helping to innovate the explosive growth over the past three Groups real-money gaming products.
When years with the overall market estimated coupled with sophisticated and bespoke to be worth approximately $14.6bn of analytics and support systems, we believe we gross gaming revenue by 2015.
Gamblingare in a great position to build market share themed games are the fastest growing in a rapidly growing and valuable sector.
genre within the social gaming segment, Barak Rabinowitz, CEO Win already valued at $1.7bn in 2012 and predicted to reach $2.6bn over the next 1 three years.
Against this background it is perhaps not surprising that operators are scrambling to get a piece of the market.
party and its dedicated social gaming unit, Win.
com, Number succeed in this highly-competitive eld?
crunching Our strategy is based on three pillars: more quickly through the game.
This approach requires that we create highly An experienced management team $1.7bn appealing and feature-rich content that andproprietary gaming platform our players want to play and can share A portfolio of new applications for with their friends.
onlineand smartphone platforms Estimated value of Original IP in the creation and We use three key metrics to measure the social gambling 1 distribution of social gaming content success of our games that collectively we market in 2012 call ARM: When we launched Win in May 2012, we already had many of the assets and skills Acquisition how many players are we inplace: premium propriety game content, able to attract to the game in the first customer relationship management place through marketing but more systems and business analytics, as well importantly in the social gaming world asan expertise in online marketing and through word-of-mouth and friend anability to partner with leading brands.
To complement these strengths, we Retention what proportion of players There are 1 billion brought in a specialist management team come back after a day, a week, a month?
active users now with direct industry expertise and acquired onFacebook Monetisation how many customers a team of 350 software engineers, game want to dive deep into the game and are designers and creative artists with a willing to pay for the privilege and how proven track record of building some often are they willing to do so?
As each game we produce goes through Armed for success itsalpha and beta testing stages it is Our focus has been on developing great analysed with WinSight, our bespoke games based around our core gaming business intelligence tool, to help us 130 million monthly expertise.
This content is offered on a answer these questions.
It also allows us active users for social freemium basis where all games can tooptimise both the game engine and gambling apps beplayed for free but by purchasing individual features to produce a game credits, players can unlock rewards, send thatis loved byour players and delivers gifts to their friends virtually and advance revenue growth.
