Key brands: 54 Markets and risks Win.
com Spotlight on Key applications: Social gaming Slots Craze Cheeky Bingo Market snapshot The advent of social gaming has been a spectacular success story over the past three years.
During this period, revenue models have evolved extensively so that what previously was an interesting internet phenomenon has become a large commercial marketplace.
Within the broader social gaming sector, gambling-based games are the fastest growing genre, representing a market valued at approximately $1.7bn in 2012 and Bet type: 9 predicted to rise to $2.6bn by 2015, implying a compound annual growth rate of 11.2%.
Social gaming players use virtual currency to play The social gaming sector offers games through a variety of online channels, the largest the games ofwhich include social networks such as Facebook and mobile operating platforms such as iOS and Android.
Unlike the real money gaming market, social games are not subject to We are focused on the licensing and regulation and can be offered in a broader number of markets including freemium model whereby the United States and Asia.
players are given chips for free but can choose to buy more to continue playing How we make money: Key offer: Free virtual currency is provided on sign-up.
Customers can then purchase additional Virtual currency and based virtual currency to advance game play, open new features or send gifts to their friends slots, bingo with, casino, this is the so-called freemium model.
Successful applications can achieve conversion sports betting, and poker rates from free topaying customers of 2% or higher with average revenue per paying games to follow user per month ofaround $20.
Advertising can provide additional revenue through offers, banners and search.
A summary of illustrative conversion rates and costs and value per user are shown below.
SuperData Research, Morgan Stanley bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Success factors 55 We launched our social gaming strategy in May 2012 with the formation of Win, a dedicated social gaming business.
Several of the assets and skills required for success in the social gaming world are the same as those required by successful companies in the real money gaming market such as proprietary gaming content supported by state-of the-art graphics, CRM and business analytics, online marketing expertise and the ability to partner with leading brands.
Whilst a relatively new business phenomenon, we have established a specialist management team and acquired the team of software developers who built a number ofthe worlds leading social gaming applications and platforms including Slotomania and Playtika.
Combining this expertise with the wider assets within the Group, we are optimistic about our prospects for social gaming.
We have developed and released arobust end-to end, proprietary analytics platform called WinSight to support our in-house and partner game applications.
Our offer Social gaming can be used to describe a broad range of different gaming applications.
Through Win we are focused on gambling-themed games where we can best leverage the broader Groups expertise.
Following the testing of several beta games in 2012, Lets go crazy Winlaunched its first fullyedged product, Slots Craze, in February 2013 which offers With a suite of games to choose from, avariety of highly original and engaging slot games within a single application portal.
Slots Craze offers players a variety ofdifferent genres including casino Initially offered via Facebook and iOS, the game will be extended to Android later in 2013. andadventure.
We followed this in March 2013 with the launch of a bingo-based product under our CheekyBingo brand.
Also in the Win development pipeline for 2013 is a sports betting game which is being developed in conjunction with Nordeus, the creators of Top Eleven, currently the most successful sports app in the social gaming arena.
A casino-based social gaming product is also planned for 2013.
com productsandbrands Slot of the pops!
Bubble Kingdom is one of our mostpopular social slot games.
