Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Responsibilities & relationships 63 Employees, suppliers and shareholders overall financial performance.
But our focus in 2012 was to create Employees an holistic working environment for the newly-formed bwin.
This presented several challenges due to differing cultures and Our employees have to constantly adapt to historical approaches to rewards that had been operated by the former bwin and PartyGaming entities.
changing market conditions, particularly the shifts We also had to strengthen some areas of the business to address inthe regulatory and competitive landscapes, the complex and demanding technology projects associated with advances in technology and ever-increasing the integration.
Staff numbers were increased with our move into consumer demands.
We empower employees to social gaming that saw us establish Win, a standalone entity realise their individual potential and ensure they outside the core real money gaming business.
continue to be a strong and valuable asset over 2012 achievements thelong-term an asset that is immersed in the We ended 2012 with around 3,000 full-time equivalent employees, compared with 2,750 a year earlier.
The increase largely re ected delivery of our business strategies.
the signi cant hiring of staff at IVY Comptech, the Groups Kathy Swindley, Group Director of Human Resources dedicated business process outsourcing unit for the technology integration project and the acquisition of a dedicated While much of 2011 involved the removal of duplicate roles as development team to support our social gaming strategy.
Overall weforged ahead with merging bwin and PartyGaming, 2012 was in 2012, we hired into 879 roles of which 159 were internal career very much about moving onto the front foot and integrating the development moves and 29 were international career moves.
two businesses, especially on the technology front.
Theemployee voluntary attrition rate, which as expected spiked due to the Merger, stabilised at a more normal and manageable The major project for the integration was unquestionably the level of 13% in 2012. move to a single technology platform.
This project was particularly tough for our software engineers, but also for many Integration coupled with a large hiring programme is a daunting other business functions that completed what was probably the task, but it provided us with a clean sheet an opportunity to online gaming industrys largest ever migration of millions of create a ubiquitous and rewarding working culture for bwin.
dotcom customer accounts just before the end of2012.
The list of all the elements that constituted the overall plan to put ideas into action and achieve our ambition runs to several pages: The workload increased further with market openings in it includes the following key elements: Denmark and Spain: our move into social gaming: strategic partnership agreements with Zynga and United Auburn: and the A common set of values: we have developed a set of values to extension of our links with sports when we became the digital guide our personal, professional behaviour for employees at betting and gaming partner for Manchester United.
On-time every level, centred around insight, passion and creativity.
delivery is a prerequisite for long-term success and time and again Thenext step will involve our senior leaders communicating our employees delivered.
allthe major changes they have made and intend to make witha speci c focus on how they adhere to our values.
2013 promises to be just as challenging with a raft of product A new employer brand: helping to raise employee engagement launches, under both our own brands as well as those of our and reduce recruitment costs: This visual representation of partners and we may well see more market openings too.
Each what we can offer potential and current employees was will require the involvement of employees from a broad spectrum brought to life through a new intranet, individual recognition of disciplines and across several locations.
Having such a skilled awards, promotion and induction materials and simpli ed and and professional talent pool is a signi cant business differentiator accessible policy and procedure documents.
compared with our peer group.
Learning and development: enhancing employee and Rewarding results management capability is a prime focus for us.
In 2012 we put Our approach to reward and the expectations of our employees 129 middle and senior managers through independently are synchronised: our reward inventory is not con ned to organised leadership development courses with the aim of financial satisfaction alone we have listened to and acted upon increasing trust, delegation, coaching and mentoring skills our employees views that the pay-back for a constantly high level within the organisation.
Our all-employee development of professional output is not just about money.
strategy centres around a blended learning approach We provide financial rewards through a bonus scheme that is encompassing in-house workshops, external courses and synchronised with both an individuals stretching personal eLearning.
An average of 4.8 training days was completed objectives that support our business strategies and also our peremployee in 2012.
64 Responsibilities & relationships Employees, suppliers and shareholders A recognition portal: Employees can nominate colleagues Suppliers who have made an impact on the business that personi es our values.
In 2012 we made more than 1,100 awards under Procurement is much more than just obtaining the the my.
recognition scheme employees can spend their best price from suppliers.
Effective management award points tobuy a range of goods in our new online shop.
ofthe geographical and technical complexities Performance management: We aligned all employees with a single approach to performance management and supported ofour large and diverse supply chain bene ts our this with training for 550 employees who were new to the competitiveness and ultimately our bottom-line.
centrally-managed online system known as Pi.
Bernard Njoku, Head of Procurement Universal exible bene ts scheme: During 2012 we rolled out to seven of our locations a specially developed online portal called just.
This scheme has been enthusiastically Every phase of our supply chain is managed through a single embraced with more than 90% of employees in our larger Enterprise Resource Planning system, overseen by our central of ces accessing the portal and collectively making more procurement team whose strategic aim is to: than 2,800 adjustments to their bene ts, tailoring them for Reduce risk: their particular lifestyle.
Develop mutually bene cial long-term business In 2013, we will roll-out a programme that focuses on building relationships:and stronger management capabilities across all disciplines.
Deliver best value from our suppliers on a long-term basis.
Thiswill entail improving managers communication skills, Managing our supply chain is not a one-way street.
In 2012 we performance management capabilities, and career and solicited feedback from a representative sample of the thousands personal development plans for their staff other areas of of suppliers who provide us with goods and services that have focuswill include: amonetary value ranging from less than 20,000 to more than Supporting employees with their continuing career 1million a year.
development: We were pleased with the survey findings.
Seven out of ten of our Continuing to develop and improve our just.
rewards and suppliers said they were very satis ed describing their dealing my.
recognition offerings: with our procurement department.
A 3% minority of the survey Providing employees with the time to develop skills and learn respondents expressed dissatisfaction, but were not complacent: new ones to ful l their potential: we are addressing their concerns and responding to their Continuing to improve our internal communications through suggestions about how we can improve the servicing of our our intranet, strategy road shows and several other channels: business relationships.
Motivating and engaging employees so they understand and One area we are addressing arises from the 8% of survey commit to our business strategy: and respondents who said that our order form did not contain all Listening to our employees and encouraging feedback and ofthe information needed to deliver the required goods and open dialogue.
The consequences of not dealing with this are bwin.
partys success depends upon the skills, knowledge unnecessary, time-consuming enquiries from suppliers with andendeavours of our employees that in turn drive the potential knock-on delays to deliveries.
It could also damage managements commitment to foster and nurture a culture ourrelationships with suppliers.
thatenables people to learn, develop and achieve.
In 2012, our supplier base included more than 7,800 unique online af liate marketeers for our gaming brands and more than 2,500 other suppliers of a very wide-range of goods and services Discover more at: www.
com Careers including: broadband and telephony services, advertising and marketing, computer hardware and software and media buyers.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 65 Our procurement policy includes a Supplier Acknowledgement We use a range of different channels and materials to update our and Self-Certi cation Checklist, which requests information stakeholders including investor presentations, online webcasts, relating to: published financial reports and analysts consensus forecasts, toname but a few, all of which are publicly available on our Financial strength to ensure long-term reliability: corporate website: www.
Being clear and Ability to deliver enduring quality and value: transparent is always our objective and we endeavour to improve Commitment to innovation and ability to help us develop new all aspects of our approach through a regular process of review products, processes and ways of working that will provide us and assessment.
with a commercial advantage: and As well as providing a regular stream of updates and information, Commitment to a wider corporate responsibility agenda we also use our regular interactions to gain a greater relating to the environment, labour employment standards, understanding of investors and other stakeholders perceptions equal opportunities and employee rights.
about our strategy, performance and prospects.
In return, we aim to operate to the highest professional standards, Whilst focused on executing our stated business strategy, we treating our suppliers in a fair and reasonable value the opinions and guidance from our stakeholders that manner and settling invoices promptly.
combine to provide an holistic view of our overall performance and strategic direction.
This then allows us to review our strategy Shareholders and goals and, if necessary, re ne them a prerequisite in a constantly changing business environment.
We believe that an Our approach is to be as transparent as possible, open, two-way information ow is a core element of investor but not just because we have to: investors gain a relations practice.
greater understanding and appreciation of our The international media interest in us and the industry, be it positive or negative, travels fast and is easily accessible online business model and long-term prospects by being with the resulting generation of an instant stream of opinions kept fully informed on developments affecting our andviews, often through a range of different channels.
Avoiding misinterpretation and confusion in such a fast-moving Peter Reynolds, Director of Communications environment can be a challenge.
However, through the establishment of strong and long-term relationships with The Board provides shareholders with regular updates on both investors, analysts and other providers of capital, often with corporate and financial developments throughout the course of direct access to our executive management, supported by our the financial year.
Our executive team meets regularly with Director of Communications, we aim to avoid the potential risks financial analysts and current as well as prospective investors created by the increasing popularity of digital media.
throughout the year, but with a focus around the publication of In this Annual Report, that is also available in an online format, we our half year and full year results.
have again aimed to raise the bar by providing even more details and insight into our strategy, performance and objectives: the opportunities we hope to realise and the risks we plan to mitigate throughout 2013 and beyond.
For further information about our signi cant shareholders, please see page 91
