Governance 74 Ethics Committee Report and Integration Committee Report Update reports from the Head of Regulatory Compliance, Anti-Money Laundering Of cer and Head of CSR F. Ethics Committee Report GoodCorporation review Purpose CSR disclosures in the 2011 Annual Report The Board believes that the way in which the Group behaves and Charitable donations planned by the Group for 2012 interacts with its stakeholders is key to the Groups long-term success Annual review of the Committees work in 2011 and its terms and development.
The Board has appointed an Ethics Committee, ofreference tocover corporate and social responsibility CSR matters, despite there October: beingno requirement to do so under the Code.
Reports from the Head of Regulatory Compliance, the Anti-Money Membership Laundering Of cer and Head of CSR The members of the Ethics Committee are: Internal audit review of Regulatory Affairs function Tim Bristow Chairman Establishment of a Licensed Operations Audit function Per Afrell 2013 CSR budget formula and proposed charitable donations Helmut Kern The InterTrader business and its regulatory compliance function Lewis Moonie Nevada suitability process Charitable donations and pro bono work in 2012 Responsibilities In 2013 the Ethics Committee has met once to consider the CSR disclosures The Ethics Committee has adopted terms of reference, approved by in the 2012 Annual Report and receive reports from the Headof Regulatory theBoard that are available on the Companys website: http: www.
Affairs and Compliance, the Anti-Money Laundering Of cer, Head of CSR, bwinparty.
Head of InterTrader Compliance and GoodCorporation, and to approve the aspx.
In summary, the main responsibilities of the Ethics Committee are proposed charitable donations for2013.
The Groups approach to CSR and to ensure that the Group has policies and effective controls regarding related issues can be found onpages 58 to 65. thefollowing: Tim Bristow responsible gaming including the prevention of underage or problem Chairman of the Ethics Committee gambling: 15 March 2013 compliance with the gaming and financial services licenses held by the Company or any ofits subsidiaries: gambling licence probity matters: G. Integration Committee Report anti-money laundering: the fairness and integrity of the Companys gaming and trading Purpose systems and the process for managing any challenges to the fairness As many corporate mergers experience signi cant challenges in and or integrity of these systems: achieving their objectives, the Board wanted to ensure suf cient privacy and data protection: oversight was given to bringing about the delivery of economic synergies and effective exploitation of the combined PartyGaming and employment matters relating to codes of conduct and health bwin assets.
The purpose of the Integration Committee is to oversee andsafety: bwin.
partys Merger integration plan and ensure it is implemented Charitable donations and investment in the local community: effectively in a timely manner.
the Companys suppliers and service providers: and Membership the Companys impact on the environment The Integration Committee was established on 31 March 2011 and its From a day-to-day management perspective, the CFO has executive members during 2012 were: responsibility for CSR matters and he is invited to attend Ethics Committee meetings.
The CEO attends meetings from time totime.
Manfred Bodner Chairman Simon Duffy Business during the year Rod Perry During 2012 the Ethics Committee met twice to review and consider the following business items: Jim Ryan Norbert Teufelberger March: The CFO and COO have also been invited to attend and participate in Nevada suitability process Integration Committee meetings.
On 15 January 2013 Jim Ryan retired bwin.
