60 Responsibilities & relationships Customers and responsible gaming Players ratings of the player protection tools offered on our Together with the Division on Addiction, we are leading gaming sites: developing an evidence-based responsible gaming bwin PartyPoker PartyCasino framework to identify risky behaviour, provide each player with the individual level of protection they % % % Percentage, rating our 91 90 89 player protection positively need and thus help to prevent gaming-related excellenttogood problems from emerging.
% % % Percentage, considering our 87 87 87 Joachim Husler, Responsible Gaming Manager player protection effective completely to partly Percentage, considering our % % % 92 91 92 player protection easy to nd completely to partly Real prevention Gaming is a great source of entertainment for millions % % % Percentage, considering our player 97 95 95 protection easy to understand of people around the world.
For a small minority, completely to partly however, gaming can cause problems: a number ofnational prevalence studies show that typically around 1% of Note: Figures derived from customer satisfaction surveys, based on total sample sizes between 3,000 and 18,000 customers.
acountrys population is estimated to encounter some sort of gaming-related issues.
Based on proactive risk-management, customers with We believe that protective measures must be based on sound potentially problematic gaming behaviours were identi ed and science.
This is why we chose to analyse actual online gaming subsequently contacted by the specialised Responsible Gaming behaviour with the DOA.
This partnership has helped us to team in 2012. establish an evidence-based framework for individualised player protection, since different players have different needs.
Incident type Intervention Average number of incidents per month Using this framework we aim to tailor existing responsible gaming Suspicions with indication of Exclusion imposed tools to a players individual behaviour and provide to each 64 gaming-related problems ofthem the appropriate level of protection.
For the first time, Suspicions with indication of Agreement on riskbehavioural analysis and research on early-detection of markers 43 atrisk behaviour mitigation with the for problem gaming is allowing us to proactively identify and customer address the speci c protection needs of player groups.
We are Concerns allayed Responsible gaming beginning to use this research to make appropriate tools available 138 advice given to speci c player groups.
Individualised player protection as public health approach to prevention Moderate behaviour At-risk behaviour Problem behaviour % % % 4 1 95 Informed choice Support control Protection Information and awareness Self limitation Self exclusion Self-tests Monitoring Referral to healthcare Transparency and reality checks Partial self-exclusion Self-help tools bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 61 In order to provide players who might feel at risk and want to How we measure fairness: start taking steps to prevent gaming-related problems, we Number of suspected sports betting fraud cases reported co-operate with providers of counselling services in several by ESSA: different languages.
Number of infringements publicly reported by the British Advertising Standards Agency: Language Organisation Number of suspected fraud cases reported to the regulatory authorities: Danish Gambling Clinic of Aarhus University Hospital Number of customer complaints: and Dutch Gambling Therapy Customer satisfaction statistics.
English GamCare National Council on Problem Gambling French SOS Joueurs ADICTEL German Spielerambulanz der TU Dresden Real compliance Ambulante  Spielsuchthilfe While making responsibility real aims to go beyond Italian Gambling Therapy compliance, our licences to operate demand that we comply with relevant national and international laws Portuguese Jogo Responsavel as well as gaming regulations.
Regulations cover numerous elds ranging from gaming-speci c areas such as player protection Spanish FEJAR andgame operations to generic matters such as data protection, , anti-bribery and corruption.
Real fairness We comply with a wide range of laws, rules, standards and We are focused on creating a fair gaming environment regulations throughout various jurisdictions.
These include, that provides consumer protection, prevents fraud and butare not limited to: fosters the integrity of sports.
It is our responsibility to National gaming licensing requirements: provide a gaming environment that is founded on the spirit of fair Self-Regulatory Frameworks such as the CEN Workshop play.
This is important to customers and for the long-term prosperity Agreement CWA 16259:2011: Responsible Remote Gambling of our business because customer trust is fundamental to our Measures of the European Committee for Standardisation: the success.
standards of the European Gaming and Betting Association Customer confidence is reliant on us providing our products fairly andeCOGRA: and accurately, as well as our ability to actively monitor the games Data protection and privacy regulations: and prevent fraud and manipulation.
 provisions: We work closely with independent certified auditors that monitor the Corporate laws: and fairness of the gaming products we offer.
When it comes to preventing IT best practices fraud and manipulation, our dedicated investigation and online We have a dedicated compliance department, which manages our monitoring teams ensure protection for our customers: we work closely regulatory obligations.
Our working practices are communicated with the European Sport and Security Association ESSA to analyse to our employees through a series of internal policies and training betting patterns provided by us to help identify and report suspicious sessions and are reviewed on a regular basisthrough a process of behaviour to the relevant sporting authorities.
both internal and external audits.
Theinternal audit department We design marketing materials so that messages are clear and only performs regular reviews of individual areas to test our regulatory present fair gaming offers that we can deliver.
The principles of the compliance as well as the effectiveness of our policies in achieving EU Unfair Commercial Practice Directive and the Consumer their goals.
We are also subject to numerous external audits Protection Directive guide our practice.
In the past such audits have been performed by renowned independent organisations such as KPMG, eCOGRA, GoodCorporation and GLI.
Protection of minors and vulnerable people Our gaming sites use several different veri cation mechanisms toprevent underage gaming and our policies are scienti cally evaluated to protect players effectively.
62 Responsibilities & relationships Environment and community Real engagement We aim to reduce the environmental impact of all bwin.
party supports responsible gaming organisations and other charities.
Providing support to our our activities by carefully managing resources and communities is not just about making financial seeking innovative solutions throughout all areas of donations, we also encourage employees to contribute to local our business.
In addition, we seek to participate in communities by creating opportunities to volunteer and support projects that can make a real difference in the local good causes.
We think itis important to connect and engage with the communities around our of ces and employees can take up communities where we have a physical presence.
to eight hours out ofwork to contribute directly to their local communities through our pro bono scheme.
Real care for the environment Around 35% of employees made use of the pro bono scheme in Our approach to helping to protect the environment 2012 to devote time to help out on a wide-range of projects that and provide support to our local communities is an included supporting blind students, building a school, assisting integral part of our overall commitment to making the elderly, the homeless and disadvantaged and sick children.
Employees also participate in environmental projects and We believe that bwin.
partys operations have a low-impact on organise events to raise funds for worthy causes such as theenvironment compared with many other corporations, but cancerresearch.
that does not deter us from making improvements to reduce Our approach to the environment and the community extends general of ce waste, water consumption and the amount of beyond our own business: we also assess our suppliers greenhouse gases produced from our use of electricity and air commitment to a wider corporate responsibility agenda relating travel.
Reductions in all of these areas also provide financial to the environment this alignment of interests means that we bene ts for the business.
can try and make a real difference where it is needed.
Monitoring and measuring our environmental performance has started at all of ce locations.
We are using appropriate indicators and ensuring compliance with local regulations.
We plan to implement a comprehensive, international environmental management programme that measures and improves our performance across locations in a transparent, consistent and comparable way.
Our local environmental managers have responsibility for the programme and for tailoring activities depending on local needs.
Some of our procedures include: Measuring the amount of waste recycled where possible : Tracking energy consumption across all locations: Introducing energy ef ciency measures.
Maintaining tight control on employee travel no company car scheme: all air travel has to be approved by executive management : Encouraging use of video conferencing facilities: Purchasing products and materials from sustainable sources with an emphasis on using recycled materials: Refurbishing of ces to reduce environmental impacts: and Educational activities to increase employee environmental awareness Measuring our environmental performance Current measurement is based on the following indicators 2 per m and per employee: Water consumption: Energy consumption: Waste performance: and Carbon footprint bwin.
