Corporate social responsibility Our priorities We are committed to making a positive contribution to the countries in which we operate.
Below are some examples of how our business units deliver corporate social responsibility programmes meeting our four responsibility principles.
1 Contribute positively to the social and economic development of the communities in which we operate Our services directly contribute to the economy of the countries in which we operate.
We also invest in the social development of the communities where our colleagues and customers live.
Across the globe we sponsor sporting activities and athletes.
In the Caribbean we sponsored the 2011 and 2012 CARIFTA Games, a major platform for the regions young athletes, many of whom go on to become World and Olympic champions.
We are also a strong supporter of education, and in Jamaica and St. Kitts and Nevis our Skool Aid event helped thousands of children prepare for the new school year by providing free school supplies, haircuts and medical, dental and eye checks.
In Panama, the Cable & Wireless Panama Foundation donated school supplies, backpacks and shoes to a school in Cocl province and partnered with the UK embassy to create a new computer room for a school in Coln province.
We also work to support vulnerable groups, such as in Macau where 20 colleagues from our volunteer team organised and participated in a Christmas Gathering for The Macau Association for the Mentally Handicapped.
Following an increase in youth drug abuse in the Maldives, we assisted the Ministry of Health & Family in establishing a toll free 24 7 condential National Helpline providing support and information on substance misuse and treatment options.
18 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Business review 2 3 4 Respect cultures, values and Nurture best practice Seek continuous improvement in human rights throughout inouractivities our environmental performance ouroperations We conduct business with honesty, Our businesses share best practice Our environmental commitment focuses integrity, openness and with respect across the Group, benefitting from the on energy conservation, recycling, waste for the human rights and interests of in-depth experiences gained in each management, responsible water usage our colleagues and the communities others markets.
and reducing our carbon footprint.
In Macau our Future Communications Leader We have introduced an online system to report Our business in the Cayman Islands has been Training Program gave four university students on our energy use and carbon emissions.
the sponsor for Cayman Carnival Batabano the opportunity to work in our Company.
The system ensures consistent reporting since 2003.
This colourful celebration of life The programme provided an opportunity and provides us with a useful reference has a street parade as its main event.
for the students to apply what they learned point against which to measure reductions in school to a real life work environment, in energy usage and carbon emissions.
In Dominica we contributed to Domfesta, and to share their views and ideas on the a two-week celebration of local culture We estimate our carbon footprint to be telecoms industry.
and heritage where playwrights, poets, 153,858 tonnes of CO2 equivalent based on artists, singers, musicians and many others In Panama we hosted a Small Business our Scope 1,2 & 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
come together to show Dominicas rich and Enterprise Workshop to highlight Our energy consumption has reduced from arts heritage.
the latest trends in technology and 351,530 megawatt hours last year to management, helping local employers 288,288 megawatt hours this year.
In Panama thousands of high school students to improve their businesses.
from across the country entered our annual We continue to use video conferencing National Oratory Contest, a public speaking Our social telecoms services help facilities to reduce business travel, although competition.
The winner was Santiago governments to improve delivery of public travel is still necessary due to our geographical Gallardo from the Guna Yala Indian services.
In Panama we welcomed delegations spread, and we estimate that created 4,599 Reservation, an island community just off from the governments of El Salvador and the tonnes of CO2 usage in 2011 12.
Panamas Caribbean coast, who spoke about Cayman Islands to learn about such services, In Panama we started to recycle paper and his desire to use the university scholarship including the 911 emergency services call obsolete IT equipment, as we do in several prize to become a doctor and provide better platform, telemedicine, teleradiology and other businesses.
Our Panama team also took part in Earth We also sponsored the festival of St. John the We also provided training to Panamanian Hour, joining people across the globe in Baptist in the Panamanian towns of Chitr English teachers using a system for Computer turning off lights and any electrical devices and Aguadulce.
The celebrations combine the Assisted Language Learning which provides for an hour.
religious and folk traditions of Panama.
a wide range of online lessons, support materials, teacher guides, lesson plans, and Our Macau colleagues and their families Our Panama Foundation participated in the homework and lab assignments for students.
took part in the United Nations Plant for IX Ibero-American Congress of Information the Planet: Billion Tree Campaign to create Technology and Special Education which is In Barbados we partnered with the Queen a greener territory while educating young for former Spanish colonies in Latin America.
Elizabeth Hospital to enhance the delivery people about caring for the environment.
The events theme was Towards a Better of patient care through telemedicine.
significant change to the way radiology is Beach cleaning programmes take place delivered, the hospital now has digital CT in many of our business units.
In the scans, x-rays and ultrasound images which Maldives, colleagues cleaned beaches doctors can view at the hospital or remotely.
in Addu, the largest chain of islands in the south of the country.
