responsible business The successful delivery Responsible Business overview of our business strategy To deliver against our responsibilities and realisation of our effectively we focus on five key areas.
These are some highlights from 2012: corporate vision are underpinned by our approach to how we do business We are committed to operating responsibly, making decisions that take account of the impact on those around us.
This approach must be part of everything we do from our day-to-day operations, and dealing with our customers, to the way we invest our funds, help develop our local communities and pay our taxes.
responsible investment The Group Chairman, Patrick OSullivan, has overall responsibility for Old Mutual operating in a responsible Became a signatory to the UN-backed Principles for manner and it is the role of our Responsible Business Responsible Investment UN PRI as an asset owner and undertook a Group-wide review of our current Responsible Committee to champion and challenge our Responsible Investment practices using the UN PRI reporting framework Business approach, helping embed it in all we do.
Committed to the development of Responsible Investment In 2012 we have continued to invest in the policies, processes guidelines for the incorporation of environmental, social and and training that enable us to manage our responsibilities governance criteria into investment decisions for implementation effectively.
We also conducted an internal audit of the in 2013 quality of our Responsible Business data for the first time Continued our involvement in the implementation of the as part of strengthening the accountability and transparency Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa CRISA, of our data.
through our participation in the CRISA Committee.
responsible to our customers Introduced a new and improved process for obtaining customer feedback and identifying opportunities to prioritise improvement actions Appointed Committees for Customer Affairs CCA in two of our long-term savings businesses to ensure a high priority focus on treating customers fairly and learning from customer feedback Continued to provide financial education to our customers through our education programmes.
responsible to our employees Awarded two of South Africas top employer awards for our commitment to employees in Old Mutual South Africa and Mutual & Federal 1 This includes a share of Nedbanks community investment, reflecting Old Extended ACT NOW!
across the Group to promote behaviours Mutuals average percentage ownership of Nedbank.
The same approach that reflect Old Mutual Group values in practice is applied to all Old Mutual joint ventures.
2 Our total carbon dioxide emissions are calculated using the GHG Protocol Achieved our target of having two female members on the plc Corporate Standard methodology using the equity approach.
These figures Board and on target to achieve 2015 target of at least three are rounded to the nearest 1,000 tCO2e.
For more information on our Responsible Business activities and achievements please see our 2012 Responsible Business Report or visit our website at www.
10 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 t n e m n o r i v n What we do E C u s t o m e r s s e i t i n u m m o C E e m c n p a n l How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Responsible Business overview To deliver against our responsibilities effectively we focus on five key areas.
These are some highlights from 2012: responsible to our communities Continued to provide support tailored to the needs of local communities, focusing on financial education Invested 13.4 million 0.8% of pre tax AOP in communities across the Group including giving through our five 1 Old Mutual Foundations and the Nedbank Foundation Developed a new set of Community Investment Principles to sharpen the focus of our community investment decisions on strategic relevance and long-term impact Achieved B-BBEE Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Responsible Level 2 rating for all of our South African businesses.
Business responsible environmental management Reduced overall CO2e emissions since 2010 by nearly 13% Group-wide from 764,000 tCO2e in 2010 to 666,000 tCO2e 2 in 2012 Scope 1 and 2 emissions Listed in Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the fourth year running, ranking 8th in the financial services sector Signed the Carbon Price Communiqu an international coalition of business leaders urging governments to ensure successful transition to a climate-resilient economy.
