The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees and customers are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such, the Group ensures that a high standard of corporate governance is maintained.
Commitment to our customers The Group places the needs of customers at the heart of its day-to-day operations.
With a commitment from the Board, fairness to customers is a key consideration and objective at all stages of the lifetime of a loan.
Training and development The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997.
This demonstrates the Groups commitment to the training and development of employees.
The appraisal system is designed to assist employees in developing their careers and to identify and provide appropriate training opportunities, with all employees receiving a review at least annually.
The corporate training and development strategy focuses on providing opportunities to develop all employees and is central to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
On average employees received 7.8 days training in the year 2011: 8.2 days.
Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of customers.
Employees are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is fully implemented.
The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or af liations disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
18 Corporate social responsibility The Paragon Group of Companies PLC When responding to changes in its business, the Group seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying employees wherever possible.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities, and other under-represented groups, are given full and fair consideration and that such people are given the same training, development and job opportunities as other employees.
Every effort is also made to retrain and support employees who suffer from disabilities during their employment, including the provision of exible working to assist their re-entry into the workplace.
Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train and develop according to their abilities.
Information on the composition of the workforce at the year end is summarised below: 2012 2011 m m Female employees 58.1% 58.4% Female management grade employees 44.5% 45.1% Female directors 11.1% - Ethnic minority employees 11.3% 9.2% Ethnic minority management grade employees 4.4% 3.5% Employees involvement The directors recognise the bene t of keeping employees informed of the progress of the business.
The Group sponsors a Staff Forum, attended by elected employee representatives from each area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate communication and dissemination of information throughout the Group and provides a means by which employees can be consulted on matters affecting them.
Employees are provided with regular information on the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and economic factors affecting it, through information circulars and presentations.
The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a pro t sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible employees to bene t from the performance of the business.
The directors encourage employee involvement at all levels through the appraisal process and communication between directors, managers, teams and individual employees.
Corporate social responsibility 19 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Environmental policy The Group is engaged in mortgage and consumer finance and arrears management and therefore its overall environmental impact is considered to be low.
The main environmental impacts for the Group are limited to universal environmental issues such as resource use, procurement in of ces and business travel.
The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment and operates a Green Charter, which: ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are managed ef ciently by its Facilities Team and Building Surveyor encourages employees to conserve energy provides facilities to enable employees to re-cycle used products controls business travel and provides opportunities for employees to travel to work in various ways: i. e. providing cycle racks and showers where possible displays a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to encourage employees to be environmentally friendly at all times ensures liaison with the local community ensures that redundant IT equipment is disposed of within current directives regulations WEEE - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, recycling 98% of such equipment ensures that all uorescent light tubes are disposed of in a safe manner, compliant with appropriate regulations arranges for paper waste products to be recycled, securely, by third parties The Green Charter is kept under continuous review by the Facilities team.
The Groups paper-based stationery is all procured from FSC certi ed suppliers.
The Group has been involved in no prosecutions, accidents or similar non-compliances in respect of environmental matters.
20 Corporate social responsibility The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The environmental key performance indicators for the Group, determined in accordance with the Reporting Guidelines published by the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in 2006 are set out below.
Direct inputs operational Greenhouse gases fide nition Absolute tonnes C0 Normalised tonnes C0 2 2 per m income 2012 2011 2012 2011 Gas Emissions from utility boilers 366 321 2.1 2.1 Vehicle fuel Petrol and diesel used by staff and company cars 415 496 2.4 3.3 Waste fide nition Absolute tonnes Normalised tonnes per m income 2012 2011 2012 2011 Land ll General of ce waste, which includes a mixture of 134 124 0.8 0.8 paper, card, wood, plastics and metal Recycled General of ce waste recycled, primarily paper and 82 175 0.5 1.2 cardboard Indirect inputs supply chain Greenhouse gases fide nition Absolute tonnes C0 Normalised tonnes C0 2 2 per m income 2012 2011 2012 2011 Energy use Directly purchased electricity, which generates 1,179 1,254 6.9 8.3 greenhouse gas emissions Water fide nition Absolute cubic metres Normalised cubic metres per m income 2012 2011 2012 2011 Supplied water Consumption of piped water.
No water is extracted 10,099 7,231 59.3 47.9 directly by the Group Gas, electricity and water usage is based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices.
Vehicle fuel usage is based on expense claims and recorded mileage and waste generation is based on volumes reported on disposal invoices.
CO values above are calculated based on the DEFRA DECC guidelines published in May 2012.
CO values for the year ended 2 2 30 September 2011 have been restated for the revised conversion factors published by DEFRA DECC.
Normalised data is based on total operating income of 170.2m 2011: 150.9m.
Corporate social responsibility 21 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Health and Safety policy It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent legislation, and to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
The health and safety objective of the Group is to minimise the number of instances of occupational accidents and illnesses and ultimately achieve an accident-free workplace.
The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect the health and safety of all visitors to its premises, including contractors and temporary workers, as well as any members of the public who might be affected by our operations.
While the management of the Group will do all within its power to ensure the health and safety of its employees, it is recognised that health and safety at work is the responsibility of each and every individual associated with the Group.
It is the duty of each employee to take reasonable care of their own and other peoples welfare and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the well-being of any other person.
Health and safety policies and procedures are managed by the Group Services Division which liaises with senior management and Human Resources as necessary.
All employees are provided with such equipment, information, training and supervision as is necessary to implement the policy in order to achieve the above stated objective.
The Group makes available such nances and resources deemed reasonable to implement this policy.
All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work must be reported.
Accident records are crucial to the effective monitoring and revision of the policy and must therefore be accurate and comprehensive.
The Group recognises the civil and moral need to ensure that all employees adhere to this health and safety policy and is prepared to invoke the disciplinary procedure in case of any deliberate disregard for the health and safety policy.
The Groups health and safety policy is continually monitored and updated, particularly when changes in the scale or nature of our operations occur.
The policy is updated at least every 12 months.
A six monthly health and safety report is produced by the Head of Group Services for the Senior Management Group.
Consultants are employed to carry out an annual audit of all health and safety records, including policies, procedures, risk assessments and training records.
Charitable contributions The Group contributes to registered charities relating to financial services or serving the local communities in which it operates.
Included in the charitable contributions shown in the Directors Report are contributions of 353,000 2011: 23,000 made by the Group to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling which operates the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
The Group has also contributed to charities throughout the year by way of single donations.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and local charities although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and varied charities and causes such as: Marie Curie Cancer Care, Childrens Heart Foundation, St Margarets Parents Association, Handicapped Childrens Action Group, Second Chance, The Jennifer Trust, Action for Sick Children, Knowle and Dorridge Lions, Brainwave, Butter ies Childrens Charity, In Touch, Icandance - disabled children dance school, Chicks, Deafness Research UK, Rotary club of St Alphege Youth Speaks, The Neuro Foundation, Foundation for the Study of Infant Deaths, Strongbones Childrens Charitable Trust, Happy Days.
The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a variety of fundraising activities throughout the year, raising in the region of 10,000 for the employees chosen charity.
All employees are given the opportunity to nominate a charity and a vote is carried out to select the bene ciary of the years fundraising.
