Corporate responsibility review Business review Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 79 Corporate responsibility review Creating social and economic value Corporate responsibility CR is integral to the way Serving our customers we do business at Prudential.
This review gives an Today we serve around 24 million insurance customers in diverse overview of our activities.
Prudential also publishes markets where peoples speci c savings, investment and an annual CR report which is available online at protection needs are different.
However, what is common among www.
co. uk all our customers is that the financial decisions they make are among the most important of their lives.
Creating social and economic value The insurance industry plays a unique role in society by helping As a business that provides savings, income, investment and people manage uncertainty and gain security.
Prudential has protection products and services, we create social value through been meeting customers needs for 165 years and we are our day-to-day operations.
We provide customers with ways to always looking for new ways to ensure that we understand our help manage uncertainty and build a more secure future.
By customers long-term financial goals and provide them with playing a key role in financial markets, we provide long-term the right products to help them plan for the future.
We do not capital that nances businesses, builds infrastructure and underestimate how important these decisions are for our fosters growth in both developed and developing countries.
customers, nor do we take for granted the trust they place in At Prudential, we aim to be sustainable in the broadest sense us to deliver for them over the long term.
Our customers have nancially, socially and environmentally.
Sustainability is integral made a choice to purchase from us, and we value highly their to the way we do business.
Our commitments to our customers decision and their loyalty.
and our employees, as well as our support for communities and We want our customers to stay with us for the long term.
We our responsibility towards the environment, are rooted in our aim know this means we must constantly listen to them to understand of continuing to deliver strong financial performance sustainably.
their changing needs, and that we must provide them with fair As a Group with a long-term view, we believe it is important to and transparent products and customer service that participate in global debates and policy considerations that affect maintains their trust and faith in our business.
Across our business, we share our knowledge and expertise to help inform public policy in all our markets.
Asia In the emerging markets of Asia, where we now have 13 million The complexities and challenges surrounding ageing populations insurance customers, the demand for savings and protection have signi cant policy implications in many countries around products continues to grow as people seek greater financial the world.
For example, through our partnership with the security and peace of mind.
We continue to broaden our offering Washington DC-based think tank, the Center for Strategic and to help meet our customers goals.
International Studies CSIS, we have continued to contribute to the debate, through events and seminars with policymakers Prudential Corporation Asia launched a number of tailored promoting the Global Aging Preparedness Index.
PRUmyhealth medical plan was launched in Hong Kong, offering comprehensive health protection with We commissioned additional demographic research in lifetime global coverage, and in Malaysia PRUFlexi Med was partnership with CSIS, looking, in further detail, at retirement launched, which provides customers with the exibility to choose expectations in Asia.
Based on a survey conducted by CSIS in a number of medical bene ts based on their needs.
six East Asia countries, it explores how rapid development and rapid ageing are transforming retirement behaviour Across the region, we have a highly trained tied agency force, and expectations in the emerging world.
The findings of and we provide support to new and experienced agents so that the study were published in 2012 and it is available at they can deliver the best possible service for our customers.
org In Hong Kong, we have developed the Certi ed Agency Builder Programme, through which financial professionals follow a series of certi ed training courses.
Our four guiding CR principles In line with our federal operating model, we believe that A A A A A A A A A A A A A Serving our customers: we aim to provide fair and corporate responsibility is best managed by those closest transparent products which meet our customers needs: to our customers and stakeholders.
Underpinning this A A A A A A A A A A A A A Valuing our people: we aspire to retain and develop highly approach are our four guiding principles.
These provide engaged employees: clarity to our businesses on where they should focus their A A A A A A A A A A A A A Supporting local communities: we seek to make a positive eff orts and resources.
contribution to our communities through long-term partnerships with charitable organisations that make a real diff erence: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A Protecting the environment: we take responsibility for the environment in which we operate.
80 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate responsibility review continued US Asset management Founded over 50 years ago, Jackson National Life is one of the M&G, Prudentials UK and European asset management largest life insurance companies in the United States, providing business, has served retail and institutional investors for over retirement savings and income solutions, with approximately 80 years, investing customers money in equities, xed income 4 million customers.
The US is the worlds largest retirement savings market, with M&G is a long-term investor that takes its responsibilities 1 considerable cohorts of the 78 million baby-boomers reaching as a shareholder seriously, often working closely with the retirement age each year, creating signi cant demand for management of the companies in which it invests.
Active voting retirement income products.
is an integral part of M&Gs investment approach.
We believe that exercising our votes both adds value and protects our interests as Jackson has established a signi cant presence in the alternative shareholders.
The M&G website provides an overview of voting investments market, in a period where customers seek greater history: www.
co. uk Corporate  security in times of economic uncertainty, and is a leader in CorporateGovernance Votinghistory.
jsp alternative investments in the retail adviser market.
M&Gs retail business launched the Bond Vigilantes blog Elite Access was created in 2012 to make Jacksons products providing market insight straight from the trading oor.
In available to a much greater range of customers.
Elite Access is a addition to the constant stream of market views posted by M&G, variable annuity designed to combat the volatility of the market comments are posted by users, establishing the blog as a genuine by providing investors with the opportunity for greater portfolio discussion forum.
diversi cation through the use of alternative asset classes.
Valuing our people UK We aim to create an environment that enables our people to nd In the UK, challenging economic conditions continued to persist value and meaning in their work, and to deliver outstanding in 2012 and have led customers, more than ever, to seek financial performance for our customers, shareholders and communities.
products that offer them the highest level of security from This is essential to our continued success, and is performed companies they feel they can trust.
through our focus on four key areas diversity and inclusion, Annuities are a key product for Prudential UK and market rates talent development, employee engagement, and performance were at near historic lows during 2012.
This means that it is more and reward.
important than ever for customers looking to take income from their pensions to make informed choices.
Our UK business paid Diversity and inclusion out 2.9 billion in income to UK annuitants in 2012.
We provide opportunities for our people regardless of their gender, ethnicity, disability status, age, religion, caring Over the last decade, Prudential has been widely recognised as responsibilities or sexual orientation.
the UKs leading with-pro ts manager.
Our long-term approach to the management of the with-pro ts fund has continued to Our diversity and inclusion policies are guided by the principles bene t customers during 2012, as it helps to provide protection of the UNs Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the from the full impact of volatile market conditions.
The fund has International Labour Organisations core labour standards.
These consistently outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index.
Over the are also incorporated in our Group Code of Business Conduct, last 15 years, the fund has delivered a cumulative investment which sets expected standards of employee behaviour.
return of 184.3 per cent on investments covering policyholder We maintain an inclusive culture that is sensitive to the needs of liabilities.
This compares favourably with the FTSE All-Share employees with a disability.
We continue employing people who Index total return of 106.5 per cent over the same period.
become disabled, and provide training and career development Total bonus payments are expected to top 2 billion in 2013, opportunities for all.
We also give full and fair consideration and and our policyholders will typically see year-on-year increases encouragement to all applicants with suitable aptitude and of between 3.5 per cent and 6.5 per cent in accumulating abilities, regardless of disability.
Since 2003, an estimated 22 billion has been added to policy values.
We are committed to responding to customer concerns quickly and ef ciently.
The details of our approach to customers are published on the Prudential UK website in line with FSA guidance at www.
co. uk about us complaints data Prudential UK was in the best performing 8 per cent, up from 15 per cent in 2011, of financial companies included in data published by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Note 1 Source: US Census Bureau Corporate responsibility review Business review Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 81 We have several initiatives in place to maintain our commitment Employee engagement to diversity and inclusion.
These include: We strive to create a work environment and conditions that are conducive to a culture of engagement.
Engaging our employees A A A A A A A A A A A A A Apprenticeship schemes and support for underprivileged is critical to sustaining a high-performing business and retaining students to provide entry-level positions for young people: talent.
In 2012, we utilised a range of mechanisms to drive A A A A A A A A A A A A A Training in unconscious bias to improve inclusion throughout engagement at all levels.
the organisation: At Group Head Of ce, the Connect programme of lunchtime A A A A A A A A A A A A A Pay reviews to prevent systematic concerns around equal pay events brings together colleagues on subjects ranging from and opportunity by gender, ethnic group and working learning about developments in the business and Prudentials patterns: and heritage, to themes like parenting.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A Collaborative partnerships with organisations that strengthen The wellbeing of our employees is paramount.
We have a series and further the diversity and inclusion agenda, such as the of initiatives, including assessments, activity programmes and Diversity and Inclusion in Asia Network DIAN, and access to con dential telephone and face-to-face coaching and Peckham, an American non-pro t community rehabilitation counselling with professionals.
In the UK, we are also sponsors of the 2012 Across Prudential, we encourage continuous dialogue to engage Working Mums Top Employer Awards, and co-sponsors with our employees.
Through events and open forums such as of the inaugural Women in Investment Management event the M&G Staff Consultative Committee and the Employee Forum targeting female students.
within Prudential UK employees can engage directly with their executive teams and raise questions.
In addition, our businesses Talent development in the UK have a long-standing relationship with the union Unite.
All employees are encouraged to take responsibility for driving their own development and agreeing plans with their The success of our engagement efforts have been recognised managers.
To support them, the organisation provides on-going internally and externally.
Engagement surveys in various development activities.
The majority of these activities sit within business units have shown excellent results and several of our our business units, while Group HR focuses on programmes for businesses have won prestigious awards.
For example, M&G was senior leaders across the organisation.
named one of the best places to work in the City by the website Here is the City News, and was also the highest-rated asset At Group level, the emphasis is on succession planning for senior management rm in a survey voted for by employees, and a roles and development of our overall leadership talent pipeline.
number of our businesses in Asia, including our Life business in In support of this, there are a number of new Group-wide Singapore, were awarded The People Developer Standard.
In addition to The Top 100 initiative, which focuses on individually tailored development for our most Performance and reward senior executives, we provide programmes that are speci cally We offer reward packages that support a high-performing designed to enhance colleagues cross-business unit functional organisation, in order to attract, retain and motivate talented leadership skills and experience.
Each individual contributes to the success of the Group Within our businesses, there are several programmes that and should be rewarded accordingly.
demonstrate our commitment to furthering talent.
Prudential Rewards are linked to the delivery of business goals and Corporation Asia developed a holistic Talent Development expected behaviours.
We place emphasis on goals being met in Framework with clear segmentation, to enable the identi cation of an appropriate manner.
To ensure this, employees are not only talent in each market, as well as the design and accurate targeting regularly assessed on what they have achieved, but also on of top of the class leadership development programmes.
In the US, The Jackson University continues to provide We believe it is important for our employees to have the business-speci c development activities for employees.
opportunity to bene t from the Groups success through share Jacksons senior management team play a central role in shaping ownership.
In the UK, we operate two all-employee share plans: the curriculum, ensuring it aligns to major corporate initiatives a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Save As You Earn SAYE for the business.
In addition, the LEAP programme for senior scheme.
In 2012, a majority of eligible employees participated in leaders aims to accelerate their leadership potential and one or both of these plans.
In Asia, we operate two SAYE schemes, similar to those in the UK.
In our UK-based businesses, we have various programmes Participation in these schemes continues to grow strongly among designed to create focused learning networks and active talent our employees and agents.
These include: M&Gs Cornerstone, focused on senior management: Catalyst, aimed at junior talent: Investor Development Programmes: and Sales Business Leadership Programmes.
Prudential UK provides Career Development Centres for middle managers, and at Group Head Of ce, Enhance offers employees the opportunity to hone their skills for working effectively and to develop in areas such as cross-cultural awareness and building effectiveness partnerships.
82 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate responsibility review continued Supporting local communities In the US, Jackson, alongside employees from across the Group, provided more than 5,000 volunteer hours in support of financial As a long-term business, we are committed to supporting the long-term well-being of the communities in which we operate.
literacy as part of its work with Junior Achievement, a charity which teaches young people about money management and how The social value of our business helping customers manage business works.
Jackson is one of only 10 companies across the uncertainty and build a more secure future, as well as our US to have been awarded a Bronze US Presidents Volunteer investments providing long-term capital that nances businesses, Service Award for the 2011-2012 programme.
builds infrastructure and fosters economic growth is further underpinned by our community programmes and activities.
Improving education and skills Each of Prudentials businesses has community investment In Asia, with the support of the Ministry of Education, PCA programmes in place which provide support to charitable partnered with the China Insurance Regulatory Commission organisations, both through funding and the experience and and the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences to develop an expertise of our employees.
insurance educational course that could be taught across schools in China.
Since its launch in 2007, more than 57,000 children Last year more than 7,350 employees across the Group gave have bene ted from the course to date, strengthening their up their time to help in their communities, using their skills and knowledge of insurance and how it relates to their everyday lives.
In the UK, the Business Class programme, run by Business in the We establish long-term relationships with our charity partners Community, gives Prudential UK colleagues the opportunity to to ensure that the projects we support are sustainable, and we use their knowledge, experience and skills to help with some of work closely with them to ensure that our programmes the most pressing issues in local schools.
with schools in the most deprived areas, and work strategically for three years on an action plan driven by the schools needs, The diversity of our markets means that our programmes vary from region to region, but a shared focus for our community covering areas such as leadership, curriculum and achievement.
In 2012, the programme helped 15 schools, 7,500 students and investment is education and life skills.
These activities include financial education, support to improve social mobility and 90 teachers.
Through the partnership, 86 volunteers are working with schools in Reading, Stirling and Westminster.
As well as supporting Financial education performance management training and people management Financial education forms an important part of our educational skills for senior teachers and school leaders, a menu of activity.
We believe that encouraging people to manage their activities has been created to help young people understand money prudently helps to underpin overall economic the opportunities available to them when they leave school, as development and success for communities.
well as working with young people to improve their con dence Cha-Ching, PCAs agship regional financial education and motivation.
programme, gathered greater momentum in 2012.
At Group Head Of ce, a new charitable partnership was established in 2012 with Greenhouse, a London-based charity Cha-Ching was launched in seven countries in 2011, to help parents in Asia develop money-smart values among children which assists young people in some of the most deprived areas of the city.
It uses sport, including basketball, to turn young lives from the ages of seven to 12.
The programme has produced a series of three-minute music videos with sing-a-long subtitles around.
Sports coaches work full-time in schools to help young people improve their health and tness, while mentoring them to that teach children about four key money management concepts Earn, Save, Spend and Donate through a band of six increase their engagement with their education and community.
Prudentials support enables over 1,000 disadvantaged characters.
These videos have been shown daily on the Cartoon Network, Asias most watched childrens channel.
Cha-Ching is young people to participate weekly through Greenhouses basketball programme.
supported by an interactive website www.
com and mobile applications offering digital resources for parents, Employee volunteering children and teachers.
We believe in sharing the skills of our global workforce with their In 2012, Cha-Ching was developed with the launch of Season local communities.
Many of our employees play an active role Two, featuring three new music videos on budgeting, credit through volunteering, charitable donations and fundraising.
A new online game, Cha-Ching Saver World Tour, Financial support is always important, but it is the combination and a first mobile game app, Cha-Ching Band Manager, were of all these resources that means we can make a far more positive also launched.
contribution to all our communities across the globe.
We Over the last year, Cha-Ching has received signi cant support recognise that employee volunteering brings bene t not only to the charities, but also to the development of our people, and we across the region, with more than 20,000 children and teachers bene ting from the programme to date.
In April 2012, the actively encourage colleagues to participate in our programmes.
Philippines Department of Education signed a Memorandum of Agreement to incorporate Cha-Ching into the curriculum of public primary schools, and NGOs including Junior Achievement have organised Cha-Ching workshops for children in Hong Kong and Thailand.
Singapore Airlines and Garuda Indonesia have incorporated the music videos into their inight entertainment content for travelling families.
Corporate responsibility review Business review Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 83 Since its launch in Asia eight years ago, the Investing in Your Prudential RideLondon Future volunteer-led financial literacy programme has reached Prudential is sponsoring RideLondon, an annual two-day festival more than 38,000 women.
These seminars teach basic financial of cycling which was formally launched in February 2013 with the planning skills for different stages in their lives.
Female volunteers Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, who predicted the event will from Prudential donate their time and expertise to deliver the become a living legacy of the London Olympic and Paralympic seminars in China, India, Indonesia and Vietnam.
The project works Games of 2012.
Prudential RideLondon will be a world-class closely with the All-China Womens Federation, the Womens festival of cycling, starting in August 2013, that combines a free Association and Labour Union in Vietnam, and the Ministry of family ride in central London, a world-class professional cyclists Womens Empowerment and Child Protection in Indonesia.
race and an amateur cyclists race to raise money for charity.
In the US, Jackson staff gave over 6,500 volunteer hours in Disaster relief and preparedness 2012, providing support to local charities bene ting children Many of our customers in Asia are located in areas prone to and the elderly.
For a number of years we have supported local In the UK, 43 per cent of Prudential UK employees took part in initiatives to support relief efforts following disasters in countries volunteering during 2012, mentoring schoolchildren, supporting where we operate, and we also maintain a disaster relief fund the elderly and skills-sharing with local charities.
which can be activated in emergencies.
Our commitment to disaster relief also often goes beyond financial aid, with our At M&G, 118 employees have been actively involved in initiatives people helping on the ground.
with community organisations, charities and schools in and around Chelmsford and London.
In October 2011, many areas of northern and central Thailand were hit by severe ooding caused by tropical storm Nalgae.
Chairmans Challenge More than 13 million people were affected by the catastrophe In 2012, 4,500 employees volunteered through Prudentials which caused the loss of 750 lives.
agship international programme, the Chairmans Challenge.
In the aftermath of the disaster, Prudential partnered with Help The programme encourages employees from across the Group Age International and FOPDEV Foundation for Older Persons to volunteer on projects initiated by our global charity partners, Development to provide help where it was needed most.
In June including Plan International, Help Age International and Junior 2012, a team of 65 PRUvolunteers from 10 countries across Asia, Achievement.
It allows us to support many different charities supported by our Thai colleagues, travelled to Fang District in with volunteers, as well as financial support.
Prudential donates northern Thailand for six days to help build and renovate 150 to our charity partners for every employee who registers for ood-resistant homes for old people in Mai Ai, as part of the the programme.
Charity partners use this money to seed-fund New House for New Life project.
The team also helped charitable projects for Prudential volunteers.
renovate a school, built a dam for improved water management, Each year, employees across the Group vote for the shortlisted and participated in an evacuation simulation exercise with the project they believe has made the greatest impact.
In 2012, the residents to better prepare them for future oods.
winning project was Learning About Earning.
This programme In 2012, the Prudence Foundation was established in Asia as a in partnership with Junior Achievement bene ted 234 uni ed platform to coordinate charitable activity in the region.
impoverished children from a small village outside Jakarta, As part of the creation of the Prudence Foundation, Prudential through the commitment of 430 employees from Prudential Corporation Asias approach has turned to disaster Corporation Asias Indonesian business, who helped the preparedness.
A designated fund has been established to help children develop basic communication and financial skills.
communities develop preventative programmes before disasters occur to improve the ability of communities to better prepare for, Shortlisted projects 2012: cope with and recover from any unfortunate natural disasters.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A The Taiwan Fund For Children and Families TFCF Childrens Financial Camp Annual Child Protection Campaign and Wishing Doll Fundraising Campaign.
766 employees volunteered in 2012, 30 of whom used their business skills to design and deliver four financial camps to 120 disadvantaged children, while the remainder supported the TFCFs protection and fundraising campaign: A A A A A A A A A A A A A Snehasadan, Mumbai Holistic Development of Children.
The programme rehabilitates homeless children and gives them education, life skills and professional training to make them independent.
50 volunteers supported the project for the first time in 2012, bene ting 240 children: A A A A A A A A A A A A A Junior Achievement, US Economic Gardening: Growing Success One Student At A Time.
528 Jackson employees were involved in volunteering activities either in the classroom delivering financial literacy sessions or through fundraising: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A Junior Achievement Thailand Cha-Ching in Ourselves.
140 Prudential Corporation Asia employees dedicated volunteering time to educate young people in financial literacy skills.
84 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate responsibility review continued Charitable donations Reducing our direct impact: occupied properties We calculate our community investment spend using the We monitor energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, internationally recognised London Benchmarking Group water consumption, waste, paper use and recycling at all our UK standard.
This includes cash donations to registered sites, and at Jacksons main premises in North America in Lansing, charitable organisations, as well as a cash equivalent for Michigan, Denver, Colorado, and Nashville, Tennessee.
monitor energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions from 46 occupied properties in Asia, where Prudential Corporation In 2012, the Group spent 12.6 million supporting community Asia occupies approximately 20,000 square feet or more, for a activities, an increase of 39.5 per cent on 2011. combined total of 2.45 million square feet.
The direct cash donations to charitable organisations amounted The Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Ef ciency to 9.6 million, of which approximately 4.0 million came from Scheme is a mandatory UK scheme aimed at improving energy our EU operations, which are principally our UK insurance ef ciency and cutting carbon dioxide emissions in large public operation and M&G, with the remaining 5.6 million being and private sector organisations, which are responsible for contributed to charitable organisations by Jackson National Life around 12 per cent of the UKs emissions.
The scheme features Insurance Company and Prudential Corporation Asia.
a range of reputational and financial drivers, which aim to The cash contribution to charitable organisations from our encourage organisations to develop energy management EU operations is broken down as follows: education 1.3 million: strategies that promote a better understanding of energy usage.
social, welfare and environment 2.4 million: cultural 0.2 million All CRC participants must measure and report carbon emissions and staff volunteering 0.1 million.
The first CRC performance league table, which is due to be updated later this year, placed Prudential ahead of its Political donations insurance peer group.
In 2012, for the first time, participants had It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties, to purchase allowances from the Government before the end of nor to incur political expenditure, within the meaning of those July.
Prudentials annual carbon emission for the 2011 12 expressions as fide ned in the Political Parties, Elections and compliance year was 75,742 tonnes of CO, 5,438 tonnes 2 Referendums Act 2000.
The Group did not make any such less than in 2010 11, which translated into a financial liability donations or incur any such expenditure in 2012. of 908,904.
Corporate Property continues to maintain certi cation Protecting the environment to ISO 14001 an internationally recognised standard for We recognise that managing our buildings ef ciently and environmental management for services it provides to UK minimising our greenhouse gas emissions is not only bene cial Business Units.
Compliance with ISO 14001 drives improved to the environment but also makes good business sense.
We aim to ensure that we minimise the impact of our activities The Environmental Forum, a sub-group of Prudential plcs on the environment.
Our strategy focuses on reducing the direct Environment Health and Safety Council, is supporting impact of the properties we occupy, as well as the properties we Corporate Propertys UK Environmental Employee Engagement manage through PRUPIM Prudential Property Investment programme.
This initiative focuses on encouraging employees Managers Limited, which is a top-25 global real estate fund to make their own contribution to help their Business Unit manager, with 16 billion of assets under management improve its environmental performance.
Each UK Business Unit at 31 December 2012. has signed up to the programme to meet the challenge by a mix of intranet campaigns, competitions, employee forums and attitude surveys.
There will be a new mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting requirement for all listed companies on the London Stock Exchange.
Prudential plc will include a carbon footprint report in its Annual Report 2013.
Corporate responsibility review Business review Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 85 Reducing our impact: property investment portfolio Payment policy The fundamental principle behind PRUPIMs approach to It is our Group policy to agree terms of payment when orders for Responsible Property Investment is that by having a leading goods and services are placed, and to pay in accordance with position we are better able to protect and enhance those terms.
This strategy focuses on four In the UK, we have signed up to the Prompt Payment Code, areas: ensuring portfolio resilience: driving environmental launched in December 2008 by the UK Department for Business, improvements: building strong relationships: and responsibility Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
In 2012, our trade creditor in its own operations.
days, based on the ratio of amounts that were owed to trade PRUPIMs focus on delivering energy reductions across its creditors at the year end to the aggregate of the amounts managed portfolio has achieved some signi cant results.
For invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were 22 days example, in the UK, PRUPIM has reduced carbon emissions 2011: 22 days.
intensity by 17 per cent at 23 of its largest multi-let of ces and The Prompt Payment Code and its signatories can be found at 16 per cent at its shopping centres, generating savings of over www.
uk 3.6 million for its occupiers.
Its UK shopping centres now divert 80 per cent of waste from land ll and 49 per cent of waste is Supply chain management diverted from land ll at our ISO 14001 of ces.
Prudential recognises that its own social, environmental and We have also achieved the environmental standard ISO 14001 economic impacts go beyond the products and services it at nine shopping centres and 27 multi-let of ces, which together supplies, to include the performance of its suppliers and account for 64 per cent of the carbon emission under contractors.
It is our policy to work in partnership with suppliers whose values PRUPIMs approach and progress can be found in its annual and standards are aligned with our Group Code of Business Responsible Property Investment report at www.
Procurement practices in Prudential UK have been successfully Accountability and governance accredited with the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and The Board Supply certi cation, an industry benchmark of recognised The Board regularly reviews the Groups CR performance and good practice.
scrutinises and approves the Group CR report and strategy on an annual basis.
Code of Business Conduct Consideration of environmental, social and community matters is integrated in our Code of Business Conduct.
Our code is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Refer to page 98 for more information.
Local governance In M&G, Jackson and Prudential UK there are governance committees in place with senior management representation which agree strategy and spend.
In Asia, the Prudence Foundation has been established as a uni ed charitable platform to align and maximise the impact of community efforts across the region.
86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 87 Section 3 Governance 88 Board of directors 93 Corporate Governance report: 93 Role of the Board and Governance Framework 100 Audit Committee report 103 Nomination Committee report 104 Risk Committee report 105 Risk governance 107 Relations with shareholders 110 Additional disclosures 111 Index to principal directors report disclosures
