Corporate responsibility report Introduction Our strategy I am pleased to introduce the fifth annual corporate Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy can be responsibility report of the social and environmental summarised as follows: committee SEC, which I chair.
The SEC is responsible for Environment ensuring that Rathbones effectively manages its sustainability Manage our environmental impact and reduce our carbon issues.
It is formed by members of staff from key functions footprint by the efficient use of resources.
such as facilities, HR, marketing, IT and investment management.
It meets on a quarterly basis and reports Clients directly to the executive committee of the Board.
Maintain and develop the relationships we have with our clients, treat them fairly and continue to meet their needs.
With regard to environmental, social and governance ESG matters as they affect our business, the Board believes that Investments the SEC has identified and assessed the significant risks to the Consider corporate responsibility and governance Companys short and long term value.
issues in the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
2012 was a challenging year for our IT and facilities teams with the move of our head office in February and a Employees number of other office changes and planned openings.
Motivate and reward appropriately, encouraging their I am pleased that our new London office uses approximately development.
5% less electricity per square metre than our old London Communities offices.
However, we are now in a shared office which Engage in the communities in which we operate.
makes energy usage measurement and waste recycling rather more challenging.
Environment Despite the growth in our business, our total carbon footprint has remained broadly unchanged at 2,362 tonnes As a responsible business, Rathbones believes that of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO2e.
I am pleased to report environmental concerns should be central to our strategy, that our carbon intensity per employee has fallen by 5.6% so we take responsibility for, and action to, reduce our in 2012 following on from a fall of 4.7% in 2011. impact on the environment.
We have been calculating our greenhouse gas emissions from buildings and business The Company has continued its partnership with travel, paper use and waste generation for the past five years ClimateCare and offset 2,300 tCO2e in 2012.
We will, and we continue to use this data to drive reductions.
however, continue to strive to reduce our environmental impact wherever possible.
2013 is going to see a change in corporate reporting.
UK registered companies are to be required under the Companies Rathbones is committed to act as a good corporate citizen Act 2006 to calculate and declare their CO2-equivalent and takes its responsibilities as investment manager, employer emissions using an established methodology, including a and purchaser seriously.
The Company remains a constituent CO2 intensity ratio for example, kilograms of CO2 per company of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
square metre of floor area.
Andy Pomfret Whilst these requirements will only take effect for next years Chief Executive reporting period, we are confident that the accuracy and Chairman of the SEC transparency of the reporting herein, and for the previous four years, more than meets the requirements.
Scope Our reporting period covers the year to 30 September 2012 2011 12 with comparative figures for our previous reporting period 2010 11 and baseline year 2007 8.
Building energy use This year has seen a change in our London operations.
In February 2012 we moved into a modern new head office at 1 Curzon Street.
For the previous 12 years we were in two adjacent buildings on New Bond Street.
1 Factors such as this and a warmer winter have meant that 2 our CO2 from gas and electricity per m of floor area has 2 dropped by 10% across our offices compared to 2010 11.
32 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility report continued Environment continued These and other factors have resulted in our travel CO2 emissions per staff member Our new head office uses approximately decreasing 18% since 2007 8, although this has increased 3% since 2010 11 which is 2 5% less electricity per m of floor area than due to an overall increase in journeys.
For our previous offices example, the distance we travelled on trains has gone up 23%.
This is largely due to a number of regional investment managers spending an increased amount of their time 2 Building kgCO2 per m in the London office, along with the roll out across all offices of a major IT project.
2011 12: 141 2010 11: 157 Paper 2007 8: 173 We consider the two key environmental performance indicators for us are: We are also using our space more efficiently: our CO2 emissions from gas and electricity have reduced by 3% per the recycled content of our paper and printed employee compared with 2010 11 across our offices.
material: and Tonnes of CO2 from buildings per full time equivalent FTE staff member the total amount of printed material we use per bn 2011 12: 2.4 funds under management FUM.
2010 11: 2.6 Tens of thousands of A4 sheets equivalent per bn funds under 2007 8: 2.9 management at 31 December 2011 12: 117 This has contributed to a steady reduction in the total 2010 11: 122 CO2 emissions from gas and electricity of 4% since 2007 8 2007 8: 160 the year in which data first became available.
Travel The overall weight of paper used has gone up 16% since 2010 11.
This is partly due to the development of our Business travel accounts for 19% of our carbon footprint marketing material, including an improved private client and we are taking steps to make reductions in this area.
magazine, Rathbones Review, which now has a significantly We have rolled out video conferencing facilities across all our increased circulation, and an expanded range of marketing offices, and our travel team have been encouraging employees material issued to a larger number of potential clients.
to use the most effective way of travelling from a cost and CO2 perspective.
Percentage of the pulp that went into making our paper and printed materials that was post-consumer recycled Travel kgCO2 per full time equivalent staff member 2011 12: 54 2011 12: 583 2010 11: 66 2010 11: 565 2007 8: 78 2007 8: 714 The recycled content of our paper and printed materials has decreased from 78% in 2007 8 to 54%.
This is linked to the increase in marketing materials.
The quality of high recycled content paper was seen to be too low for our marketing purposes.
However, we aim to use paper with the highest recycled content acceptable, and we always require that our paper stocks are covered by a chain of custody certificate such as Forest Stewardship Council FSC, which ensures that the wood used to make the paper is obtained from sustainably managed forests.
All printed material issued by Rathbone Greenbank Investments uses 100% recycled paper.
1 2011 12 was warmer than 2010 11: there were approximately 10% fewer heating degree days Liverpool and London average 2 During 2010 11, core IT and communications facilities in our London office were outsourced to an offsite data centre.
As per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, electricity consumed by the data centre since the relocation has been included under Scope 3 emissions.
However, where we have stated herein a figure that includes electricity use we have included the data centre, as we felt that to exclude it would be misleading Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 33 Corporate responsibility report continued Environment continued We have achieved an absolute reduction of 5% in our total tCO2e since 2007 8.
At the Waste and recycling same time, our business has expanded: for every billion pounds of FUM, we produce 50 tonnes of furniture was sent for reuse 131 tCO2e, a 13% reduction since 2010 11 when we moved offices in London.
Gathering robust waste and recycling data is proving Total tCO2e per bn FUM challenging.
We have had to recognise that we cannot draw 2011 12: 131 conclusions from our waste data this year.
2010 11: 150 2007 8: 237 All our offices have recycling facilities and we are confident that we are recycling a significant proportion of our waste, We consider FUM to be a key indicator of our business but we are not able to support this with robust data.
activity, so tCO2e per bn FUM is an important metric for One of our objectives for the coming year is to ensure how well we are managing our environmental impact.
with Carbon Smarts help that we put in place protocols to Other metrics for 2011 12 include: capture robust data on our waste management performance.
15.18 tCO2e per m operating income: down 8% from These protocols will help to ensure that next year we can 2010 11 and 19% from 2007 8 establish whether we are continuing our previous good practice in managing the environmental impact of our 3.03 tCO2e per full time equivalent staff member: down waste streams.
6% from 2010 11 and 18% from 2007 8 Carbon footprint 2 0.17 tCO2e from building energy use per m internal floor 3 area: down 11% from 2011 12 and 23% since 2007 8 Our carbon footprint of 2,362 tCO2e includes 455 tCO2e from our staff business travel: this includes air 189 tCO2e, cars 140 tCO2e, trains 120 tCO2e and taxis 6 tCO2e.
As per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, electricity consumed 3 Throughout this report, we have expressed our carbon footprint in terms of tonnes of by the data centre since the relocation has been included under Scope 3 emissions.
CO2 equivalent tCO2e to accommodate non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions In 2011 12, the amount of equipment installed and data traffic through the data centre increased significantly.
However, where we have stated herein a figure that includes 4 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines three scopes of CO2e emissions.
Scope 1 electricity use we have included the data centre, as we felt that to exclude it would consists of all direct operational emissions mainly from fuels combusted at Rathbones be misleading sites natural gas for heating and our company cars, Scope 2 covers purchased electricity and Scope 3 consists of significant indirect operational emissions, primarily 6 In accordance with reporting standards, the 2010 11 emissions have been recalculated from business travel using the latest emission factors.
This has resulted in a reduction of 14 tCO2e 34 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility report continued Environment continued 3 Clarify expenses procedures to ensure journey details are provided for all flights and rail journeys.
Carbon footprint 2011 12 2010 11 2007 8 On track 4 If we receive an expenses claim that does not detail to Scope 1 Natural gas 282 282 293 and from we send it back and ask for more information.
Company cars 1 17 4 Improve our waste data quality rating to 3 in 2012.
4 Scope 2 Electricity 1,503 1,628 1,691 Not achieved Waste data quality downgraded to 1.
Objective carried Scope 3 5 over to next year.
Data centre 122 50 Business travel 455 420 481 5 Increase the proportion of clients who receive portfolio 6 Total tonnes of CO2e 2,362 2,381 2,482 information in digital format rather than hardcopy.
On track Procedures and calculations used in compiling this data are in Approximately 10% of our clients now receive their accordance with the requirements of the following standards: portfolio information solely in digital format, up from the World Resources Institute WRI Greenhouse Gas GHG 2% in 2010 11.
Protocol revised version : Defra Guidance on How to Report GHG Emissions September 2009 and ISO 14064 part 1.
Our objectives for 2012 13 Carbon offsetting 1 Continue to grow our business without a corresponding increase in our CO2 emissions.
This year we have again taken responsibility for our unavoidable business emissions, by purchasing 2,300 tonnes 2 Put in place protocols to capture robust data on our of carbon credits through high-quality emission reduction waste management performance.
3 Include the CO2 from our paper use and waste We chose the projects not only for their robust approach generation in our carbon footprint and start to use this to emissions reductions but also because each one to drive reductions.
contributes towards the sustainable development of local 4 Investigate the opportunities for improving the quality of communities, whilst helping to improve incomes, health data that we have on our energy use at our head office.
The specific projects we have invested in are certified under the Voluntary Carbon Standard and the Gold Standard for 7 Verified Emissions Reduction.
Further details are available from the ClimateCare website www.
Objectives The objectives we set for 2011 12 1 Ensure our new London office is more energy efficient than the previous London offices.
Achieved 2 Approximately 5% less electricity per m floor area gas data is less reliable, as we only have cost data from the landlord.
2 Encourage the increased use of video conferencing and reduce the number of domestic flights.
On track There is video conferencing in all offices and we have made a 5% reduction in the number of domestic flights.
7 The three projects are: Improved Cook Stoves in Cambodia, Wayang Windu geothermal in Indonesia and Gyapa Stoves in Ghana Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 35 Corporate responsibility report continued Environment continued Transparency Carbon Smart opinion statement Where relevant, we have included appropriate references to the accounting and calculation methodologies, assumptions and re-calculations performed.
Accuracy To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
Carbon Smarts statement provides Rathbones and its Data quality stakeholders with a third party assessment of the quality and reliability of Rathbones carbon footprint data for the Carbon Smart has assessed the data quality against the reporting period 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012.
Data from each emission It does not represent an independent third party assurance source has been rated 1 poorest to 5 best.
For this year, of Rathbones management approach to sustainability.
overall data quality has been reduced to 3.0 from 3.6 in 2010 11.
Contributing factors include: Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbones for the fifth consecutive year to calculate Rathbones Head office gas data is derived from a monetary figure carbon footprint for all offices for its 2012 corporate provided by the landlord: responsibility report.
Through this engagement Carbon Head office electricity data is derived from an overall Smart has assured Rathbones that the reported carbon kWh figure provided by the landlord: and footprint is representative of the business and that the data presented is credible and compliant with appropriate The Birmingham, Exeter and Jersey offices could standards and industry practices.
Data has been collected not provide energy data, so benchmarks were used and calculated following the ISO 14064 part 1 standard Birmingham provided electricity data, but not gas.
and verified against the WRI GHG Protocol principles % of completeness, consistency and accuracy.
Carbon Data quality rating footprint 2011 12 2011 12 2010 11 2007 8 Carbon Smarts work has included interviews with key Overall 100% 3.0 3.6 2.6 Rathbones personnel, a review of internal and external Scope 1 13% 3.0 4.0 2.0 documentation, interrogation of source data and data Scope 2 64% 3.0 4.0 3.0 collection systems including comparison with, and Scope 3 23% 4.0 4.0 2.0 appropriate recalculation of, the previous years data.
Paper 4.0 4.0 4.0 Carbon Smart has concluded the points listed below.
Waste and recycling 1.0 2.0 2.0 Relevance Ben Murray We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately Director reflects the GHG emissions of the Company and serves the decision making needs of users, both internal and external Carbon Smart Limited to the Company.
19 February 2013 Completeness Rathbones continues to use the financial control approach and calculate total direct Scope 1, 2 and major Scope 3 emissions.
Reported environmental data covers all employees and all entities that meet the criteria of being subject to control or significant influence of the reporting organisation.
We recommend that Rathbones continues to improve its data collection processes, particularly in the area of waste management.
Consistency In order to ensure comparability, we have used the same calculation methodologies and assumptions as previous years and changed the emission factors used for the newest appropriate releases.
36 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility report continued Clients and investments UK equity it holds on behalf of its clients.
Voting is also undertaken on any company if requested by an Responsible investment underlying shareholder.
Although general investment activities are not covered During 2012, the committee oversaw active proxy voting by a formal responsible investment policy, we take into at 269 company meetings and on 3,428 resolutions in total.
account social, environmental and ethical considerations for Voting on these resolutions include consideration of such specific mandates throughout the Group, particularly those issues as executive remuneration, auditor independence, managed by our specialist ethical investment unit, Rathbone appointment of directors and non-financial reporting, Greenbank Investments.
As at 31 December 2012, Rathbone Greenbank Investments Engagement had 525 million of funds under management, representing 3.1% of funds managed by Investment Management.
Engagement with companies on ESG matters is mainly undertaken by Rathbone Greenbank Investments Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone ethical research team.
This ranges from low-level contact Unit Trust Managements Ethical Bond Fund, the Company with companies on issues relating to ESG disclosure is able to provide investment services tailored to clients to participation in co-filing and voting on shareholder interests in the area of socially responsible or sustainable resolutions at company AGMs.
Where appropriate, the Company is also able occur as a result of fundamental analysis of companies to participate in new share issues offered by companies ESG reporting or through collaborative efforts initiated that provide environmentally or socially beneficial products by interest groups such as UKSIF or the PRIs or services.
Affiliations FTSE4Good ESG ratings scores for Rathbones Rathbone Brothers Plc has been a signatory to the As institutional investors around the world put increasing Carbon Disclosure Project CDP since 2006 and to its focus on the ESG practices of the companies they invest Water Disclosure programme since 2010. in, ESG risk measures are an increasingly important part The Group also became a signatory to the UN-backed of the investment process.
Principles for Responsible Investment in September 2009.
The FTSE4Good Index and ratings have been designed to In addition, Rathbone Greenbank Investments is a measure the performance of companies that meet or exceed long-standing member of influential groups such as the globally recognised standards.
UK Sustainable and Investment Finance association UKSIF and the Ecumenical Council for Corporate Responsibility, The Indexs latest semi-annual review in September 2012 as well as being a founding endorser of the Forest Footprint confirmed Rathbone Brothers Plc as a constituent of the Disclosure Project, which will become part of the CDP FTSE4Good Index Series, awarding the Company the from 2013. following ESG ratings.
Voting Overall ESG rating 0 5 Environment Social Governance Absolute score The Groups voting activity is coordinated by its corporate 3 3 4 3.4 governance committee.
Composed of investment managers and representatives of internal teams from across the FTSE4Good ESG ratings also award an overall score business, the committee maintains Group policy on corporate relative to each companys super-sector, which, in the case governance, and ensures its application in proxy voting of Rathbone Brothers Plc, is Financial Services.
An adjusted through the maintenance of a contract with an external score based on the level of risk associated with our super-sector corporate governance consultant.
Advice and research is calculated and then readjusted relative to our peers.
On this received by the committee supplements the analysis carried basis, Rathbones scored 78 out of 100 in this review.
out by the stock selection and collectives committees as part of the investment process.
The committee was established in line with Rathbones obligations under the Principles for Responsible Investment PRI, and pays heed to the Stewardship Code, set up by the Financial Reporting Council.
Rathbone Unit Trust Management, as an institutional investor, meets its obligations as a signatory to the Stewardship Code, while Rathbone Investment Management exercises the voting rights attached to approximately 90% of the Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 37 Corporate responsibility report continued Employees Upon completion of a qualifying period, all UK employees and their direct family members are eligible for private Our approach medical cover paid for by the Company.
All UK staff have As with all professional services firms, Rathbones greatest the opportunity to attend an annual medical examination asset is its people.
Employee relations, learning and and Rathbones also provides an independent and confidential development, performance management, remuneration and employee assistance programme offering advice on benefits and resourcing are all key objectives sitting at the employment, personal and legal concerns.
heart of Rathbones human resources HR strategy and Learning and development contribute to the continuing success of the business.
Rathbones ensures that all employees have the opportunity Employee relations to develop the skills, knowledge and behaviours to fulfil Rathbones aims to provide objective and consistent support their current roles effectively and are supported to realise to all staff, underpinned by clear policies and procedures, their potential.
ensuring that we continue to be a fair employer and provide Our investment in the development of our employees makes a supportive working environment.
good business sense and this year has seen the introduction of Work-life balance new development programmes along with the continuation Rathbones recognises the importance of an appropriate of our existing successful programmes and a focus on work-life balance both to the health and welfare of regulatory requirements in particular as a result of RDR.
employees and to the business.
Holiday entitlements are We expect high standards of performance from all employees 25 days increasing to 30 days after five years service.
and therefore take an inclusive approach to development Employees are able to buy up to five additional days of leave that means we encourage employees at all levels to focus on with the agreement of their manager.
We also provide time enhancing their skills.
off for dependants, parental leave and paternity leave and RDR Professionalism have a childcare voucher scheme in place.
We successfully obtained Statements of Professional Maternity benefits remain in excess of those required under Standing SPS for all of our employees who give advice on statutory provisions.
Career breaks of up to two years are investments.
This has been the culmination of four years also available for those with childcare responsibilities.
work to ensure that they all held appropriate qualifications, attended additional gap fill training courses and maintained Flexible working policies are offered with a high number their expertise through regular learning sessions.
Over that of successful applications, particularly from parents with period the direct cost of qualifications and gap fill was young children.
On completion of five years service, 167,000 plus the additional time away from the desk.
The employees have the opportunity to take up to three months investment has been high and we continue to support the unpaid leave once in every 10 years without any loss aims of RDR: we are committed to implementing the ongoing of service-related benefits such as pension or death in Continuing Professional Development CPD requirements service cover.
to achieve the maximum benefits for our clients, employees The uptake and effectiveness of these policies is monitored and the Company.
together with other indicators of staff satisfaction levels such We continue to run a number of development programmes at as average annual sickness rates and staff turnover.
different levels: all use a similar learn do review formula Staff welfare that we have found to be successful.
Rathbones is committed to providing a safe and healthy This means that the programmes are run over a period of environment in which its employees can work.
With the help 9 18 months and comprise modules covering topics that of external consultants our health and safety policy for the are directly relevant to the participants role.
The feedback UK offices is regularly updated to reflect current legislation suggests that participants find it helpful to review how they and best practice.
We provide a range of training courses have used the training and to learn from others in similar for those staff with health and safety responsibilities and a positions.
steering group comprising representatives from all our offices meets twice a year to share knowledge and to ensure that There have also been two new programmes established in health and safety standards are maintained.
2012 at opposite ends of the business: a graduate programme for talent new to the business and a leadership programme During 2012 we committed to the Governments Health for our senior managers.
at Work initiative, the Workplace Wellbeing Charter.
The initiative promotes the positive links between health and work and aims to help more people with health conditions to stay in or return to employment.
38 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility report continued Employees continued IT training The team responsible for this activity has grown this year in Graduate development programme response to the ever increasing development and complexity This year we created a programme to bring together recent of our IT systems.
Given the high investment in our core IT graduate level joiners and provide training to help them systems development it is vital that we assist employees to understand the business and their role within it, to enable maximise their IT literacy to achieve the greatest efficiencies them to translate exam theory into practical day to day and levels of service.
application back at the desk and to create a supportive Training opportunities group.
We now have 14 graduates taking part.
In addition to formal ongoing programmes we support Leadership development programme employees to gain appropriate qualifications and attend This year we started a leadership development programme external specialist courses.
In 2012 our investment in for some of our senior managers.
This is the first time we training was an average of 707 per head 2011: 589 have run a programme of this type and it is indicative of per head and 2.6 days 2011: 2.2 days.
The increase is a growing and increasingly complex organisation where a due to the newly established programmes, for example, continuous updating of leadership capabilities is crucial.
graduates and leadership development along with To ensure application of learning to the business the supporting executive coaching.
participants are working together on relevant corporate projects, the aim of which is to deliver enhanced service to Performance management our clients.
We are partnering with experienced business We ensure that fair and consistent practices are in place school tutors to deliver this programme.
to enable managers and employees to work together Other programmes to recognise achievements, address issues and We continue with some of our well-established and successful agree objectives which will motivate and encourage training programmes.
Now in its sixth year, the Rathbone high performance.
development programme targets a different audience each In common with most organisations we operate a year.
The 2012 group is made up of early career investment performance appraisal system, the aim of which is to support managers from across the UK.
In addition to the stated aims employees to contribute fully to the organisation and to assist of improving skills in developing new business and enhancing them to fulfil their potential.
During the year, we updated client relationships, the benefits of the internal relationships our process to include more specific competencies and key that are created though this shared experience has long performance indicators.
This has facilitated more discussion lasting advantages.
about individuals development and progression.
We continue to run the introduction to management Remuneration and benefits course which culminates in the achievement of a nationally recognised management qualification awarded by the Rathbones provides remuneration and financial nonChartered Management Institute.
The team-working for financial benefits which attract, retain, motivate and reward results programme also continues: this has been designed employees, ensuring that we remain competitive through to provide team members, who are performing well, have regular review and benchmarking.
a track record of achievement and have potential for the Resourcing future, with the skills to work effectively in a team by recognising and building on their strengths.
We attract, recruit and retain people with the right skills and experience who demonstrate high levels of professionalism Coaching and mentoring and enthusiasm which impact positively on the business.
Many of the training programmes include individual coaching or mentoring to help with applying the learning Equality and diversity to particular circumstances.
Additionally, internal and Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is external coaching is made available across the business where our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees employees are seeking further skills enhancements: this can are treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, be a valuable way of helping implementation of personal gender, marital status, age, disability, religious belief or development plans.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 39 Corporate responsibility report continued Communities Donations and fundraising During the year, the Group made total charitable donations of 206,000, representing 0.53% of Group pre-tax profits 2011: 196,000, representing 0.50% of Group pre-tax profits.
Employees are encouraged to donate to charity in a tax efficient manner through the Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In 2012, Rathbone employees made payments totalling 167,000 2011: 189,000 through this scheme, which is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The Company matched staff donations of up to 200 per month made through GAYE and in 2012 donated 118,000 2011: 108,000 to causes chosen by employees through this method.
In addition to corporate and payroll giving, for many years Rathbones has selected charities by employee ballot with funds being raised by a number of events.
For 2012 and 2013, employees voted to support the Claire House Hospice for children in the North West and The Oliver King Foundation, a Liverpool based charity which raises awareness of Sudden Arrhythmic Death Syndrome.
In 2012, 15,000 was raised for these good causes.
Lacrosse sponsorship Rathbones is the proud sponsor of both the National Schools Lacrosse Championships and Lacrosse Scotland.
40 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Governance 42 Directors 45 Directors report 49 Corporate governance report 53 Remuneration report 61 Audit committee report 63 Nomination committee report 64 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 41
