Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 51 Our culture Engaging and listening to our employees Managing, motivating Our business principles, code of conduct and core We know that when employees feel engaged and company values have helped us to create a distinctive valued the result is increased productivity and higher and supporting our people Capita culture.
Our values include: respect and retention rates.
Critical to this is good support, consistency in managing our employees, communication.
This was once again highlighted in Capita is a people business we have 52,500 delivering high quality services consistently, and our 2012 employee survey and good communication employees working across more than 350 sites giving our employees autonomy and responsibility becomes even more important as we expand, both in from a diverse range of backgrounds.
Our success over many aspects of their work.
rests on having the right people, with the right skills to deliver services to our clients.
To manage and Our employee survey is structured around our Recognising and rewarding performance support clients effectively, a number of our Groupcompany values and gives our employees the We want to attract and retain employees who add wide policies focus on our people, including those opportunity to tell us what we are doing well, value to what we do and recognising and rewarding covering: equality and diversity, health and safety in addition to identifying opportunities for performance plays a key part in this.
We reward and our code of ethical conduct.
Their feedback is used to inform what employees both financially, through competitive international presence, we ensure that we apply the we need to concentrate on in the following year.
remuneration packages and local performance same principles to all our employees, wherever they In 2012, the response rate for our employee survey schemes, and through the Capita People Awards are based.
The feedback was generally scheme which celebrates those employees who put View all our policies online positive with 71% of respondents saying that Capita our values into practice.
co. uk responsibility is a good place to work and that they are trusted to With the introduction of the new Government do their job and to make decisions, 89% feel valued pensions reforms, we began to implement and respected by their colleagues and 84% feel that auto-enrolment across the Group at the start of our business delivers a good quality service.
We will also shortly be introducing a more improvement include improving communication flexible benefits package, allowing employees to between different businesses within Capita.
select from a range of voluntary benefits which they can purchase directly from their salaries.
