Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 56 Supporting regeneration Charitable support Engaging and supporting We can help to regenerate communities.
We are We support many charities, including partnering with a major employer and also contribute to local a number of healthcare charities.
In 2011, our local communities economies by using local suppliers.
Where possible, employees chose the Alzheimers Society as our we try to create new jobs for local people.
For corporate charity partner and helped to raise Our aim is to ensure that we have a positive impact example, we are creating 375 new jobs for our 720,000 by the end of our two year partnership in on the communities in which we operate, helping to contract to run the Recruiting Partnering Project for December 2012. improve their social and economic development.
We also provide new apprenticeship places know that the needs of each community differ, so we As well as raising money, our employees volunteered for people from the communities in which we work.
engage directly with people living in these their skills and expertise and worked with the In 2012, for example, we placed 10 apprentices in our communities to ensure we support them in ways Alzheimers Society to increase awareness and Capita insurance services business in Portsmouth and that make a lasting and valuable difference.
understanding of dementia and the needs of sufferers.
committed to create 40 apprenticeship places for local At the start of 2013, our employees selected our new Lambeth residents as part of our strategic partnership corporate charity partner, Cancer Research UK.
We create tangible benefits to citizens when we improve the services of our public sector clients: the money our clients save can be reinvested in frontline public services.
Community investment We go further than our contractual obligations.
We identify and invest in local projects that relate to our core business and use our employees skills.
We work collaboratively with our clients, local businesses and third sector organisations on our community programmes, building relationships and ensuring that we maximise our impact.
Our community investment programmes aim to encourage a more inclusive and supportive society.
We focus our programmes around the key concerns and impacts in the markets in which we operate and in the wider community.
We engage and encourage our employees to get involved in our programmes, either through our volunteering scheme, donating their time, skills and expertise, or by supporting our charity initiatives.
