ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 18 OUR BUSINESS AND OUR STRATEGY The economic environment We have noted before that when economies are In the United States, GDP growth was slightly the outline of a banking union, undertaking to emerging from recessions rooted in high levels stronger at 2.2% compared with 1.8% in 2011. purchase sovereign debt to push down yields of debt and stresses in the financial system, Uncertainty about how leaders might resolve and making progress on fiscal rules, European growth is slower than in the typical recovery.
immediate and longer-term fiscal challenges leaders and the European Central Bank took That was the experience of our major markets weighed on growth during much of the year.
some steps that are necessary if an economic again in 2012. and monetary union is to be sustained.
At the There was encouraging news on the job market, end of the year the probability that some of the In the UK, growth weakened.
Total economic where unemployment had fallen to 7.8% in worse outcomes would be realised had fallen activity, as measured by gross domestic December, and the housing market, where although they had not disappeared.
Despite product GDP, was flat compared with growth prices and construction activity started to rise.
this progress, euro zone GDP contracted and of 0.9% in 2011.
At the start of the year, unemployment had risen to almost 12% by expectations had been more positive, the However, concerned that the recovery remained December.
consensus forecast for growth having been too slow to return unemployment to rates Unemployment rates, %, December 0.5%.
Yet the year ended with the economy consistent with its mandate to foster maximum contracting.
employment, the Federal Open Market 16 Committee changed policy in two ways.
In More positively, unemployment fell, from around September it agreed to increase monetary 14 8.3% at the turn of the year to 7.7% towards its accommodation by purchasing mortgage- 12 end.
That helped to offset the continuing backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per 10 squeeze on the spending power of earnings as month.
Second, it announced in December it wages grew by less than inflation.
anticipates the Fed Funds rate remaining 8 exceptionally low as long as the unemployment 6 Housing market activity remained subdued.
rate is above 6.5%, inflation one to two years Prices were broadly stable, some indices ahead is expected to be no more than 2.5% 4 showing a rise and others a fall.
Any price and inflation expectations are well anchored.
2 increases seem to have been concentrated in and around London.
Irelands GDP grew by 1.3% in the four quarters 0 UK US Republic to Q3 2012 as the economy continued its slow of Ireland The Bank of England continued its ultra-loose recovery from deep recession.
The export 2011 2012 monetary policy stance.
Although inflation sector continued to benefit from the boost to Sources: Datastream and Office for National Statistics remained above target, the Bank kept interest competitiveness delivered by falling real wages.
In fact, its greater concern was that the weak economy would cause inflation to For Ireland, gross national product GNP is a Real GDP growth rates, % be too low and in both February and July it better measure of people's material well-being.
2.5 increased its asset purchase programme by It reflects the income residents receive rather 50 billion taking the total value of assets than the value of the incomes generated in the 2.0 purchased to 375 billion.
The Governments country, an important distinction where there is decision to transfer the coupon payments from a large foreign-owned sector that remits profits 1.5 the Asset Purchase Facility to HM Treasury, overseas.
which will use these proceeds to reduce the 1.0 stock of Government debt, has a similar effect Unemployment in Ireland averaged more than to further quantitative easing.
At the end of the year house prices were 0.5 4.5% lower than 12 months earlier and around In July, the Bank of England and HM Treasury 50% below their peak.
The rate of decline was 0 launched the Funding for Lending Scheme slower than at any time since 2008 and there -0.5 FLS.
It is designed to boost lending to were tentative signs that prices were stabilising.
UK US Republic households and non-financial firms.
Early of Ireland indications from the Banks Credit Conditions Entering 2012, the greatest economic concern 2011 2012 Survey suggested that the supply of credit had was how problems related to sovereign debt in Sources: Datastream Note: Ireland growth rates are four quarters to Q3 2012 over four expanded towards the end of the year.
the euro zone would be managed.
By agreeing quarters to Q3 2011 and four quarters to Q3 2011 over four quarters to Q3 2010 18
