Sustainability Contents Governance 34 Stakeholder engagement 34 Sustainability policy development 34 Sustainable Business Principles 35 33 ARSFS12 SUSTAINABILITY AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 08:10 Page 2 Sustainability We want to build a good company and a good bank.
Sustainability is central to achieving this goal and to making sure that the misconduct of the past is not repeated.
Governance The GSC took part in three stakeholder assessment of a company's commitment, Sustainability at RBS is built on a robust sessions in 2012 on our themes of: capacity and track record in managing ESE governance framework that provides clarity Citizenship and environment: risks.
We assessed our clients and transactions around the development of our strategic Supporting enterprise: and against the relevant ESE risk criteria and found sustainability objectives.
The Group Sustainability Employee engagement.
that our risk management systems are in good Committee GSC is a Group Board Committee, health.
A web-based training tool on our ESE chaired by our Senior Independent Director, WWF, the Tax Justice Network, Transparency policies was launched in 2012.
It consists of independent International, Big Issue Invest, the was compulsory for all staff working in the non-executive directors and all key business Confederation of British Industry and Unite relevant divisions and can also be accessed by areas are represented at Committee meetings are just a few of the groups that attended.
all RBS Group staff to ensure they understand and the Group Chairman is also invited to These sessions are an open forum for the Groups ESE policies.
The GSC has overseen some organisations to present the issues they progressive developments within the company.
most care about to the senior people from Our policy making also incorporates a number In 2012, the GSC focused on reviewing the RBS who sit on the GSC.
We do not set the of voluntary global standards.
We are Groups overall sustainability strategy, values agenda.
Others do that and we go out of our members of the Equator Principles and follow and policies and aligning the Groups way to involve people who are highly and its environmental and social impact approach to ethical, social and environmental constructively critical of RBS.
We will hold more assessment criteria in our Project Finance issues.
In 2013, the scope will widen to include of these sessions as a clear illustration of our lending.
We are also members of the UN sustainability and reputational issues related to commitment to our openness to stakeholders.
Global Compact UNGC which brings customer and citizenship activities: oversight of companies together with UN agencies, labour the delivery of the Group purpose, vision and Sustainability policy development organisations and civil society to support values cultural and behavioural change: and Addressing risks arising from Environmental, human rights, labour rights, the environment oversight of the sustainability aspects of the Social and Ethical ESE issues is an integral and anti-corruption.
We adhere to the ten people agenda.
The renewed GSC will also be part of meeting our commitment to becoming UNGC Principles and report against these responsible for overseeing and challenging a more responsible business.
Over the last two each year.
how management is addressing sustainability years we have updated and improved our and reputational issues relating to all policy framework.
We increased the A full sustainability update will be provided stakeholder groups.
For more information on transparency and disclosure of our business in our 2012 Sustainability Report, published the GSC or sustainability visit risk appetite and developed ESE policies for in April 2013. rbs.
four sensitive sectors: defence, oil and gas, mining and metals, and forestry.
These policies Stakeholder engagement have been fully implemented and follow a clear Balancing the needs of stakeholders means governance structure and decision making understanding the views of all those who have process involving divisional Reputational Risk an interest in our business.
As an international forums throughout the business.
New policies company we have many stakeholders and for the Power Generation and Gambling we engage with them in a variety of ways.
sectors are currently being implemented, with These discussions inform decision making further sector-specific policies also being across the Group.
ESE reviews involve an 34 RBS GROUP 2012 Sustainable Business Principles Our Sustainable Business Principles set out sixteen separate commitments that underline our commitment to operating responsibly.
They are a recognition that balancing the needs of all our stakeholders is the best way to deliver sustainable commercial success.
The following table sets out some of the work we are doing to meet those commitments: Principles Measure of progress in 2012 Secure Maintaining our financial health whilst meeting our Reportable major injuries decreased by 57% responsibilities to customers, employees and suppliers 22% reduction in fraud losses in 2012 against a corresponding 1% increase Keeping our customers and employees data and in fraud cases, compared with 2011 assets safe Eight million customers have downloaded our free online anti-fraud software Protecting against fraud and corruption Over 95% of employees have received Anti-Money Laundering training Supportive Meeting our customers needs 3,700 UK business customers facing financial difficulty were returned to Supporting sustainable and inclusive economic growth mainstream banking Helping customers in financial difficulty 3 million has been made available to organisations that help young people and women looking to start their own business 90% UK business customer Relationship Managers have been accredited to help provide customers with further business expertise We lent 2.7 billion to over 20,000 first time buyers in the UK Open Consulting with and listening to our stakeholders Our Group Sustainability Committee met with 14 different advocacy Showing transparency in the way we run our business groups to discuss the issues that matter most to them Publicly communicating our efforts to be responsible We continue to be open and transparent in our reporting.
The Our financing of and sustainable the energy sector reports have provided industry-leading analysis since 2009 The leadership of RBS has been pro-active in engaging with the media and our stakeholders to explain the role of RBS in society and how we are changing We have increased the number of visitors to the rbs.
com website by 50% A Responsible Citizen Working within both the letter and spirit of legislation We are longstanding members and contributors to the development of the and abiding by relevant codes of practice and Equator Principles and UN Global Compact voluntary standards We supported over 41,000 members of staff to take time off to support the Supporting the communities we work in communities in which we live and work Respecting human rights throughout our sphere We have looked at ESE risk issues across a range of sectors and developed of influence ESE appetite position staements for six of the more sensitive sectors Upholding environmental responsibility within the Bank, Our total scope 1 emissions were 66,586 and scope 2 emissions were 497,762 and through our customers and suppliers tonnes COe from Q4 2011 to Q3 2012, a decrease of 6% and 15% respectively compared with 2011 A Good Employer Providing our people with the tools and support to do In 2012, RBS was included in the Working Families top 10 Employers for their jobs effectively and develop their skills quality of work-life balance Valuing and promoting diversity in all areas of We continue to promote diversity through internal employee networks recruitment and employment and the number of female executives and senior managers have both Rewarding our people fairly for their work increased by 1% We have reformed our remuneration policies to reflect a more appropriate approach to pay.
Since 2009, the investment banking bonus pool has reduced by 70% 35 Business review Contents Presentation of information 37 Forward-looking statements 39 Description of business 40 Competition 42 Risk factors 43 Key financials 44 Summary consolidated income statement 45 Results summary 46 Analysis of results 50 Divisional performance 64 Consolidated balance sheet 97 Cash flow 100 Capital resources 101 Reconciliations of managed to statutory income statements 102 Analysis of balance sheet pre and post disposal groups 105 Risk and balance sheet management 107 36 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 37 RBS GROUP 2012 Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, the term International Financial Reporting Standards company or RBSG means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the European RBS, RBS Group or the Group means the company and its Union IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements of the Group subsidiaries, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee The company publishes its financial statements in pounds sterling or of the IASB as adopted by the European Union together IFRS.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions and also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
thousands of millions of pounds sterling, respectively, and references to pence represent pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. dollars or $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by the Group, the abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands of millions Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander together, the of dollars, respectively, and references to cents represent cents in the Consortium Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding US.
The abbreviation represents the euro, the European single N. V. currency, and the abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, respectively.
On 1 April 2010, the businesses acquired by the Dutch State were transferred to ABN AMRO Group N. V. itself owned by the Dutch State.
In Certain information in this report is presented separately for domestic and connection with the transfer ABN AMRO Holding N. V. was renamed RBS foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily consist of the UK domestic Holdings N. V. and its banking subsidiary was renamed The Royal Bank transactions of the Group.
Foreign activities comprise the Group's of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V.. Certain assets of RBS N. V. continue to be transactions conducted through those offices in the UK specifically shared by the Consortium Members.
organised to service international banking transactions and transactions conducted through offices outside the UK.
In October 2011, the Group completed the transfer of a substantial part of the UK activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank pursuant to Part VII of The geographic analysis in the Business Review, including the average the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Substantially all of the balance sheet and interest rates, changes in net interest income and Netherlands and EMEA businesses were transferred in September 2012. average interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have Further transfers are expected to take place during 2013 but are subject been compiled on the basis of location of office - UK and overseas.
to certain authorisations including regulatory approval where necessary.
Management believes that this presentation provides more useful The Group now anticipates that the transfers in China will be completed information on the Group's yields, spreads and margins of the Group's at a later date.
activities than would be provided by presentation on the basis of the domestic and foreign activities analysis used elsewhere in this report as it more closely reflects the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this context includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK which service international banking transactions.
The results, assets and liabilities of individual business units are classified as trading or non-trading based on their predominant activity.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting misclassification is not material.
37 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 38 Presentation of information continued Managed results Divisional return on equity ratios The financial information on a managed basis, prepared using the Notional divisional equity is calculated as a percentage of the monthly Groups accounting policies, shows the underlying performance of the average of divisional risk-weighted assets, adjusted for capital Group which excludes certain one-off and other items.
In 2012, 10% was used for both the Retail & Commercial provided in this form to give a better understanding of the results of the divisions 2011 - 9% and Markets division Global Banking & Markets, Groups operations.
Consistent with the manner in which the Group is 2011 - 10%.
managed, Group operating profit on a managed basis excludes: Fair value of own debt and derivative liabilities x own credit adjustments: The Group had previously excluded changes in the fair value of own debt FVOD in presenting the underlying performance of the Group on a x Asset Protection Scheme: managed basis given it is a volatile non-cash item.
To better align our managed view of performance, movements in the fair value of own x Payment Protection Insurance PPI costs: derivative liabilities, previously incorporated within Markets operating performance, are now combined with movements in FVOD in a single x Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs: measure, Own Credit Adjustments.
As a result, Group and Markets operating results on a managed basis have been adjusted to reflect this x regulatory fines: change which does not affect profit loss before and after tax.
x sovereign debt impairment: Statutory results The statutory results of the Group include the one-off and other items in x interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale the appropriate captions in the income statement.
sovereign debt: Reconciliations between managed and statutory results are detailed on x amortisation of purchased intangible assets: pages 102 to 104. x integration and restructuring costs: Disposal groups Since 2011, the assets and liabilities relating to the RBS England and x gain on redemption of own debt: Wales and NatWest Scotland branch-based businesses, along with certain SME and corporate activities across the UK UK branch-based x strategic disposals: businesses, were classified within Disposal groups.
Santander's withdrawal from the sale in October 2012 has led the Group to conclude x bank levy: that a sale within 12 months is unlikely: accordingly the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 does not classify the assets and liabilities of the UK x bonus tax: branch-based businesses within Disposal groups.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations does not permit x write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets: and restatement on reclassification.
x RFS Holdings minority interest RFS MI Discontinued operations The Group sold the first tranche 34.7% of the share capital of Direct and includes the results of Direct Line Group on a managed basis, which Line Insurance Group plc DLG in October 2012 via an Initial Public are included in discontinued operations in the statutory results.
Offering IPO, consistent with the plan to cede control by the end of 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5, DLG has been recognised as a Divisional reorganisation and Group reporting changes discontinued operation with consequent changes to the presentation of Comparative data have been restated to reflect the divisional comparative information.
The assets and liabilities relating to DLG are reorganisation see page 40 and certain Group reporting changes see included in Disposal groups as at 31 December 2012. below during 2012.
Share consolidation Revised allocation of Group Treasury costs Following approval at the Groups Annual General Meeting on 30 May The Group revised its allocation of funding and liquidity costs and capital.
2012, the sub-division and consolidation of the Groups ordinary shares The new methodology is designed to ensure that the allocated costs on a one-for-ten basis took effect on 6 June 2012.
Consequently, prior more fully reflect the funding used by each division.
year disclosures relating to or affected by numbers of ordinary shares or share price have been restated.
Glossary A glossary of terms is provided on pages 528 to 535.
38 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 39 RBS GROUP 2012 Forward-looking statements Certain sections in this document contain forward-looking statements as investigations relating to the setting of LIBOR and other interest rates: that term is defined in the United States Private Securities Litigation costs or exposures borne by the Group arising out of the origination or Reform Act of 1995, such as statements that include the words expect, sale of mortgages or mortgage-backed securities in the US: the extent of estimate, project, anticipate, believes, should, intend, plan, could, future write-downs and impairment charges caused by depressed asset probability, risk, Value-at-Risk VaR, target, goal, objective, will, valuations: the value and effectiveness of any credit protection purchased endeavour, outlook, optimistic, prospects and similar expressions or by the Group: unanticipated turbulence in interest rates, yield curves, variations on such expressions.
foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads, bond prices, commodity prices, equity prices and basis, volatility and correlation risks: changes in In particular, this document includes forward-looking statements relating, the credit ratings of the Group: ineffective management of capital or but not limited to: the Groups restructuring plans, divestments, changes to capital adequacy or liquidity requirements: changes to the capitalisation, portfolios, net interest margin, capital ratios, liquidity, risk valuation of financial instruments recorded at fair value: competition and weighted assets RWAs, return on equity ROE, profitability, consolidation in the banking sector: the ability of the Group to attract or cost:income ratios, leverage and loan:deposit ratios, funding and risk retain senior management or other key employees: regulatory or legal profile: discretionary coupon and dividend payments: certain ring-fencing changes including those requiring any restructuring of the Groups proposals: sustainability targets: regulatory investigations: the Groups operations in the UK, the US and other countries in which the Group future financial performance: the level and extent of future impairments operates or a change in UK Government policy: changes to regulatory and write-downs, including sovereign debt impairments: and the Groups requirements relating to capital and liquidity: changes to the monetary potential exposures to various types of political and market risks, such as and interest rate policies of central banks and other governmental and interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and commodity and equity regulatory bodies: changes in UK and foreign laws, regulations, price risk.
These statements are based on current plans, estimates and accounting standards and taxes, including changes in regulatory capital projections, and are subject to inherent risks, uncertainties and other regulations and liquidity requirements: the implementation of factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the future recommendations made by the Independent Commission on Banking and results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For their potential implications and equivalent EU legislation: impairments of example, certain market risk disclosures are dependent on choices about goodwill: pension fund shortfalls: general operational risks: HM Treasury key model characteristics and assumptions and are subject to various exercising influence over the operations of the Group: insurance claims: limitations.
By their nature, certain of the market risk disclosures are only reputational risk: the ability to access the contingent capital arrangements estimates and, as a result, actual future gains and losses could differ with HM Treasury: the conversion of the B Shares in accordance with materially from those that have been estimated.
their terms: limitations on, or additional requirements imposed on, the Groups activities as a result of HM Treasurys investment in the Group: Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from and the success of the Group in managing the risks involved in the those estimated by the forward-looking statements contained in this foregoing.
document include, but are not limited to: global economic and financial market conditions and other geopolitical risks, and their impact on the The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as financial industry in general and on the Group in particular: the ability to of the date of this announcement, and the Group does not undertake to implement strategic plans on a timely basis, or at all, including the update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances disposal of certain Non-Core assets and of certain assets and businesses after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
required as part of the State Aid restructuring plan: organisational restructuring in response to legislative and regulatory proposals in the The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do United Kingdom UK, European Union EU and United States US : the not constitute a public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer to ability to access sufficient sources of capital, liquidity and funding when sell or solicitation of any offer to buy any securities or financial required: deteriorations in borrower and counterparty credit quality: instruments or any advice or recommendation with respect to such litigation, government and regulatory investigations including securities or other financial instruments.
39 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 40 Business review Description of business x The domestic small and mid-size corporates previously served by Introduction GTS are now managed within RBS's domestic corporate banking The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company of a large businesses in the UK, Ireland Ulster Bank and the US US Retail & global banking and financial services group.
the Group operates in the United Kingdom, the United States and internationally through its principal subsidiaries, the Royal Bank and Our wholesale business retains its international footprint ensuring that it NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest are major UK clearing can serve our customers' needs globally.
We believe that, despite current banks.
In the United States, the Group's subsidiary RBS Citizens is a challenges to the sector, wholesale banking services can play a central large commercial banking organisation.
Globally, the Group has a role in supporting cross border trade and capital flows, financing diversified customer base and provides a wide range of products and requirements and risk management and we remain committed to this services to personal, commercial and large corporate and institutional business.
The Groups activities are organised on a divisional basis as follows: Following the placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, HM Treasury owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and related share capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers through a further 25.5 billion of new capital to HM Treasury.
This new capital took number of channels including: the RBS and NatWest network of the form of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general branches and ATMs in the United Kingdom, telephony, online and meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary mobile.
UK Retail remains committed to delivering Helpful and shares and qualify as Core Tier 1 capital.
Following the issuance of the B Sustainable banking and to the commitments set out in its Customer shares, HM Treasury's holding of ordinary shares of the company Charter - the results of which are externally assessed and published remained at 70.3% although its economic interest rose to 84.4%.
At 31 December 2012, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary UK Corporate is a leading provider of banking, finance and risk shares was 65.3% and its economic interest was 81.1%.
management services to the corporate and SME sector in the United Kingdom.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial The Group had total assets of 1,312.3 billion and owners' equity of services through a nationwide network of relationship managers, and also 68.1 billion at 31 December 2012.
The Group's risk asset ratios at 31 through telephone and internet channels.
The product range includes December 2012, were a Total capital ratio of 14.5%, a Core Tier 1 capital asset finance through the Lombard brand.
ratio of 10.3% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.4%.
Wealth provides private banking and investment services in the UK Organisational structure and business overview through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company, offshore banking through Organisational change RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank, and In January 2012, the Group announced changes to its wholesale banking international private banking through Coutts & Co Ltd. operations in light of a changed market and regulatory environment.
The changes saw the reorganisation of the Groups wholesale businesses into International Banking serves the worlds largest companies with a leading Markets and International Banking and the exit from and downsizing of client proposition focused on financing, transaction services and risk selected activities.
The changes ensure the wholesale businesses management.
International Banking serves as the delivery channel for continue to deliver against the Groups strategy.
Markets products to corporate clients and serves international subsidiaries of both International Banking and clients from UK Corporate, The changes include an exit from cash equities, corporate brokering, Ulster Bank and US Retail & Commercial through its international equity capital markets and mergers and acquisitions advisory businesses.
Significant reductions in balance sheet, funding requirements and cost base in the remaining wholesale businesses will be implemented.
Ulster Bank is a leading retail and commercial bank in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
It provides a comprehensive range of Global Banking & Markets GBM and Global Transaction Services GTS financial services through both its Retail Banking division, which provides divisions have been reorganised as follows: loan and deposit products through a network of branches and direct channels, and its Corporate Banking division, which provides services to x The Markets business maintains its focus on fixed income, with businesses and corporate customers.
strong positions in debt capital raising, securitisation, risk management, foreign exchange and rates.
It will serve the corporate US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through the and institutional clients of all Group businesses.
Citizens and Charter One brands.
US Retail & Commercial is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities through its branch network in 12 x GBM's corporate banking business has been combined with the states in the United States and through non-branch offices in other international businesses of the GTS arm into a new International states.
Banking unit and provides clients with a 'one-stop shop' access to the Groups debt financing, risk management and payments The divisions discussed above are collectively referred to as Retail & services.
This international corporate business will be self-funded Commercial.
through its stable corporate deposit base.
40 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 41 RBS GROUP 2012 Markets is a leading origination, sales and trading business across debt Business divestments finance, fixed income, currencies and investor products.
The division To comply with the European Commission State aid requirements the offers a unified service to the Groups corporate and institutional clients.
Group agreed a series of restructuring measures to be implemented over The Markets sales and research teams build strong ongoing client a four year period from December 2009.
These measures supplement partnerships, provide market perspective and access, and work with the the Strategic Plan previously announced by the Group.
These include the divisions trading and structuring teams to meet the clients objectives divestment of Direct Line Insurance Group plc, the sale of 80.01% of the across financing, risk management, investment, securitisation and Groups Global Merchant Services business completed in 2010 and the liquidity.
sale of substantially all of the RBS Sempra Commodities joint venture business largely completed in 2010, as well as the divestment of the Direct Line Group is a retail general insurer with leading market positions RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest in the United Kingdom, a strong presence in the direct motor channel in branches in Scotland, along with the direct SME customers across the Italy and Germany and a focused position in UK SME commercial UK.
The Group operates under highly recognised brands such as Direct Line and Churchill and is comprised of five primary segments: In 2010, the Group reached agreement with Santander UK plc motor, home, rescue and other personal lines, commercial and Santander on the sale of certain UK branch-based businesses broadly international.
comprising the RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branch-based business in Scotland, along with certain SME In the UK, Direct Line Group utilises a multi-brand, multi-product and and corporate activities across the UK.
However, in October 2012, the multi-distribution channel business model that covers most major Group announced that it had received notification of Santanders decision customer segments for personal lines general insurance.
The Group also to pull out of its agreed purchase of these businesses.
Santander's has a focused presence in the commercial market.
The Group occupies decision followed extensive work by both parties to separate the leading market positions in terms of in-force policies and has the most businesses into a largely standalone form and to prepare the businesses, highly recognised brands in the UK for personal motor and home customers and staff for transfer.
RBS is continuing to work to fulfil its insurance including Direct Line and Churchill.
Other primary Direct Line obligations to divest these businesses.
Group brands include Privilege and Green Flag: NIG, a provider of insurance solutions to UK SMEs and Direct Line For Business DL4B, Also in October 2012, the Group sold via an initial public offering 520.8 the Groups direct commercial brand.
The Group is also a major provider million ordinary shares in Direct Line Insurance Group plc, representing of insurance through a number of strategic partnerships.
In Italy and 34.7% of the total issued share capital.
This is consistent with the Germany the Group operates under the Direct Line brand.
It is planned European Commissions requirement to cede control by the end of 2013 for control of DLG to be ceded by the end of 2013. and complete full divestment from the Group by the end of 2014.
Central Functions comprises Group and corporate functions, such as Recent developments treasury, finance, risk management, legal, communications and human Liability Management Exercise resources.
The Centre manages the Group's capital resources and In January 2013, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc completed a cash Group-wide regulatory projects and provides services to the operating tender offer for approximately 2 billion principal amount of certain US divisions.
Dollar, Euro, Sterling, Swiss Franc and Singapore Dollar denominated senior unsecured securities.
Non-Core division manages separately assets that the Group intends to run off or dispose of.
The division contains a range of businesses and Markets & International Banking Executive changes asset portfolios primarily from the legacy GBM businesses, higher risk On 6 February 2013, the Group announced that John Hourican, Chief profile asset portfolios including excess risk concentrations, and other Executive, Markets & International Banking, will leave the Group once he illiquid portfolios.
It also includes a number of other portfolios and has completed a handover of his responsibilities.
With effect from 1 businesses including regional markets businesses that the Group has March 2013, Suneel Kamlani and Peter Nielsen will be co-heads of the concluded are no longer strategic.
Markets division and John Owen will continue to lead the International Banking division and will all report directly to the Group Chief Executive.
Business Services supports the customer-facing businesses and provides operational technology, customer support in telephony, account management, lending and money transmission, global purchasing, property and other services.
Business Services drives efficiencies and supports income growth across multiple brands and channels by using a single, scalable platform and common processes wherever possible.
It also leverages the Group's purchasing power and is the Group's centre of excellence for managing large-scale and complex change.
For reporting purposes, Business Services costs are allocated to the divisions above.
It is not deemed a reportable segment.
41 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 42 Business review continued Competition In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International The Group faces strong competition in all the markets it serves.
Banks competes with other UK and international banks to offer offshore banking balance sheets have strengthened whilst loan demand remains subdued services.
Coutts and Adam & Company compete as private banks with as many customers continue to delever and the UK economy has UK clearing and private banks, and with international private banks.
Competition for retail deposits remains strong as Competition in wealth management remains strong as banks maintain institutions continue to target strong and diverse funding platforms for their focus on competing for affluent and high net worth customers.
Direct Line Group competes in personal lines insurance and, to a more Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK and limited extent, in commercial insurance.
There is strong competition from abroad is from UK banks and from large foreign universal banks that offer a range of insurance companies which now operate telephone and combined investment and commercial banking capabilities.
In addition, internet direct sales businesses.
Competition in the UK motor market the Groups Markets division faces strong competition from dedicated remains intense, and price comparison internet sites now play a major investment banks.
In asset finance, the Group competes with banks and role in the marketplace.
These sites have extended their scope to home specialist asset finance providers, both captive and non-captive.
In insurance and other lines.
Direct Line Group also competes with local European and Asian corporate and institutional banking markets the insurance companies in the direct motor insurance markets in Italy and Group competes with the large domestic banks active in these markets Germany.
and with the major international banks.
In Ireland, Ulster Bank competes in retail and commercial banking with In the small business banking market, the Group competes with other UK the major Irish banks and building societies, and with other UK and clearing banks, specialist finance providers and building societies.
international banks and building societies active in the market.
The challenging conditions in the Irish economy persist and many of the In the personal banking segment, the Group competes with UK clearing domestic Irish banks have required State support and are engaged in banks and building societies, major retailers and life assurance significant restructuring actions.
In the mortgage market, the Group competes with UK clearing banks and building societies.
The ambitions of non-traditional In the United States, RBS Citizens competes in the New England, Midplayers in the UK market remain strong, with new entrants active and Atlantic and Mid-West retail and mid-corporate banking markets with local potentially seeking to build their platforms by acquiring businesses made and regional banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also available through restructuring of incumbents.
The Group distributes life competes in the US in large corporate lending and specialised finance assurance products to banking customers in competition with markets, and in fixed-income trading and sales.
Competition is principally independent advisors and life assurance companies.
with the large US commercial and investment banks and international banks active in the US.
The economic recovery in the US is proving In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card issuers are weaker than expected and loan demand is weak in Citizens markets.
active in addition to the UK banks.
In addition to physical distribution channels, providers compete through direct marketing activity and the internet.
42 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 43 RBS GROUP 2012 Risk factors equity shares and other securities and acquisitions of ordinary Set out below is a summary of certain risks which could adversely affect shares by the UK Government including through conversions of the Group: it should be read in conjunction with the Risk and balance other securities or further purchases of shares may result in the sheet management section of the Business review pages 107 to 293. delisting of the Group from the Official List.
This summary should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
A fuller description of x The Group or any of its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of these and other risk factors is included on pages 503 to 515. full nationalisation or other resolution procedures and various actions could be taken by or on behalf of the UK Government, x The Groups businesses, earnings and financial condition have been including actions in relation to any securities issued, new or existing and will continue to be negatively affected by global economic contractual arrangements and transfers of part or all of the Groups conditions, the instability in the global financial markets and businesses.
increased competition and political risks including proposed referenda on Scottish independence and UK membership of the EU.
x The Group is subject to substantial regulation and oversight, and Together with a perceived increased risk of default on the sovereign any significant regulatory or legal developments could have an debt of certain European countries and unprecedented stresses on adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its the financial system within the Eurozone, these factors have results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, the Group is, resulted in significant changes in market conditions including interest and may be, subject to litigation and regulatory investigations that rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and other market may impact its business, results of operations and financial condition.
factors and consequent changes in asset valuations.
x The Groups ability to implement its Strategic Plan depends on the x The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the Groups success of its efforts to refocus on its core strengths and its balance counterparties or borrowers and depressed asset valuations sheet reduction programme.
As part of the Groups Strategic Plan resulting from poor market conditions have adversely affected and and implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan agreed with could continue to adversely affect the Group.
the European Commission and HM Treasury, the Group is undertaking an extensive restructuring which may adversely affect x The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its funding the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition commitments depends on the Groups ability to access sources of and give rise to increased operational risk.
The inability to access liquidity and funding due to market conditions or otherwise could adversely affect the Groups x The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which financial condition.
Furthermore, the Groups borrowing costs and its may include members of the Group Board, or other key employees, access to the debt capital markets and other sources of liquidity and it may suffer if it does not maintain good employee relations.
depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit ratings.
x Operational and reputational risks are inherent in the Groups x The Group is subject to a number of regulatory initiatives which may businesses.
adversely affect its business, including the UK Governments implementation of the final recommendations of the Independent x The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is Commission on Bankings final report on competition and possible determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, structural reforms in the UK banking industry, the US Federal judgements and estimates that may change over time or may Reserves proposal for applying US capital, liquidity and enhanced ultimately not turn out to be accurate.
prudential standards to certain of the Groups US operations.
x The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks x The Groups business performance, financial condition and capital involving claims on insured events.
and liquidity ratios could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital adequacy x Any significant developments in regulatory or tax legislation could and liquidity requirements, including those arising out of Basel III have an effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its implementation globally or by European or UK authorities, or if the results of operations and financial condition, and the recoverability of Group is unable to issue Contingent B Shares to HM Treasury under certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group is subject to certain circumstances.
x As a result of the UK Governments majority shareholding in the x The Group may be required to make contributions to its pension Group it can, and in the future may decide to, exercise a significant schemes and government compensation schemes, either of which degree of influence over the Group including on dividend policy, may have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations, modifying or cancelling contracts or limiting the Groups operations.
cash flow and financial condition.
The offer or sale by the UK Government of all or a portion of its shareholding in the company could affect the market price of the 43 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 44 Business review continued Key financials Managed Statutory 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 for the year ended 31 December m m m m m m Total income 1 25,787 27,709 32,594 17,941 24,651 26,622 Operating profit before impairment losses 2 8,741 9,263 11,101 114 7,517 9,081 Operating loss before tax 5,165 1,190 154 5,165 1,190 154 Loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders 5,971 1,997 1,125 5,971 1,997 1,125 Cost:income ratio 3 63% 63% 60% 99% 70% 66% Basic loss per ordinary and B share from continuing operations pence 4 53.7p 21.3p 2.9p 53.7p 21.3p 2.9p Adjusted earnings loss per ordinary and B share from continuing operations pence 4,5 6.3p 0.8p 6.1p Managed and Statutory 2012 2011 2010 at 31 December m m m Funded balance sheet 6 870,392 977,249 1,026,499 Total assets 1,312,295 1,506,867 1,453,576 Loans and advances to customers 500,135 515,606 555,260 Deposits 622,684 611,759 609,483 Owners' equity 68,130 74,819 75,132 Risk asset ratios - Core Tier 1 10.3% 10.6% 10.7% - Tier 1 12.4% 13.0% 12.9% - Total 14.5% 13.8% 14.0% Notes: 1 Total income on a managed basis excludes own credit adjustments, Asset Protection Scheme, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals and RFS MI.
In the statutory consolidated income statement, these items are included in total income.
Total income on a managed basis includes Direct Line Group on a managed basis, which is included in discontinued operations in the statutory results.
2 Operating profit on a managed basis excludes own credit adjustments, Asset Protection Scheme, PPI costs, Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs, regulatory fines, sovereign debt impairment, interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI.
Operating profit on a managed basis includes the results of Direct Line Group on a managed basis which are included in discontinued operations in the statutory results.
3 Cost:income ratio on a managed basis represents operating expenses excluding PPI costs, Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs, regulatory fines, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI, and includes Direct Line Group on a managed basis which is included in discontinued operations in the statutory results, expressed as a percentage of total income as defined in 1 above and after netting insurance claims against income.
On a statutory basis, cost:income ratio represents operating expenses expressed as a percentage of total income.
4 Prior year data have been adjusted for the sub-division and one-for-ten consolidation of ordinary shares, which took effect in June 2012.
5 Adjusted earnings loss per ordinary and B share is based on earnings from continuing operations adjusted for own credit adjustments, Asset Protection Scheme, PPI costs, Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs, regulatory fines, sovereign debt impairment, interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bank levy, bonus tax and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
6 Funded balance sheet represents total assets less derivatives.
Overview of results The results of RFS Holdings B. V. the entity that acquired ABN AMRO, The financial information on a managed basis, prepared using the are fully consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The interests of Groups accounting policies, shows the underlying performance of the the State of the Netherlands and Santander in RFS Holdings are included Group which excludes certain one-off and other items.
This information is in non-controlling interests.
Legal separation of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. provided to give a better understanding of the results of the Groups took place on 1 April 2010.
As a result, RBS presents the interests of the operations.
Consortium Members in ABN AMRO as discontinued operations.
44 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 45 RBS GROUP 2012 Summary consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 In the income statement set out below, own credit adjustments, Asset Protection Scheme, PPI costs, Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs, regulatory fines, sovereign debt impairment, interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS Holdings minority interest are shown separately.
In the statutory consolidated income statement on page 353, these items are included in the appropriate captions.
The results of Direct Line Group on a managed basis, which are included in discontinued operations in the statutory results, are included in the appropriate captions on a managed basis.
Managed Statutory 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m m Net interest income 11,695 12,689 14,200 11,402 12,303 13,782 Fees and commissions receivable 5,715 6,384 8,194 5,709 6,379 8,193 Fees and commissions payable 1,269 1,460 2,211 834 962 1,892 Other non-interest income 5,928 5,840 7,283 1,664 6,931 6,425 Insurance net premium income 3,718 4,256 5,128 114 Non-interest income 14,092 15,020 18,394 6,539 12,348 12,840 Total income 25,787 27,709 32,594 17,941 24,651 26,622 Operating expenses 14,619 15,478 16,710 17,827 17,134 17,456 Profit before insurance net claims and impairment losses 11,168 12,231 15,884 114 7,517 9,166 Insurance net claims 2,427 2,968 4,783 85 Operating profit before impairment losses 8,741 9,263 11,101 114 7,517 9,081 Impairment losses 5,279 7,439 9,256 5,279 8,707 9,235 Operating profit loss 3,462 1,824 1,845 5,165 1,190 154 Own credit adjustments 4,649 1,914 242 Asset Protection Scheme 44 906 1,550 Payment Protection Insurance costs 1,110 850 Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs 700 Regulatory fines 381 Sovereign debt impairment 1,099 Interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt 169 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 178 222 369 Integration and restructuring costs 1,550 1,064 1,032 Gain on redemption of own debt 454 255 553 Strategic disposals 113 104 171 Bank levy 175 300 Bonus tax 27 99 Write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets 518 11 10 RFS Holdings minority interest 20 7 150 Operating loss including the results of Direct Line Group discontinued operations 5,296 766 399 5,165 1,190 154 Direct Line Group discontinued operations 131 424 245 Operating loss before tax 5,165 1,190 154 5,165 1,190 154 Tax charge 469 1,127 703 469 1,127 703 Loss from continuing operations 5,634 2,317 857 5,634 2,317 857 Loss profit from discontinued operations, net of tax - Direct Line Group 184 301 176 184 301 176 - Other 12 47 633 12 47 633 Loss profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 172 348 809 172 348 809 Loss for the year 5,806 1,969 1,666 5,806 1,969 1,666 Non-controlling interests 123 28 665 123 28 665 Other owners dividends 288 124 288 124 Loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders 5,971 1,997 1,125 5,971 1,997 1,125 On a statutory basis, operating loss excludes the results of Direct Line Group.
Included within Direct Line Group discontinued operations are the managed basis divisional results of Direct Line Group DLG, certain DLG related activities in Central items and Non-Core: and related one-off and other items including write-down of goodwill, integration and restructuring costs and strategic disposals.
45 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 46 Business review continued Summary consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued Managed Statutory 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m m Basic loss per ordinary and B share from continuing operations 1 53.7p 21.3p 2.9p 53.7p 21.3p 2.9p Own credit adjustments 32.5p 13.9p 1.6p Asset Protection Scheme 0.3p 6.2p 10.6p Payment Protection Insurance costs 7.8p 5.8p Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs 4.9p Regulatory fines 3.5p Sovereign debt impairment 10.2p Interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt 1.6p Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 1.2p 1.4p 2.4p Integration and restructuring costs 11.3p 7.6p 7.5p Gain on redemption of own debt 3.2p 2.3p 9.5p Strategic disposals 1.0p 0.8p 1.4p Bank levy 1.6p 2.8p Bonus tax 0.2p 0.9p Write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets 1.1p 0.1p 0.1p Adjusted earnings loss per ordinary and B share from continuing operations 6.3p 0.8p 6.1p Note: 1 Prior year data have been adjusted for the sub-division and one-for-ten consolidation of ordinary shares, which took effect in June 2012.
Results summary Net interest income 2012 compared with 2011 - managed Group net interest income declined by 8% to 11,695 million largely Operating profit reflecting lower interest-earning asset balances.
Group net interest Group operating profit, excluding own credit adjustments, Asset margin NIM, despite very low interest rates and strong deposit Protection Scheme, Payment Protection Insurance PPI costs, Interest competition, remained stable.
Rate Hedging Products IRHP redress and related costs, regulatory fines, sovereign debt impairment, interest rate hedge adjustments on Non-interest income impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt, amortisation of purchased Non-interest income decreased by 928 million in 2012 principally driven intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption by lower net fees and commissions and a fall in insurance net premium of own debt, strategic disposals, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of income.
Net fees and commissions fell largely due to weaker consumer goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI, and includes the results spending volumes in the UK together with legislation changes in the US.
of Direct Line Group on a managed basis which are included in Insurance net premium income was down primarily due to lower written discontinued operations in the statutory results, was 3,462 million premiums in Direct Line Group.
The improvement was driven by lower costs in Markets, reflecting reduced headcount and lower levels of Operating expenses variable compensation, and a better operating performance in Non-Core, Total operating expenses, excluding Payment Protection Insurance costs, where losses fell by 32%.
These improvements were partially offset by Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs, regulatory weaker performance in Retail & Commercial, as economic conditions fines, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and remained difficult.
restructuring costs, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI, and including Direct Line on a Total income managed basis, which is included in discontinued operations in the Total income, excluding own credit adjustments, Asset Protection statutory results, fell by 6% to 14,619 million, with staff costs down 6% Scheme, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals and RFS as headcount fell by 9,600 to 137,200.
The decline in expenses was MI, and including Direct Line Group on a managed basis, which is largely driven by Non-Core run-down and lower variable compensation included in discontinued operations in the statutory results, fell by 7% to particularly in Markets, including variable compensation award 25,787 million, primarily reflecting lower net interest income and a fall in reductions and clawbacks following the settlements reached with UK and insurance net premium income.
US authorities in relation to attempts to manipulate LIBOR.
The run-off of discontinued businesses in Markets and International Banking, following the restructuring announced in January 2012, and simplification of processes and headcount reduction in UK Retail also yielded cost benefits.
Group cost: income ratio was flat at 63%.
46 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 47 RBS GROUP 2012 Insurance net claims Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs General insurance claims were 541 million lower, primarily reflecting Following an industry-wide review conducted in conjunction with the lower volumes, higher reserve releases and improved claims experience, Financial Services Authority, a charge of 700 million has been booked more than offsetting an increase of 85 million in Home weather events for redress in relation to certain interest-rate hedging products sold to claims.
small and medium-sized businesses classified as retail clients under FSA rules.
Impairment losses Impairment losses fell to 5,279 million from 7,439 million in 2011, with Regulatory fines Core impairments falling by 464 million and Non-Core by 1,696 million, On 6 February 2013, RBS reached agreement with the Financial mostly in the Ulster Bank and commercial real estate portfolios.
Services Authority, the US Department of Justice and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in relation to the setting of LIBOR and other Impairments represented 1.2% of gross loans and advances excluding trading rates, including financial penalties of 381 million.
The Group reverse repos compared with 1.5% in 2011. continues to co-operate with other bodies in this regard and expects it will incur some additional financial penalties.
Risk elements in lending at 31 December 2012 represented 9.1% of loans and advances excluding reverse repos, compared with 8.6% a year Tax earlier.
Provision coverage was 52%, compared with 49% at 31 The tax charge was 469 million in 2012, compared with 1,127 million in December 2011.
The high tax charge in the year reflects profits in high tax regimes principally US and losses in low tax regimes principally Ireland, losses Non-operating items in overseas subsidiaries for which a deferred tax asset has not been The continuing strengthening RBSs credit profile resulted in a 4,649 recognised principally Ireland, the reduction in the carrying value of million accounting charge in relation to own credit adjustments versus a deferred tax assets in Ireland in view of continuing losses, the reduction gain of 1,914 million in 2011.
This reflected a tightening of more than in the carrying value of deferred tax assets in Australia following the 340 basis points in the Groups credit spreads over the year.
strategic changes to the Markets and International Banking businesses announced in January 2012 and the effect of the two reductions of 1% in The Asset Protection Scheme, which the Group exited from during the the rate of UK corporation tax enacted in March 2012 and July 2012 on year, was accounted for as a credit derivative and movements in the fair the net deferred tax balance.
value of the contract were taken as non-operating items.
The APS fair value charge was 44 million in 2012 bringing the cumulative charge for Earnings per share the APS to 2.5 billion.
Basic loss per ordinary and B share from continuing operations was 53.7p per share compared with 21.3p per share in 2011.
Adjusted To reflect current experience of Payment Protection Insurance complaints earnings per ordinary and B share from continuing operations was 6.3p received, the Group increased its PPI provision by 1,110 million in 2012 compared with a loss per share of 0.8p in 2011. compared with 850 million in 2011, bringing the cumulative charge taken to 2.2 billion, of which 1.3 billion 59% in redress had been paid by 31 2012 compared with 2011 - statutory December 2012.
Operating loss Operating loss before tax for the year was 5,165 million compared with In 2011, the Group recorded an impairment loss of 1,099 million in 1,190 million in 2011. respect of its AFS portfolio of Greek government debt.
In 2012, the vast majority of this portfolio was exchanged for Greek sovereign debt and Total income European Financial Stability Facility notes: the Greek sovereign debt Total income decreased 27% to 17,941 million in 2012. received in the exchange was sold.
Net interest income Integration and restructuring costs of 1,550 million increased by 486 Net interest income decreased by 7% to 11,402 million.
million versus 1,064 million in 2011, primarily driven by costs incurred in relation to the strategic restructuring of Markets and International Banking Non-interest income M&IB that took place during 2012.
Non-interest income decreased to 6,539 million from 12,348 million in 2011.
This included movements in the fair value of the Asset Protection Liability management exercises undertaken by the Group during 2012 Scheme resulting in a 44 million charge 2011 - 906 million, net gain resulted in a net gain of 454 million 2011 - 255 million.
on redemption of own debt of 454 million 2011 - 255 million and a loss on own credit adjustments of 4,649 million 2011 - 1,914 million The UK bank levy is based on the total chargeable equity and liabilities gain.
Excluding these items, non-interest income was down 3% as reported in the balance sheet at the end of a chargeable period.
The compared with 2011. cost of the levy to the Group for 2012 was 175 million compared with 300 million in 2011.
47 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 48 Business review continued Results summary continued Net interest income Operating expenses Group net interest income fell 11% to 12,689 million largely driven by Operating expenses increased to 17,827 million from 17,134 million in the run-off of balances and exit of higher margin, higher risk segments in 2011.
This included PPI costs of 1,110 million 2011 - 850 million, Non-Core.
Group NIM was 9 basis points lower, reflecting the cost of IRHP redress and related costs of 700 million, regulatory fines of 381 carrying a higher liquidity portfolio and by the impact of non-performing million, integration and restructuring costs of 1,415 million compared assets in the Non-Core division.
However, R&C NIM was up 6 basis with 1,016 million in 2011, and write-down of goodwill and other points, with strengthening asset margins in the first half of the year intangible assets of 124 million, principally as a result of exits from offsetting the impact of a competitive deposit market.
selective countries and lower revenue projections by Markets.
Excluding these items, operating expenses were down 8% driven by cost savings Non-interest income achieved as a result of the cost reduction programme.
Non-interest income decreased by 3,374 million in 2011 principally driven by lower trading income in Markets and Non-Core, and a fall in Impairment losses insurance net premium income.
Volatile market conditions led to a Impairment losses were 5,279 million, compared with 8,707 million in reduction in Markets trading income, driven by the deterioration in global 2011. credit markets as sovereign difficulties in the eurozone grew.
Non-Core trading losses increased by 690 million, reflecting costs incurred as part Risk elements in lending represented 9.1% of gross loans and advances of the divisions focus on reducing capital trading assets.
to customers excluding reverse repos at 31 December 2012 2011 - 8.6%.
Operating expenses Total operating expenses, excluding PPI costs, amortisation of purchased Provision coverage of risk elements in lending was 52% 2011 - 49%.
intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI, fell Tax by 7% to 15,478 million, driven by cost savings achieved as a result of The tax charge for 2012 was 469 million 2011 - 1,127 million.
the cost reduction programme and Non-Core run-off, largely reflecting the disposal of RBS Sempra and specific country exits.
Staff costs fell 9%, Loss per share driven by lower Markets and International Banking variable compensation Basic loss per ordinary and B share from continuing operations was as a result of its decrease in revenues, and in Non-Core, given the impact 53.7p per share compared with 21.3p per share in 2011. of a 32% reduction in headcount and continued business disposals and country exits.
The Group cost: income ratio was 63% in 2011 compared 2011 compared with 2010 - managed with 60% in 2010.
Operating profit Group operating profit, excluding own credit adjustments, Asset Insurance net claims Protection Scheme, PPI costs, sovereign debt impairment, interest rate General insurance claims were 1,730 million lower, mainly due to the hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt, non-repeat of bodily injury reserve strengthening in 2010, fide-risking of amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring the motor book, more benign weather in 2011 and claims in Non-Core costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bank levy, decreasing as legacy policies ran-off.
bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS holdings minority interest was 1,824 million compared with 1,845 Impairment losses million in 2010.
Adjusting for the impact of the disposal of GMS in 2010, Impairment losses fell to 7,439 million from 9,256 million in 2010, with which recorded an operating profit of 207 million, Group operating profit Core impairments falling by 260 million and Non-Core by 1,557 million, was up 11%.
The improvement was driven by a strong Retail & despite continuing challenges in Ulster Bank and corporate real estate Commercial R&C operating performance and the return to profit of portfolios.
Ulster Bank and Markets faced more difficult conditions, leaving total Core operating profit at 6,045 million.
Non-Core Impairments represented 1.5% of gross loans and advances excluding operating loss in 2011 was 26% lower compared with 2010, despite the reverse repos compared with 1.7% in 2010. acceleration of disposals in the second half of the year.
Risk elements in lending at 31 December 2011 represented 8.6% of Total income loans and advances excluding reverse repos, compared with 7.3% a year Total income, excluding own credit adjustments, Asset Protection earlier.
Provision coverage was 49%, compared with 47% at 31 Scheme, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals and RFS December 2010.
MI, fell by 15% to 27,709 million, primarily reflecting lower net interest income, lower trading income in Markets and Non-Core and a fall in insurance net premium income.
48 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 49 RBS GROUP 2012 Non-operating items 2011 compared with 2010 - statutory A gain on the movement in own credit adjustments of 1,914 million was Operating loss recorded in 2011 as Group credit spreads widened.
This compares with a Operating loss before tax for the year was 1,190 million compared with smaller gain of 242 million in 2010.
The Asset Protection Scheme is accounted for as a credit derivative and Total income movements in the fair value of the contract are taken as non-operating Total income decreased 7% to 24,651 million in 2011. items.
The APS fair value charge was 906 million in 2011.
The cumulative charge for the APS was 2,456 million as at 31 December Net interest income 2011.
Net interest income decreased by 11% to 12,303 million.
A charge of 850 million was booked in relation to Payment Protection Non-interest income Insurance PPI claims following the British Bankers Association Non-interest income decreased to 12,348 million from 12,840 million in decision, in May 2011, not to appeal the findings of the Judicial Review.
This included movements in the fair value of the Asset Protection Scheme resulting in a 906 million charge 2010 - 1,550 million, gain An impairment of 1,099 million was taken on the Groups AFS bond on redemption of own debt of 255 million 2010 - 553 million and a portfolio in 2011 as a result of the decline in the value of Greek sovereign gain on movements in own credit adjustments of 1,914 million 2010 - bonds.
As of 31 December 2011, the bonds were marked at 21% of par 242 million gain.
Excluding these items, non-interest income was down value.
18% primarily reflecting a reduction in income from trading activities and lower net fees and commissions.
Integration and restructuring costs remained broadly flat at 1,016 million, reflecting significant Markets restructuring in 2011.
Operating expenses Operating expenses decreased to 17,134 million 2010 - 17,456 In 2011, the Group redeemed certain mortgage backed debt securities in million of which integration and restructuring costs were 1,016 million exchange for cash, resulting in gains totalling 255 million.
This compared with 1,012 million in 2010. compared with a gain of 553 million in 2010 on a liability management exercise to redeem a number of Tier 1 and upper Tier 2 securities.
Impairment losses Impairment losses were 8,707 million, compared with 9,235 million in The Finance Act 2011 introduced an annual bank levy in the UK.
The 2010. levy is based on the total chargeable equity and liabilities as reported in the balance sheet at the end of a chargeable period.
The cost of the levy Risk elements in lending represented 8.6% of gross loans and advances to the Group for 2011 was 300 million.
to customers excluding reverse repos at 31 December 2011 2010 - 7.3%.
Tax The tax charge was 1,127 million in 2011, compared with 703 million in Provision coverage of risk elements in lending was 49% 2010 - 47%.
The high tax charge for the year reflects profits in high tax regimes principally US and losses in low tax regimes principally Ireland, losses Tax in overseas subsidiaries for which a deferred tax asset has not been The tax charge for 2011 was 1,127 million 2010 - 703 million.
recognised principally Ireland and the Netherlands and the effect of the two reductions of 1% in the rate of UK corporation tax enacted in March Loss per share 2011 and July 2011 on the net deferred tax balance.
Basic loss per ordinary share from continuing operations was 21.3p per share compared with 2.9p per share in 2010.
Earnings Basic loss per ordinary and B share from continuing operations increased from a loss of 2.9p per share to a loss of 21.3p per share.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary and B share fell from, 6.1p per share to a loss of 0.8p per share.
As a result, interest receivable has been increased by 6 million.
2 Interest receivable has been increased by 8 million 2011 - 8 million: 2010 - 11 million and interest payable has been increased by 152 million 2011 - 150 million increase: 2010 - 30 million decrease to record interest on financial assets and liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Related interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities have also been adjusted.
3 Interest receivable was decreased by 90 million in 2010 in respect of a non-recurring receivable.
4 Interest receivable was increased by 2 million in 2011 in respect of exceptional interest receivable.
5 Interest payable has been decreased by 138 million in respect of non-recurring adjustments 2011 - 143 million decrease: 2010 - 319 million increase.
6 Interest receivable has been increased by nil 2011 - 5 million increase: 2010 - 10 million decrease and interest payable has been decreased by 15 million 2011 - 3 million: 2010 - 1 million to exclude RFS Holdings minority interest.
7 Interest receivable has been increased by 307 million 2011 - 374 million: 2010 - 424 million and interest payable has been increased by 29 million 2011 - 2 million decrease: 2010 - 3 million decrease to include the discontinued operations of Direct Line Group.
8 Interest income includes 565 million 2011 - 627 million: 2010 - 588 million in respect of loan fees forming part of the effective interest rate of loans and receivables.
9 Gross yield is the interest earned on average interest-earning assets of the banking book.
10 Interest spread is the difference between the gross yield and the interest rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities of the banking business.
11 Net interest margin is net interest income of the banking business as a percentage of average interest-earning assets of the banking business.
12 The analysis into UK and overseas has been compiled on the basis of location of office.
13 Interest receivable and interest payable on trading assets and liabilities are included in income from trading activities.
14 Interest income includes amounts unwind of discount recognised on impaired loans and receivables.
The average balances of such loans are included in average loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers.
51 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 52 Business review continued Average balance sheet and related interest continued Managed 2010 Average balance Interest Rate m m % Assets Loans and advances to banks - UK 22,578 223 0.99 - Overseas 30,143 369 1.22 Loans and advances to customers - UK 311,060 11,907 3.83 - Overseas 197,340 6,936 3.51 Debt securities - UK 66,734 1,467 2.20 - Overseas 62,103 1,791 2.88 Interest-earning assets - UK 400,372 13,597 3.40 - Overseas 289,586 9,096 3.14 Total interest-earning assets - banking business 1,2, 3,6, 7,8 689,958 22,693 3.29 - trading business 13 276,330 Interest-earning assets 966,288 Non-interest-earning assets 1,2 705,916 Total assets 1,672,204 Percentage of assets applicable to overseas operations 44.1% Liabilities Deposits by banks - UK 21,816 334 1.53 - Overseas 59,542 996 1.67 Customer accounts: demand deposits - UK 120,796 621 0.51 - Overseas 39,218 609 1.55 Customer accounts: savings deposits - UK 68,142 935 1.37 - Overseas 25,587 213 0.83 Customer accounts: other time deposits - UK 42,818 431 1.01 - Overseas 45,080 914 2.03 Debt securities in issue - UK 123,729 2,186 1.77 - Overseas 72,247 1,065 1.47 Subordinated liabilities - UK 19,998 480 2.40 - Overseas 9,336 252 2.70 Internal funding of trading business - UK 41,451 140 0.34 - Overseas 6,864 41 0.60 Interest-bearing liabilities - UK 355,848 4,847 1.36 - Overseas 244,146 4,008 1.64 Total interest-bearing liabilities - banking business 1,2, 5,6, 7 599,994 8,855 1.48 - trading business 13 293,993 Interest-bearing liabilities 893,987 Non-interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits - UK 29,022 - Overseas 23,994 Other liabilities 2,9 648,295 Owners' equity 76,906 Total liabilities and owners' equity 1,672,204 Percentage of liabilities applicable to overseas operations 41.3% For the notes to this table refer to page 50.
53 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 54 Business review continued Average balance sheet and related interest continued Statutory 2010 Average balance Interest Rate m m % Assets Loans and advances to banks - UK 20,198 208 1.03 - Overseas 30,029 368 1.23 Loans and advances to customers - UK 310,112 11,736 3.78 - Overseas 196,417 6,894 3.51 Debt securities - UK 60,179 1,261 2.10 - Overseas 63,348 1,812 2.86 Interest-earning assets - UK 390,489 13,205 3.38 - Overseas 289,794 9,074 3.13 Total interest-earning assets - banking business 1,2, 3,8 680,283 22,279 3.27 - trading business 13 276,330 Interest-earning assets 956,613 Non-interest-earning assets 1,2 715,591 Total assets 1,672,204 Percentage of assets applicable to overseas operations 44.1% Liabilities Deposits by banks - UK 21,816 334 1.53 - Overseas 59,799 999 1.67 Customer accounts: demand deposits - UK 121,186 624 0.51 - Overseas 39,127 607 1.55 Customer accounts: savings deposits - UK 68,142 935 1.37 - Overseas 25,587 213 0.83 Customer accounts: other time deposits - UK 42,818 431 1.01 - Overseas 45,080 914 2.03 Debt securities in issue - UK 123,729 2,186 1.77 - Overseas 72,247 1,065 1.47 Subordinated liabilities - UK 19,998 480 2.40 - Overseas 9,336 252 2.70 Internal funding of trading business - UK 41,451 140 0.34 - Overseas 6,864 41 0.60 Interest-bearing liabilities - UK 356,238 4,850 1.36 - Overseas 244,312 4,009 1.64 Total interest-bearing liabilities - banking business 1,2, 5 600,550 8,859 1.48 - trading business 13 293,993 Interest-bearing liabilities 894,543 Non-interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits - UK 29,022 - Overseas 23,994 Other liabilities 2,9 647,739 Owners' equity 76,906 Total liabilities and owners' equity 1,672,204 Percentage of liabilities applicable to overseas operations 41.3% For the notes to this table refer to page 50.
54 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 55 RBS GROUP 2012 Analysis of change in net interest income - volume and rate analysis Volume and rate variances have been calculated based on movements in average balances over the period and changes in interest rates on average interest-earning assets and average interest-bearing liabilities.
Changes due to a combination of volume and rate are allocated pro rata to volume and rate movements.
2012 compared with 2011 - managed 2012 compared with 2011 - statutory Non-interest income was down 6% at 14,092 million with higher profits Non-interest income was down 47% at 6,539 million primarily due to the on available-for-sale bond disposals in Group Treasury more than offset accounting charge for improved own credit of 4,649 million compared by a 10% decline in fees and commissions, largely due to a decline in UK with a credit of 1,914 million in 2011, offset by a lower fair value charge Retail fees as a result of weaker consumer spending volumes, and lower of 44 million compared with 906 million in 2011 on the Asset Protection insurance net premium income.
Markets trading income was sustained, despite the significant reduction Net fees and commissions fell by 10% largely due to a decline in UK in trading assets through balance sheet management and optimisation.
Retail fees, as a result of weaker consumer spending volumes, and in Markets, primarily due to the run-off in the cash equity business.
The decrease in other operating income predominantly reflected the disposal of RBS Aviation Capital in June 2012, which resulted in lower Markets trading income was sustained, despite the significant reduction rental income in Non-Core.
in trading assets following its restructuring early in 2012.
Insurance net premium income fell by 13%, primarily reflecting lower The decrease in other operating income predominantly reflected own written premiums in Direct Line Group.
credit adjustments and the disposal of RBS Aviation Capital in June 2012, which resulted in lower rental income in Non-Core, partially offset by a lower fair value charge on the Asset Protection Scheme.
The continuing strengthening of RBSs credit profile resulted in a 4,649 million accounting charge in relation to own credit adjustment versus a gain of 1,914 million in 2011.
This reflected a tightening of more than 340 basis points in the Groups cash market credit spreads over the year.
APS is accounted for as a derivative and the movements in fair value are recorded each quarter.
The fair value charge was 44 million in 2012 versus 906 million in 2011.
57 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 58 Business review continued Non-interest income continued 2011 compared with 2010 - statutory 2011 compared with 2010 - managed Non-interest income decreased by 492 million in 2011 principally driven Non-interest income decreased by 3,374 million in 2011 principally by lower trading income in Markets and Non-Core, partially offset by a driven by lower trading income in Markets and Non-Core and a fall in higher gain on movements in own credit adjustments.
Volatile market conditions led to a reduction in Markets trading income, Volatile market conditions led to a reduction in Markets trading income, driven by the deterioration in global credit markets as sovereign driven by the deterioration in global credit markets as sovereign difficulties in the eurozone grew.
difficulties in the eurozone grew.
Non-Core trading losses increased by 690 million, reflecting costs Non-Core trading losses increased by 690 million, reflecting costs incurred as part of the divisions focus on reducing capital trading assets, incurred as part of the divisions focus on reducing capital trading assets, with activity including the restructuring of monoline exposures, which with activity including the restructuring of monoline exposures, which mitigated both significant immediate and future regulatory uplifts in riskmitigated both significant immediate and future regulatory uplifts in riskweighted assets.
A gain in own credit adjustments of 1,914 million was recorded as a Insurance net premium income fell by 17% largely driven by Direct Line result of Group credit spreads widening.
This compares with a smaller Groups exit from certain business segments, along with reduced gain of 242 million in 2010. volumes driven by the fide-risking of the motor book.
Insurance net premium income in Non-Core also decreased as legacy policies ran-off.
2010 results included 482 million of income recorded for GMS prior to its disposal in November 2010.
58 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 59 RBS GROUP 2012 Operating expenses and insurance claims Managed 1 Statutory 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m m Staff costs 7,639 8,163 8,956 8,076 8,356 9,379 Premises and equipment 2,198 2,278 2,276 2,232 2,423 2,380 Other administrative expenses - Payment Protection Insurance costs 1,110 850 - Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs 700 - regulatory fines 381 - other 3,248 3,395 3,716 3,402 3,586 3,571 Administrative expenses 13,085 13,836 14,948 15,901 15,215 15,330 Depreciation and amortisation 1,534 1,642 1,762 1,802 1,839 2,125 Write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets 124 80 1 Operating expenses 14,619 15,478 16,710 17,827 17,134 17,456 General insurance 2,427 2,968 4,698 Bancassurance 85 85 Insurance net claims 2,427 2,968 4,783 85 Staff costs as a percentage of total income 30% 29% 27% 45% 34% 35% Note: 1 Managed basis excludes PPI costs, Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs, regulatory fines, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI: and includes Direct Line Group on a managed basis which included discontinued operations in the statutory results.
2012 compared with 2011 - managed 2012 compared with 2011 - statutory Operating expenses fell by 859 million, or 6%, with staff costs also down Operating expenses increased by 693 million, or 4% primarily due to 6% but broadly stable as a percentage of total income as headcount fell charges resulting from legacy conduct issues partially offset by Non-Core by 9,600 to 137,200.
The decline in expenses was largely driven by Nonrun-down and run-off of exited businesses in Markets and International Core run-down and lower variable compensation particularly in Markets, Banking, following the restructuring announced in January 2012. including bonus award reductions and clawbacks following the Simplification of processes and headcount reduction in UK Retail also settlements reached with UK and US authorities in relation to attempted yielded cost benefits.
The run-off of exited businesses in Markets and International Banking, following the restructuring announced in January Staff expenses were cut by 3%.
Excluding integration and restructuring 2012, and simplification of processes and headcount reduction in UK costs of 811 million 2011 - 464 million, staff costs were down 8%, as Retail also yielded cost benefits.
headcount fell by 9,600 to 137,200. Business Services costs were down 6% in the year, reflecting increased To reflect current experience of Payment Protection Insurance complaints benefits from earlier cost saving programmes as a number of initiatives received, RBS increased its PPI provision by 1,110 million in 2012, reached their full run rate.
Technology Services costs were 8% lower and bringing the cumulative charge taken to 2.2 billion, of which 1.3 billion Corporate Services costs 6% lower.
Headcount was 2% down on 2011. in redress had been paid by 31 December 2012.
Insurance net claims decreased by 18% as lower volumes, higher On 31 January 2013, the Financial Services Authority announced the reserve releases and improved claims experience more than offset an findings of its industry-wide review of the sale of Interest Rate Hedging increase of 85 million in Home weather events claims.
Products to some small and medium-sized businesses that were classified as retail clients under FSA rules.
As a result, RBS provided The Core cost:income ratio was broadly flat at 59%, reflecting the 700 million in 2012 to meet the costs of redress.
ongoing focus on cost control in an environment where income growth remained challenging.
On 6 February 2013, RBS reached agreement with the Financial Services Authority, the US Department of Justice and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in relation to the setting of LIBOR and other trading rates, including financial penalties of 381 million.
The Group continues to co-operate with other bodies in this regard and expects it will incur some additional financial penalties.
59 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 60 Business review continued Operating expenses and insurance claims continued 2011 compared with 2010 - statutory 2011 compared with 2010 - managed Group expenses fell by 2% in 2011, driven by cost savings achieved as a Group expenses were 7% lower in 2011, driven by cost savings achieved result of the cost reduction programme and Non-Core run-off, largely as a result of the cost reduction programme and Non-Core run-off, largely reflecting the disposal of RBS Sempra and specific country exits, partially reflecting the disposal of RBS Sempra and specific country exits.
offset by Payment Protection Insurance costs.
Staff costs fell 9%, driven by lower Markets and International Banking variable compensation as a result of its decrease in revenues, and in Staff costs fell 11%, driven by lower Markets and International Banking Non-Core, given the impact of a 32% reduction in headcount and discretionary compensation as a result of its decrease in revenues, and in continued business disposals and country exits.
Non-Core, given the impact of a 32% reduction in headcount and continued business disposals and country exits.
General insurance claims were 1,730 million lower, mainly due to the non-repeat of bodily injury reserve strengthening in 2010, fide-risking of In May 2011, following the decision of the British Bankers Association the motor book, more benign weather in 2011 and claims in Non-Core not to appeal the judgement of the judicial review, the Group recorded a decreasing as legacy policies ran-off.
provision of 850 million in respect of the costs of Payment Protection Insurance redress.
The Groups cost reduction programme delivered cost savings with an underlying run rate of over 3 billion by the end of 2011.
Integration costs 2012 2011 2010 m m m Staff costs 38 210 Premises and equipment 2 6 3 Other administrative expenses 2 51 143 Depreciation and amortisation 11 20 106 376 Note: 1 Integration costs in 2011 excluded a 2 million charge included within net interest income and a loss of 3 million within other operating income in respect of integration activities.
2012 compared with 2011 2011 compared with 2010 Integration costs were nil compared with 106 million in 2011.
Integration Integration costs were 106 million compared with 376 million in 2010. costs decreased primarily due to a reduction of RBS N. V. formerly ABN Integration costs decreased primarily due to a reduction of RBS N. V. AMRO integration activity during the year.
formerly ABN AMRO integration activity during the year.
Accruals in relation to integration costs are set out below.
Credit charge to income At statement Utilised At 1 January - continuing during 31 December 2012 operations the year 2012 m m m m Premises and equipment 11 2 9 Other administrative expenses 3 2 5 14 14 60 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 61 RBS GROUP 2012 Restructuring costs 2012 2011 2010 m m m Staff costs 737 356 353 Premises and equipment 145 156 117 Other administrative expenses 270 276 104 Depreciation and amortisation 142 1,294 788 574 2012 compared with 2011 2011 compared with 2010 Restructuring costs were 1,294 million compared with 788 million in Restructuring costs were 788 million compared with 574 million in 2011.
The increase was primarily driven by costs incurred in relation to 2010.
The increase is due to the number of Group restructuring projects the strategic restructuring of Markets and International Banking increasing during the year.
Accruals in relation to restructuring costs are set out below.
Charge Charge to income to income At Currency statement statement Utilised Transfer to At 1 January translation - continuing - discontinued during disposal 31 December 2012 adjustments operations operations the year groups 2012 m m m m m m m Staff costs - redundancy 126 5 626 37 336 24 434 Staff costs - other 40 74 3 111 Premises and equipment 166 141 4 22 289 Other administrative expenses 110 2 261 9 107 7 264 Depreciation and amortisation 142 142 442 3 1,244 50 641 31 1,067 Divestment costs 2012 2011 2010 m m m Staff costs 148 95 51 Premises and equipment 9 11 6 Other administrative expenses 99 59 25 256 165 82 2012 compared with 2011 2011 compared with 2010 Divestment costs were 256 million compared with 165 million in 2011 Divestment costs of 165 million compared with 82 million in 2010 as the preparation for the European Commission mandated divestments related to the European Commission mandated divestments.
Accruals in relation to divestment costs are set out below.
Charge credit Charge to income to income At statement statement Utilised Transfer to At 1 January - continuing - discontinued during disposal 31 December 2012 operations operations the year groups 2012 m m m m m m Staff costs - redundancy 45 47 37 41 1 87 Staff costs - other 1 64 19 46 Premises and equipment 2 11 9 Other administrative expenses 21 62 37 43 4 73 67 171 85 112 5 206 61 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 26 03 2013 17:24 Page 62 Business review continued Impairment losses Managed 1 Statutory 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m m New impairment losses 5,620 7,966 9,667 5,620 9,234 9,646 Less: recoveries of amounts previously written-off 341 527 411 341 527 411 Charge to income statement 5,279 7,439 9,256 5,279 8,707 9,235 Comprising: Loan impairment losses 5,315 7,241 9,144 5,315 7,241 9,144 Securities - sovereign debt impairment 1,099 - interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt 169 - other 36 198 112 36 198 91 Charge to income statement 5,279 7,439 9,256 5,279 8,707 9,235 Note: 1 Managed basis excludes sovereign debt impairment and interest rate hedge adjustments on available-for-sale sovereign debt.
2012 compared with 2011 - managed and statutory 2011 compared with 2010 - statutory Loan impairment losses declined by 1,926 million to 5,315 million, Impairment losses decreased by 6% compared with 2010, driven largely primarily driven by a 1,518 million fall in Non-Core impairments, mostly by a 1,569 million reduction in Non-Core loan impairments, despite in the Ulster Bank and commercial real estate portfolios.
continuing challenges in Ulster Bank and corporate real estate portfolios.
This was partially offset by impairments taken on the Groups availableCore loan impairments were down 408 million, or 12%, largely due to for-sale bond portfolio, as a result of the decline in the value of Greek lower default rates in UK Retail and an improved credit environment for sovereign bonds.
US Retail & Commercial, which helped drive impairment reductions of 259 million and 165 million respectively.
Core Ulster Bank impairments Retail & Commercial impairment losses fell by 227 million, driven by stabilised, though still at a very high level 1,364 million in 2012 versus improving credit metrics in UK Retail and US Retail & Commercial 1,384 million in 2011. partially offset by increases in Ulster Bank, largely reflecting a deterioration in credit metrics on the mortgage portfolio, and a single Loan impairments as a percentage of gross loans and advances name provision in International Banking.
improved by 30 basis points, principally reflecting the improved credit profile in Non-Core and the better US credit environment.
Total Core and Non-Core Ulster Bank impairment losses decreased by 4%, as the 223 million increase in Core Ulster Bank losses was more Loan impairment provisions rose to 21.3 billion, increasing coverage of than offset by a decrease in losses recognised in Non-Core.
risk elements in lending to 52%, compared with 49% in 2011.
The Group held Greek government bonds with a notional amount of 2011 compared with 2010 - managed 1.45 billion.
As a result of Greeces continuing fiscal difficulties, the Impairment losses decreased by 20% compared with 2010, driven largely Group recorded impairment charges on these bonds totalling 1,099 by a 1,569 million reduction in Non-Core loan impairments, despite million during the year.
These charges were recorded to write the bonds continuing challenges in Ulster Bank and corporate real estate portfolios.
down to their market price as at 31 December 2011 c. 21% of notional.
Retail & Commercial impairment losses fell by 153 million, driven by improving credit metrics in UK Retail and US Retail & Commercial partially offset by increases in Ulster Bank, largely reflecting a deterioration in credit metrics on the mortgage portfolio, and a single name provision in International Banking.
Total Core and Non-Core Ulster Bank impairment losses decreased by 4%, as the 223 million increase in Core Ulster Bank losses was more than offset by a decrease in losses recognised in Non-Core.
62 GRA12 2a Bus rev 36 63 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:41 Page 63 RBS GROUP 2012 Tax Managed and Statutory 2012 2011 2010 m m m Tax charge 469 1,127 703 % % % UK corporation tax rate 24.5 26.5 28.0 Effective tax rate nm nm nm nm not meaningful The actual tax charge differs from the expected tax credit computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax as follows: Managed and Statutory 2012 2011 2010 m m m Expected tax credit 1,265 315 44 Sovereign debt impairment where no deferred tax asset recognised 275 Other losses in year where no deferred tax asset recognised 511 530 450 Foreign profits taxed at other rates 383 417 517 UK tax rate change impact 149 112 83 Unrecognised timing differences 59 20 11 Non-deductible goodwill impairment 24 3 Items not allowed for tax - losses on disposals and write-downs 49 72 311 - UK bank levy 43 80 - regulatory fines 93 - employee share schemes 9 113 32 - other disallowable items 246 258 296 Non-taxable items - gain on sale of RBS Aviation Capital 26 - gain on sale of Global Merchant Services 12 221 - gain on redemption of own debt 11 - other non-taxable items 104 242 341 Taxable foreign exchange movements 1 4 4 Losses brought forward and utilised 2 2 2 Reduction in carrying value of deferred tax asset in respect of losses in - Australia 191 - Ireland 203 Adjustments in respect of prior years 47 199 355 Actual tax charge 469 1,127 703 2012 compared with 2011 - managed and statutory 2011 compared with 2010 - managed and statutory The high tax charge in 2012 reflects profits in high tax regimes The high tax charge in 2011 reflects profits in high tax regimes principally US and losses in low tax regimes principally Ireland, losses principally US and losses in low tax regimes principally Ireland, losses in overseas subsidiaries for which a deferred tax asset has not been in overseas subsidiaries for which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised principally Ireland, the reduction in the carrying value of recognised principally Ireland and the Netherlands and the effect of two deferred tax assets in Ireland in view of continuing losses, the reduction reductions of 1% in the rate of UK corporation tax enacted in March 2011 in the carrying value of deferred tax assets in Australia following the and July 2011 on the net deferred tax balance.
strategic changes to the Markets and International Banking businesses announced in January 2012, and the effect of the two reductions of 1% in the rate of UK corporation tax enacted in March 2012 and July 2012 on the net deferred tax balance.
63 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 64 Business review continued Divisional performance Group Centre directly attributable costs have been allocated to the The results of each division on a managed basis are set out below.
The operating divisions, based on their service usage.
Where services span results are stated before movements in own credit adjustments, Asset more than one division, the costs are allocated on a basis management Protection Scheme, Payment Protection Insurance costs, Interest Rate considers reasonable.
The residual unallocated costs remaining in the Hedging Products redress and related costs, regulatory fines, sovereign Group Centre relate to volatile corporate items that do not naturally reside debt impairment, interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired availablewithin a division.
for-sale sovereign debt, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, Treasury costs are allocated to operating divisions as follows: term strategic disposals, bank levy, bonus tax, write-down of goodwill and funding costs are allocated or rewarded based on long term funding gap other intangible assets, RFS MI and includes the results of Direct Line or surplus: liquidity buffer funding costs are allocated based on share of Group on a managed basis which are included in discontinued operations overall liquidity buffer derived from divisional stresses: and capital cost or in the statutory results.
benefit is allocated based on share of divisional risk-adjusted riskweighted assets RWAs.
Business Services directly attributable costs have been allocated to the operating divisions, based on their service usage.
Where services span more than one division an appropriate measure is used to allocate the costs on a basis which management considers reasonable.
Business Services costs are fully allocated and there are no residual unallocated costs.
2012 2011 2010 Operating profit loss by division m m m UK Retail 1,891 2,021 1,348 UK Corporate 1,796 1,924 1,893 Wealth 253 248 283 International Banking 594 755 1,311 Ulster Bank 1,040 984 683 US Retail & Commercial 754 537 349 Retail & Commercial 4,248 4,501 4,501 Markets 1,509 899 2,724 Direct Line Group 441 454 295 Central items 143 191 630 Core 6,341 6,045 7,560 Non-Core 2,879 4,221 5,715 Operating profit 3,462 1,824 1,845 Own credit adjustments 4,649 1,914 242 Asset Protection Scheme 44 906 1,550 Payment Protection Insurance costs 1,110 850 Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs 700 Regulatory fines 381 Sovereign debt impairment 1,099 Interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt 169 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 178 222 369 Integration and restructuring costs 1,550 1,064 1,032 Gain on redemption of own debt 454 255 553 Strategic disposals 113 104 171 Bank levy 175 300 Bonus tax 27 99 Write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets 518 11 10 RFS Holdings minority interest 20 7 150 Operating loss including the results of Direct Line Group discontinued operations 5,296 766 399 Direct Line Group discontinued operations 131 424 245 Operating loss before tax 5,165 1,190 154 Included within Direct Line Group discontinued operations are the managed bases divisional results of Direct Line Group DLG, certain DLG related activities in Central items and Non-Core, and related one-off and other items including write-down of goodwill, integration and restructuring costs and strategic disposals.
2 Includes businesses outlined for disposal: gross loans and advances to customers 7.6 billion 2011 - 7.3 billion: 2010 - 6.8 billion, risk elements in lending 0.5 billion 2011 and 2010 - 0.5 billion and customer deposits 8.5 billion 2011 - 8.8 billion: 2010 - 9.0 billion.
3 Provision coverage percentage represents loan impairment provisions as a percentage of risk elements in lending.
Over the last four years UK Retail has undertaken stretching initiatives However, the business has also had setbacks in the year.
Customers and undergone significant change in order to meet its goal to consistently suffered from disruptions to payment systems in June.
Throughout this improve the service it offers to its customers.
Highlights in 2012 include: time UK Retail staff worked tirelessly to deal quickly with the issues and provide full redress and compensation to customers affected.
In addition, x Continued progress on the RBS and NatWest Customer Charter the provision relating to historic Payment Protection Insurance PPI miscommitments supporting our goal of becoming Britains most helpful selling was increased by 1.1 billion in 2012, bringing total PPI expense retail bank: to date to 2.2 billion.
This expense is not included in operating profit.
With the new UK conduct regulator examining many products and x Providing more than 500 million of cheaper mortgages through the services along with associated disclosures and sales practices, there are Governments Funding for Lending Scheme FLS, launched at the likely to be further impacts to business practices and potential additional end of June 2012 and opened for drawings in August 2012, which costs of redress.
The business is actively working to ensure its products represents 14% of all completions in the last quarter of 2012: set and sales practices are appropriate.
x Seeking and responding to customer feedback to enhance the retail Ross McEwan joined UK Retail as its new Chief Executive in September mobile banking app which is used by more than two million 2012 and spent considerable time engaging with customers and customers to manage their money and complete over one million employees around the country and reviewing business processes and transactions every week: performance.
With his management team, he has developed a range of initiatives, building upon existing efforts, which focus on simplifying x Increasing online banking webchat functionality to allow customers processes and providing a better experience for all customers.
Ultimately, real-time access to an advisor, direct from their computer, who can with a lot of hard work, the goal is to be the best retail bank in the UK.
answer queries and action basic account services 24 hours a day: and x Continued to invest in simplifying processes to make it easier for customers to bank with us, including introducing more than 200 cash deposit machines and ATMs to further reduce queuing times in branches.
68 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 69 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 compared with 2011 2011 compared with 2010 Operating profit fell by 6% as a 10% decline in income was only partly UK Retail delivered strong full year results, as operating profit increased offset by lower costs, down 6%, and improved impairment losses, down by 673 million to 2,021 million, despite continued uncertainty in the 33%.
economic climate and the low interest rate environment.
Profit before impairment losses was up 301 million or 12%, while impairments fell by Mortgage balances grew by 4.1 billion with the share of new business at 372 million, with further improvements in the unsecured book and 10%, ahead of our stock level of 8%.
Growth as a result of FLS was continued careful mortgage underwriting.
Return on equity improved to starting to appear by the end of the year as mortgage applications moved 24.5%.
through the pipeline to completion.
Deposit growth of 6% was in line with The division continued to focus on growing secured lending while at the the market and drove a 300 basis point improvement in the loan:deposit same time building customer deposits, thereby reducing the Groups ratio to 103%.
Loans and advances to customers grew 2%, with a change in mix from unsecured to secured as the Group Net interest income was down 7% due to weaker deposit margins and actively sought to improve its risk profile.
Mortgage balances grew by 5%, reduction in unsecured balances, partly offset by mortgage growth.
while unsecured lending contracted by 11%.
Unsecured balances now represent 13% of total loans and advances to customers compared with 23% in 2008, following realignment of risk x Mortgage growth reflected continued strong new business levels.
appetite and strong mortgage growth.
Net interest margin declined as a Gross mortgage lending market share of 10% continues above our result of lower rates on current account hedges and increased stock position of 8%.
competition on savings rates in the early part of the year, partly offset by widening asset margins.
x Customer deposits grew 6%, outperforming the market total deposit growth of 3%.
Savings balances grew by 6 billion, or 9%, with 1.5 Non-interest income was 19% lower mainly due to: million accounts opened, demonstrating the strength of our x lower unauthorised overdraft fees as we continue to help customers customer franchise and our strategy to further develop primary manage their finances by providing mobile text alerts and further banking relationships.
improving mobile banking functionality: Net interest income increased by 6% to 4,302 million, driven by strong x weak consumer confidence lowering spending and associated fees balance sheet growth.
Net interest margin increased 6 basis points on cards: and recovering asset margins more than offset by more competitive savings rates and lower long term swap rate returns adversely impacting liability x lower investment income as a result of weak customer demand and margins.
less advisor availability due to restructuring and retraining in preparation for regulatory changes in 2013.
Non-interest income declined 10% to 1,206 million, primarily driven by lower investment and protection income as a result of the dissolution of Costs were down 150 million, 6%, driven by the ongoing simplification of the bancassurance joint venture.
In addition, a number of changes have processes across the business, lower headcount and lower FSCS levy.
been made to support delivery of Helpful Banking, such as Act Now text alerts, which have decreased fee income.
Impairment losses were 259 million or 33% lower, reflecting the continued benefit of risk appetite tightening in prior years and also a Overall expenses decreased by 6%.
Cost reductions were driven by a smaller unsecured loan book.
Impairments as a percentage of loans and clear management focus on process re-engineering and operational advances were 50 basis points versus 70 basis points in 2011. efficiency together with benefits from the dissolution of the bancassurance joint venture, partly offset by higher inflation rates in utility Risk-weighted assets continued to improve over the year as the portfolio and mail costs.
mix adjusted, with increases in lower-risk secured mortgages, decreases in unsecured lending and further quality improvements across the book.
Impairment losses decreased 32% to 788 million reflecting the impact of a strengthened risk appetite, and a more stable economic environment.
Risk-weighted assets were broadly stable, with volume growth in lower risk secured mortgages more than offset by a decrease in the unsecured portfolio.
69 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 70 Business review continued UK Corporate 2012 2011 2010 m m m Net interest income 2,974 3,092 3,000 Net fees and commissions 1,365 1,375 1,353 Other non-interest income 384 396 443 Non-interest income 1,749 1,771 1,796 Total income 4,723 4,863 4,796 Direct expenses - staff 928 922 912 - other 364 390 411 Indirect expenses 797 834 813 2,089 2,146 2,136 Operating profit before impairment losses 2,634 2,717 2,660 Impairment losses 838 793 767 Operating profit 1,796 1,924 1,893 Analysis of income by business Corporate and commercial lending 2,636 2,643 2,571 Asset and invoice finance 685 660 616 Corporate deposits 568 694 738 Other 834 866 871 Total income 4,723 4,863 4,796 Analysis of impairments by sector Financial institutions 15 20 20 Hotels and restaurants 52 59 52 Housebuilding and construction 143 103 131 Manufacturing 49 34 1 Private sector education, health, social work, recreational and community services 37 113 30 Property 252 170 245 Wholesale and retail trade, repairs 112 85 91 Asset and invoice finance 40 38 64 Shipping 82 22 4 Other 56 149 129 Total impairment losses 838 793 767 Loan impairment charge as % of gross customer loans and advances excluding reverse repurchase agreements by sector Financial institutions 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% Hotels and restaurants 0.9% 1.0% 0.8% Housebuilding and construction 4.2% 2.6% 2.9% Manufacturing 1.0% 0.7% Private sector education, health, social work, recreational and community services 0.4% 1.3% 0.3% Property 1.0% 0.6% 0.8% Wholesale and retail trade, repairs 1.3% 1.0% 0.9% Asset and invoice finance 0.4% 0.4% 0.6% Shipping 1.1% 0.3% 0.1% Other 0.2% 0.6% 0.5% Total 0.8% 0.7% 0.7% Performance ratios Return on equity 1 14.5% 15.2% 13.6% Net interest margin 3.06% 3.06% 2.89% Cost:income ratio 44% 44% 45% Note: 1 Divisional return on equity is based on divisional operating profit after tax, divided by average notional equity based on 10% of the monthly average of divisional RWAs, adjusted for capital deductions.
70 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 71 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 2011 2010 bn bn bn Capital and balance sheet Loans and advances to customers gross 1 - financial institutions 5.8 5.8 6.2 - hotels and restaurants 5.6 6.1 6.8 - housebuilding and construction 3.4 3.9 4.5 - manufacturing 4.7 4.7 5.4 - private sector education, health, social work, recreational and community services 8.7 8.7 9.0 - property 24.8 28.2 29.5 - wholesale and retail trade, repairs 8.5 8.7 9.9 - asset and invoice finance 11.2 10.4 9.9 - shipping 7.6 7.8 7.5 - other 26.7 26.4 25.1 107.0 110.7 113.8 Loan impairment provisions 2.4 2.1 1.7 Net loans and advances to customers 104.6 108.6 112.1 Total third party assets 110.2 114.2 117.0 Risk elements in lending 1 5.5 5.0 4.0 Provision coverage 2 45% 40% 44% Customer deposits 1 127.1 126.3 124.5 Loan:deposit ratio excluding repos 82% 86% 90% Risk-weighted assets 86.3 79.3 84.2 Notes: 1 Includes businesses outlined for disposal: loans and advances to customers 11.3 billion 2011 - 12.2 billion: 2010 - 13.9 billion, risk elements in lending 0.9 billion 2011 - 1.0 billion: 2010 - 1.2 billion and customer deposits 13.0 billion 2011- 13.0 billion: 2010 - 15.0 billion.
2 Provision coverage percentage represents loan impairment provisions as a percentage of risk elements in lending.
Throughout the year, UK Corporate has also continued to invest in the During 2012, UK Corporate continued to support its customers and the UK economy and further demonstrated a commitment to the communities service it delivers to its customers through: it operates in.
x The introduction of a new enhanced telephony and online offering, RBS was the first bank to support the Governments Funding for Lending Business Connect.
This already supports over 170,000 small Scheme FLS.
The division is using the FLS to stimulate loan demand business customers, offering telephony access to experienced through reduced interest rates for its customers.
Since the schemes relationship managers from 8am to 8pm, in addition to its traditional launch, UK Corporate has supported over 11,000 SMEs with over 1.7 branch and relationship manager network: billion of allocated funds through FLS initiatives.
In addition, UK Corporate is providing targeted support to manufacturers through its x New mobile banking apps that allow customers to manage multiple Manufacturing Fund.
This has made 1 billion available to customers, accounts, make payments and transfers, and view detailed facilitating investment in technology and innovation and freeing up statements.
In 2012 over 70,000 users were using the app twice a working capital.
UK Corporate launched a Carbon Reduction Fund which day, transacting more than 700 million since launch: and provides 200 million of ring-fenced funding for businesses undertaking energy-efficiency projects.
The division has also supported its clients in x Regional Great place to do business events which bring investors, accessing the corporate bond markets.
Corporate clients raised a total of local authorities and prominent members of the community together 19 billion of bonds in 2012. to identify opportunities for stimulating growth in the community.
UK Corporate has invested significantly to further enhance the skills of its people.
As part of improvements to its specialist sector propositions, the business is tailoring its industry leading accreditation programme with industry specific modules.
The bespoke modules are endorsed by key sector bodies such as the National Farmers Union.
UK Corporate was the first high street bank to support the Evening Standard and City Gateway apprenticeship initiative, hiring an initial 16 young people onto its scheme.
71 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 72 Business review continued UK Corporate continued 2011 compared with 2010 2012 compared with 2011 Operating profit increased by 2% to 1,924 million, as higher income was With economic factors continuing to suppress business confidence, 2012 partially offset by higher impairments and an increase in expenses.
saw lower income and operating profit.
Nonetheless, the business delivered a return on equity of 14.5%, slightly below the prior year and Net interest income increased by 3%.
Net interest margin improved 17 comfortably ahead of the cost of capital.
basis points with benefits from re-pricing the lending portfolio and the revision to income deferral assumptions in Q1 2011 partially offset by Operating profit decreased by 7%, with income down 3% and increased increased funding costs together with continued pressure on deposit impairments, up 6%, partially offset by a 3% decrease in costs.
A 1% increase in deposit balances supported an improvement in the loan:deposit ratio to 86%.
Net interest income was 4% lower, reflecting a 3% fall in lending volumes as loan repayments outstripped new lending, deposit margin Non-interest income decreased by 1% as a result of lower Markets crosscompression due to strong competition and the continuation of low yields sales and fee income, partially offset by increased Invoice Finance and on current accounts.
This was partially offset by improved asset margins Lombard income.
and a 1% increase in deposit volumes.
Excluding the 29 million OFT penalty in 2010, total costs increased by Non-interest income was broadly in line with 2011, with stable income 2%, largely reflecting increased investment in the business and higher from transaction services, asset finance, Markets revenue share and costs of managing the non-performing book.
Impairments of 793 million were 3% higher due to increased specific Total costs were down 3% due to tight control over direct discretionary impairments and collectively assessed provisions, partially offset by lower expenditure combined with lower indirect costs as a result of operational latent loss provisions.
savings, partially offset by increased investment expenditure.
Core lending balances were up 200 million, excluding the property, housebuilding and construction sectors.
The loan:deposit ratio decreased by 400 basis points, principally reflecting deposit growth and portfolio fiderisking, particularly in commercial real estate.
The Group took part in a number of Government initiatives, seeking responsibly to stimulate additional credit demand in the face of continued customer deleveraging and low business confidence levels.
Impairments increased by 6% with lower specific provisions, mainly in the SME business, more than offset by reduced levels of latent provision releases across the division 44 million in 2012 versus 226 million in 2011.
Impairments as a percentage of loans and advances edged up modestly to 80 basis points.
Risk-weighted assets increased by 9% as regulatory changes to capital models during H2 2012 totalling 15 billion primarily the implementation of the market-wide slotting approach on real estate and increases to default risk weights in other models were partly offset by a fall in funded assets.
Not reflected in operating results was UK Corporates 350 million share of the provision for interest rate swap redress which relates to prior periods, mainly pre-2008.
72 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 73 RBS GROUP 2012 Wealth 2012 2011 2010 m m m Net interest income 720 645 588 Net fees and commissions 366 375 376 Other non-interest income 84 84 71 Non-interest income 450 459 447 Total income 1,170 1,104 1,035 Direct expenses - staff 424 413 382 - other 223 195 142 Indirect expenses 224 223 210 871 831 734 Operating profit before impairment losses 299 273 301 Impairment losses 46 25 18 Operating profit 253 248 283 Analysis of income Private banking 956 902 836 Investments 214 202 199 Total income 1,170 1,104 1,035 Performance ratios Return on equity 1 13.7% 13.1% 15.9% Net interest margin 3.73% 3.23% 3.26% Cost:income ratio 74% 75% 71% bn bn bn Capital and balance sheet Loans and advances to customers gross - mortgages 8.8 8.3 7.8 - personal 5.5 6.9 6.7 - other 2.8 1.7 1.6 17.1 16.9 16.1 Loan impairment provisions 0.1 0.1 0.1 Net loans and advances to customers 17.0 16.8 16.0 Risk elements in lending 0.2 0.2 0.2 Provision coverage 2 44% 38% 30% Assets under management excluding deposits 28.9 30.9 33.9 Customer deposits 38.9 38.2 37.1 Loan:deposit ratio excluding repos 44% 44% 43% Risk-weighted assets 12.3 12.9 12.5 Notes: 1 Divisional return on equity is based on divisional operating profit after tax divided by average notional equity based on 10% of the monthly average of divisional RWAs, adjusted for capital deductions.
73 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 74 Business review continued Wealth continued Expenses were 40 million or 5% higher at 871 million, with significant 2012 saw improved performance overall, with higher lending and deposit investment in change programmes, including the development of new margins and volumes driving higher income.
products and services capability and the implementation of RDR in the UK.
In 2012 the Coutts businesses continued to focus on implementing and delivering the new divisional strategy outlined in 2011.
The sale of Coutts Expenses also increased as a result of client redress following a past Latin American businesses and the completion of the rollout of Coutts business review into the sale of the ALICO Enhanced Variable Rate Fund global technology platform in the UK were tangible examples of this.
By announced in November 2011 and a Financial Services Authority fine of the end of the year the division had exited over 100 countries since the 8.75 million relating to Anti Money Laundering control processes.
strategy was introduced and was serving clients in the remaining countries through one central operating platform, a clear demonstration of Client assets and liabilities fell by 1% with a 2 billion decrease in assets the divisions commitment to its strategy.
under management, primarily reflecting low margin client outflows of 1.4 billion and the impact of client transfers following the disposal of the Latin In the UK, Q4 2012 saw the launch of Coutts new Retail Distribution American, Caribbean and African businesses.
This fall was partially offset Review RDRcompliant advice proposition and products.
Significant by increases in lending and deposit volumes.
investment was made during 2012 to ensure clients would continue to receive the best service, advice and products based on their specific Impairment losses were 46 million, up 21 million, largely reflecting a needs.
One example of this was the introduction of seven new UK and small number of large specific impairments.
global RDR-compliant multi-asset funds, allowing clients to continue to invest in a broad range of asset classes matched to their needs and risk 2011 compared with 2010 appetites.
Operating profit decreased by 12% on 2010 to 248 million, driven by increases in expenses 13% and impairments 39% partially offset by a Clients in the UK also benefited from the launch of the Coutts Mobile 7% growth in income.
service in October, offering clients greater choice and flexibility in the way they manage their banking needs electronically.
Income increased by 69 million with a strong treasury income and increases in lending and deposit volumes.
Non-interest income rose 3%, In the International business, the division further invested in Dubai, with investment income growing 2% despite turbulent market conditions.
Singapore and Mumbai as it continued to embed its targeted growth strategy.
Clients also benefited from enhancements to the collateralised Expenses increased by 97 million, largely driven by adverse foreign lending programme, where higher lending limits and a greater number of exchange movements and headcount growth to service the increased currencies available has increased its relevance to clients.
Additional strategic investment in technology enhancement, rebranding and programmes to support regulatory change 2012 compared with 2011 also contributed to the increase.
Operating profit increased by 5 million, or 2% to 253 million driven by higher income partially offset by increased expenses and impairment Client assets and liabilities managed by the division decreased by 1%.
Customer deposits grew 3% in a competitive environment and lending volumes grew 5%.
Assets under management declined 9%, with fund Total income increased by 66 million, with net interest income up 75 outflows contributing 3% of the decrease and market conditions making million, largely driven by improvements in margins and strong divisional up the balance.
Non-interest income fell by 2% as the gain from the disposal of the Latin American, Caribbean and African businesses was more than offset by a decline in fee income in the UK and lower investment volumes, driven by continued economic uncertainty.
74 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 75 RBS GROUP 2012 International Banking 2012 2011 2010 m m m Net interest income 922 1,199 1,353 Non-interest income 1,200 1,356 1,924 Total income 2,122 2,555 3,277 Direct expenses - staff 577 706 871 - other 162 226 274 Indirect expenses 678 700 735 1,417 1,632 1,880 Operating profit before impairment losses 705 923 1,397 Impairment losses 111 168 86 Operating profit 594 755 1,311 Of which: Ongoing businesses 602 773 1,348 Run-off businesses 8 18 37 Analysis of income by product Cash management 943 940 1,368 Trade finance 291 275 243 Loan portfolio 865 1,265 1,578 Ongoing businesses 2,099 2,480 3,189 Run-off businesses 23 75 88 Total income 2,122 2,555 3,277 Analysis of impairments by sector Manufacturing and infrastructure 42 254 17 Property and construction 7 17 102 Transport and storage 3 11 Telecommunications, media and technology 12 7 Banks and financial institutions 43 42 49 Other 10 72 55 Total impairment losses 111 168 86 Loan impairment charge as % of gross customer loans and advances excluding reverse repurchase agreements 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% Performance ratios ongoing businesses Return on equity 1 9.2% 11.5% 15.4% Net interest margin 1.64% 1.73% 1.92% Cost:income ratio 66% 62% 55% Note: 1 Divisional return on equity is based on divisional operating profit after tax divided by average notional equity based on 10% of the monthly average of divisional RWAs, adjusted for capital deductions, for the ongoing businesses.
75 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 76 Business review continued International Banking continued 2012 2011 2010 bn bn bn Capital and balance sheet Loans and advances to customers gross 1 42.2 57.7 62.9 Loan impairment provisions 0.4 0.8 0.8 Net loans and advances to customers 41.8 56.9 62.1 Loans and advances to banks 4.7 3.4 3.9 Securities 2.6 6.0 6.8 Cash and eligible bills 0.5 0.3 0.7 Other 3.4 3.3 4.4 Total third party assets excluding derivatives mark-to-market 53.0 69.9 77.9 Risk elements in lending 0.4 1.6 1.5 Provision coverage 2 93% 52% 58% Customer deposits excluding repos 46.2 45.1 43.7 Bank deposits excluding repos 5.6 11.4 7.3 Loan:deposit ratio excluding repos and conduits 85% 103% 112% Risk-weighted assets 51.9 43.2 51.7 m m m Run-off businesses 1 Total income 23 75 88 Direct expenses 31 93 125 Operating loss 8 18 37 Notes: 1 Excludes disposal groups.
3 Run-off businesses consist of the exited corporate finance businesses.
International Banking was formed in January 2012 to create an constraints, International Banking kept its focus on cost control integrated, client-focused business which serves RBSs large global throughout the year.
customers financing, risk management, trade finance, payments and cash management needs internationally.
Despite these headwinds, the division was recognised externally for its efforts in serving its customers needs, helping RBS Group gain awards Since its formation, the division has made significant progress in such as: strengthening its balance sheet and making efficient use of resources.
x Top European investment grade corporate bond bookrunner The loan portfolio decreased significantly due to strategic reduction Dealogic.
initiatives and disciplined capital allocation.
The divisions liability composition also improved, with additional customer deposits raised in x Number one cash management manager in the UK and number two the final quarter and the strategic run-off of commercial paper and shortin Europe Euromoney Cash Management Survey.
x Quality Leader in Large Corporate Trade Finance in the UK, and Performance in 2012 was restricted by macroeconomic pressures and number one for Large Corporate Trade Finance Penetration in the additional regulatory requirements across the industry.
76 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:01 Page 77 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 compared with 2011 Customer deposits increased by 2%.
Successful efforts to rebuild Operating profit decreased by 161 million as a decline in income was customer confidence following the Moodys credit rating downgrade and only partially mitigated by lower expenses and impairment losses.
the Group technology incident in June 2012 outweighed economic pressures.
This, coupled with the managed reduction in loans and Income was 17% lower: advances to customers, improved the loan:deposit ratio to 85%.
x Loan portfolio decreased by 32%, mainly due to a strategic reduction in assets, in order to allocate capital more efficiently, and Bank deposits were down 51%, mainly as a result of lower short-term the effect of portfolio credit hedging and lower corporate appetite for balances, reflecting a strategic initiative to reduce liquidity outflow risk.
Risk-weighted assets increased by 20%, reflecting the impact of x Cash management was broadly in line with the previous year.
regulatory uplifts partially offset by successful mitigation through balance Deposit margins declined following reductions in both three month sheet reduction.
Risk-weighted asset intensity in the loan book has LIBOR and five year fixed rates across Europe: however, this was increased significantly given the uplifts, which will result in strategic offset by lower liquidity costs due to the strategic initiative to reduce adjustments going forward.
2011 compared with 2010 x Trade finance increased by 6% as a result of increased activity, Operating profit was down 42%, partly reflecting the sale of Global particularly in Asia.
Merchant Services GMS which completed on 30 November 2010.
Adjusting for the disposal, operating profit decreased 32%, driven by a x The restructuring in 2012 led to a reduction in activities undertaken decrease in income and an impairment provision on a single name in in the division, which contributed to a decline in income.
Expenses declined by 215 million, reflecting planned restructuring Excluding GMS income of 451, income was 10% lower despite the initiatives following the formation of the International Banking division.
success of deposit-gathering initiatives, as customer deposits increased Savings were achieved through headcount reduction, run-off of 1 billion in a competitive environment.
discontinued businesses and a resulting decrease in infrastructure support costs.
Revenue-linked expenses also fell in line with the Excluding GMS expenses of 244 million, expenses decreased by 4 decrease in income.
million, reflecting business improvement initiatives and investment in technology and support infrastructure.
Impairment losses decreased by 57 million with the non-repeat of a single name impairment.
Impairment losses increased to 168 million compared with 86 million in 2010 reflecting a single name impairment.
Third party assets declined by 24%, with targeted reductions in the lending portfolio following a strategic reduction in assets.
77 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 78 Business review continued Ulster Bank 2012 2011 2010 m m m Net interest income 649 736 839 Net fees and commissions 145 142 156 Other non-interest income 51 69 58 Non-interest income 196 211 214 Total income 845 947 1,053 Direct expenses - staff 211 221 237 - other 49 67 74 Indirect expenses 261 259 264 521 547 575 Operating profit before impairment losses 324 400 478 Impairment losses 1,364 1,384 1,161 Operating loss 1,040 984 683 Analysis of income by business Corporate 360 435 521 Retail 360 428 465 Other 125 84 67 Total income 845 947 1,053 Analysis of impairments by sector Mortgages 646 570 294 Corporate - property 276 324 375 - other corporate 389 434 444 Other lending 53 56 48 Total impairment losses 1,364 1,384 1,161 Loan impairment charge as % of gross customer loans and advances excluding reverse repurchase agreements by sector Mortgages 3.4% 2.9% 1.4% Corporate - property 6.4% 6.8% 6.9% - other corporate 5.0% 5.6% 4.9% Other lending 3.8% 3.5% 3.7% Total 4.2% 4.1% 3.1% Performance ratios Return on equity 1 21.8% 22.8% 16.8% Net interest margin 1.88% 1.87% 2.03% Cost:income ratio 62% 58% 55% Note: 1 Divisional return on equity is based on divisional operating loss after tax divided by average notional equity based on 10% of the monthly average of divisional RWAs, adjusted for capital deductions.
78 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 79 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 2011 2010 bn bn bn Capital and balance sheet Loans and advances to customers gross - mortgages 19.2 20.0 21.2 - corporate - property 4.3 4.8 5.4 - other corporate 7.8 7.7 9.0 - other lending 1.3 1.6 1.3 32.6 34.1 36.9 Loan impairment provisions 3.9 2.7 1.6 Net loans and advances to customers 28.7 31.4 35.3 Risk elements in lending - mortgages 3.1 2.2 1.5 - corporate - property 1.9 1.3 0.7 - other corporate 2.3 1.8 1.2 - other lending 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total risk elements in lending 7.5 5.5 3.6 Provision coverage 1 52% 50% 45% Customer deposits 22.1 21.8 23.1 Loan:deposit ratio excluding repos 130% 143% 152% Risk-weighted assets 36.1 36.3 31.6 Spot exchange rate - 1.227 1.196 1.160 Note: 1 Provision coverage percentage represents loan impairment provisions as a percentage of risk elements in lending.
The challenging macroeconomic environment across the island of Ireland While impairment levels remained elevated during 2012, net interest had a significant impact on Ulster Banks financial performance for 2012. margin and expense management improved.
Further progress was made There were some emerging signs of improvement in the Republic of on Ulster Banks deposit gathering strategy with customer deposit Ireland economy during Q4 2012, most notably in the availability of balances increasing by 7% on a constant currency basis in Q4 2012, institutional funding, some stabilisation of residential property prices and driving a significant reduction in the loan to deposit ratio.
continued economic growth, albeit modest.
Following the Group technology incident in June 2012, Ulster Bank made significant efforts to help customers who were affected, extending branch hours, tripling call centre staff and providing full redress.
79 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 80 Business review continued Ulster Bank continued 2011 compared with 2010 2012 compared with 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses decreased by 78 million in Operating loss increased by 56 million primarily reflecting a reduction in 2011 with lower income partially mitigated by cost savings.
Impairment income driven by lower interest earning asset volumes.
losses of 1,384 million increased by 19% from 2010 resulting in an operating loss of 984 million, 44% higher than 2010.
Total expenses fell by 26 million, reflecting the benefits of cost saving initiatives.
Income fell by 10% driven by a contracting performing loan book coupled with higher funding costs.
Loans and advances to customers decreased Impairment losses remained elevated, as weak underlying credit metrics by 8% during 2011. prevailed.
Falling asset values throughout most of 2012 and high levels of unemployment coupled with weak domestic demand continued to Expenses fell by 5% reflecting tight management of the cost base across depress the property market.
The impairment charge for 2012 was driven the business.
by a combination of new defaulting customers and deteriorating security Impairment losses increased by 19% largely reflecting the deterioration in values.
Risk elements in lending increased by 2 billion during the year credit metrics on the mortgage portfolio driven by a combination of higher reflecting continued difficult conditions in both the commercial and debt flow and further fall in asset prices.
Despite intense competition, retail and small business deposit balances The loan to deposit ratio improved from 143% to 130%, driven by a have grown strongly throughout 2011, driven by the benefits of a focused combination of deposit growth and a decrease in the loan book.
However, total customer deposit balances fell constant currency, the loan book decreased by 2% as a result of natural by 6% largely driven by the outflow of wholesale customer balances due amortisation and limited new lending due to low levels of market demand.
Retail and SME deposits increased by 8%: however, this was partly offset by outflows of wholesale balances driven by market volatility and the Risk-weighted assets increased by 15% in 2011 reflecting the impact of a rating downgrade in the second half of 2011. deterioration in credit risk metrics.
2 Excludes litigation settlement and net gain on sale of Visa B shares in 2012.
In the first quarter of 2012, RBS Citizens implemented five strategic Consumer Banking further improved and expanded its distribution priorities to sharpen the divisions back-to-basics strategy.
The strategy is channels and product capabilities including the roll-out of intelligent founded on the belief that building an engaged workforce which is deposit machines and the on-going build out of its mortgage capabilities, focused on the customer experience and on being their primary banking reaching the top 20 nationally for mortgage originations in 2012.
The partner, with an embedded culture of risk management, will position the business made enhancements to its mobile banking services and franchise to deliver financial results consistent with a top performing subsequently its apps for both iPhone and Android were rated the best regional bank.
integrated apps in the industry based on an analysis of consumer ratings conducted by Javelin Strategy & Research.
Efforts in both the Consumer and Commercial businesses throughout 2012 were aligned with those priorities and our customers have In 2012, Commercial Banking responded to client feedback, introducing acknowledged our efforts.
According to a 2012 survey conducted by its own core Client Commitments and developing a new Commercial American Banker, RBS Citizens was ranked in the top ten of US banks Client on-boarding process to improve the way clients are welcomed to for corporate reputation, an improvement of eight places from 2011.
Core Customer Commitments were implemented in Consumer Bankings Commercial Banking took further significant steps towards strengthening branch network at the end of last year.
Early indications show progress its customer proposition with a more streamlined, efficient and integrated towards the Commitments aim to enhance customer experience: service and product offering by integrating the Treasury Solutions, Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Derivatives functions into x At the end of 2012, 77% of customers surveyed externally were Commercial Banking.
completely satisfied or very satisfied, compared with the peer average of 71%.
The business made good progress towards expanding its capital markets capabilities.
At the end of 2012, RBS Citizens ranked #4 in the new x RBS Citizens net promoter score, a measure of how likely capital markets business for middle market customers within the footprint, customers are to recommend the bank, increased to 20% over the and ranked in the top ten nationally.
course of 2012 and was over ten percentage points above the peer average.
82 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 83 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 compared with 2011 2011 compared with 2010 US Retail & Commercial posted an operating profit of 754 million Operating profit increased to 537 million $860 million from 349 million $1,196 million, up 217 million $336 million, or 40%, from 2011.
$540 million, an increase of 188 million $320 million, or 54%.
Excluding the 88 million $138 million litigation settlement in Q1 2012 Excluding a credit of 73 million $113 million related to changes to the and the 39 million $62 million net gain on the sale of Visa B shares in defined benefit plan in Q2 2010, operating profit increased 261 million Q2 2012, operating profit was up 266 million $412 million, or 50%, $433 million, or 95%, substantially driven by lower impairments and largely reflecting lower impairment losses due to an improved credit improved income.
The macroeconomic operating environment remained challenging, with Net interest income was up 48 million $39 million, or 3%, driven by low rates, high unemployment, a soft housing market, sluggish consumer targeted commercial loan growth, deposit pricing discipline and lower activity and the continuing impact of legislative changes including the funding costs.
This was partially offset by consumer loan run-off and Durbin Amendment in the Dodd-Frank Act which became effective on 1 lower asset yields reflecting prevailing economic conditions.
Non-interest income was up 6 million.
In US dollar terms non-interest The Durbin Amendment lowers the allowable interchange on debit income was down $11 million, or 1%, reflecting a decline in debit card transactions to $0.23-$0.24 per transaction.
The current annualised fees as a result of the Durbin Amendment legislation and lower securities impact of the Durbin Amendment is estimated at 94 million $150 gains and deposit fees.
This was largely offset by strong mortgage million.
banking fees of 69 million $109 million, up 71%, and the 47 million $75 million gross gain on the sale of Visa B shares.
Net interest income was down 2 million.
In US dollar terms, net interest income increased by $108 million, or 4%.
Net interest margin improved Gross loans and advances to customers were down 0.3 billion.
In US by 24 basis points to 3.06% reflecting changes in deposit mix, continued dollar terms loans and advances to customers were up $3.1 billion, or discipline around deposit pricing and the positive impact from the balance 4%, due to strong growth in commercial loan volumes.
sheet restructuring programme carried out during Q3 2010 combined with strong commercial loan growth, partially offset by run-off of consumer Customer deposits decreased by 1% as a result of movements in foreign loans.
exchange rates partially offset by strong growth achieved in checking balances.
Consumer checking balances fell by 1% while small business Non-interest income was down 23 million.
In US dollar terms, non checking balances grew by 4% over the year.
interest income increase by $31 million, or 2%.
The increase was primarily driven by higher account and transaction fees, partially offset by Excluding the 88 million $138 million litigation settlement, relating to a the impact of legislative changes on debit card and deposit fees.
class action lawsuit regarding the way overdraft fees were assessed on customer accounts prior to 2010, and the 8 million $13 million litigation Excluding the defined benefit plan credit of 73 million $113 million in reserve associated with the sale of Visa B shares, and a one-off 21 Q2 2010, total expenses were down 93 million $16 million, 4%, due to million $33 million pension gain in Q4 2012, total expenses were down a number of factors including lower Federal Deposit Insurance 1%, reflecting lower loan collection costs and the elimination of the Corporation FDIC deposit insurance levies, and lower litigation and Everyday Points rewards programme for consumer debit card customers, marketing costs, partially offset by higher regulatory costs.
partially offset by higher operational losses.
Impairment losses declined by 193 million $278 million, or 37%, largely During the year, RBS Citizens offered former employees a one-time reflecting an improved credit environment slightly offset by higher opportunity to receive the value of future pension benefits as a single impairments related to securities.
Loan impairments as a percentage of lump sum payment.
The transaction allowed RBS Citizens to partially fideloans and advances improved to 0.5% from 1.0%.
risk its pension plan and future liability under the plan.
A strong participant take-up rate of 60% enabled RBS Citizens to reduce its Customer deposits were up 1% with particularly strong growth achieved pension liability by 17% and recognise a 21 million $33 million in checking balances.
Consumer checking balances grew by 6%, while accounting gain.
small business checking balances grew by 5% over the year.
Impairment losses were down 235 million $379 million, or 72%, reflecting an improved credit environment and lower impairments on securities.
Loan impairments improved by 168 million $266 million driven primarily by commercial loan impairments.
Impairments as a percentage of loans and advances fell to 20 basis points.
83 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 84 Business review continued Markets 2012 2011 2010 m m m Net interest income from banking activities 113 79 605 Net fees and commissions receivable 318 603 731 Income from trading activities 3,912 3,602 4,785 Other operating income net of related funding costs 140 131 112 Non-interest income 4,370 4,336 5,628 Total income 4,483 4,415 6,233 Direct expenses - staff 1,453 1,963 2,082 - other 721 746 663 Indirect expenses 763 769 699 2,937 3,478 3,444 Operating profit before impairment losses 1,546 937 2,789 Impairment losses 37 38 65 Operating profit 1,509 899 2,724 Of which: Ongoing businesses 1,564 943 2,743 Run-off businesses 55 44 19 Analysis of income by product Rates 2,006 1,474 2,312 Currencies 757 1,060 1,047 Asset backed products ABP 1,318 1,254 1,479 Credit markets 862 616 1,350 Investor products and equity derivatives 224 593 672 Total income ongoing businesses 5,167 4,997 6,860 Inter-divisional revenue share 691 767 883 Run-off businesses 7 185 256 Total income 4,483 4,415 6,233 Memo - fixed income and currencies Rate currencies ABP credit markets 4,943 4,404 6,188 Less: primary credit markets 568 688 863 Total fixed income and currencies 4,375 3,716 5,325 Performance ratios ongoing businesses Return on equity 1 10.0% 6.1% 19.1% Cost:income ratio 64% 77% 53% Compensation ratio 2 32% 42% 31% Notes: 1 Divisional return on equity is based on divisional operating profit after tax divided by average notional equity based on 10% of the monthly average of divisional RWAs, adjusted for capital deductions, for the ongoing businesses.
2 Compensation ratio is based on staff costs as a percentage of total income.
84 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 85 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 2011 2010 bn bn bn Capital and balance sheet ongoing businesses Loans and advances to customers gross 29.8 31.5 24.4 Loan impairment provisions 0.2 0.2 0.2 Net loans and advances to customers 29.6 31.3 24.2 Loans and advances to banks 16.6 29.9 44.4 Reverse repos 103.8 100.4 94.7 Securities 92.4 108.1 115.8 Cash and eligible bills 30.2 28.1 38.8 Other 11.8 14.8 20.1 Total third party assets excluding derivatives mark-to-market 284.4 312.6 338.0 Net derivative assets after netting 21.9 37.0 37.4 Provision coverage 1 77% 75% 86% Customer deposits excluding repos 26.3 36.8 37.4 Bank deposits excluding repos 45.4 48.2 50.6 Risk-weighted assets 101.3 120.3 110.3 Run-off businesses 2 m m m Total income 7 185 256 Direct expenses 62 229 275 Operating loss 55 44 19 Balance sheet - run-off businesses 2 bn bn bn Total third party assets excluding derivatives mark-to-market 0.1 1.3 2.4 Notes: 1 Provision coverage percentage represents loan impairment provisions as a percentage of risk elements in lending.
2 Run-off businesses consist of the exited cash equities, corporate banking and equity capital market operations.
During 2012, the economic environment was dominated by weak the remaining Investor Products and Equity Derivatives IPED operation prospects for global growth and the uncertain outlook for Eurozone was moved into Rates to form a Derivative Product Solutions DPS sovereign debt.
However, positive central bank activity and a more stable business.
In addition, Markets has also developed a range of measures credit environment resulted in marginally improved trading opportunities.
to enhance its culture and control environment, focusing on improving both supervision and behaviours.
Taken together, these actions reinforce Against this backdrop, the division continued to focus on its strengths and Markets commitment to put the client at the centre of everything we do client offering.
In January 2012 RBS announced the creation of the and to focus resources on meeting client needs.
Markets division and, at the same time, the exit of the cash equities and mergers & acquisitions businesses.
Following further review in Q4 2012, 85 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 86 Business review continued Markets continued The reduction in third party assets reflected management action to 2012 compared with 2011 optimise and fide-risk the balance sheet, consistent with previously Operating profit increased by 68% reflecting 2% growth in income and disclosed medium-term objectives.
20% decrease in direct expenses, most notably through a reduction in staff costs.
The division reduced risk-weighted assets, successfully focusing on lowering risk and enhancing models whilst managing the requirement for Rates benefited from a strong trading performance, while losses incurred greater prudence in the regulatory environment.
in managing counterparty exposures during the third quarter of 2011 were not repeated during 2012.
Revenues for the year were up 36% to Not reflected in Markets operating results in 2012 were the following 2.0 billion.
items: 381 million for regulatory fines: 350 million for its share of the provision for interest rate swap redress: and approximately 700 million Currencies volumes were weak across the industry, although the Spot FX in restructuring costs associated with the strategic changes that took business minimised the impact on revenue.
Options income was limited place during 2012. by further Eurozone uncertainty.
2011 compared with 2010 Asset Backed Products continued to perform strongly as markets were Operating profit fell by 67%, from 2,724 million for 2010 to 899 million sustained throughout the year by investors search for yield.
Revenues for 2011, driven by a 29% decrease in revenue.
The year was for the year were 1.3 billion, up 5% from a strong performance of 1.25 characterised by volatile and deteriorating credit markets, especially billion in 2011. during the second half of the year when the European sovereign debt crisis drove a sharp widening in credit spreads.
A 40% increase in Credit Markets revenue to 862 million was driven by Flow Credit which, as a result of improved risk management and more Due to this deterioration in the markets both the Rates and Credit benign market conditions, recorded good profitability compared with a businesses suffered significantly, and income from trading activities fell loss in 2011.
This was partially offset by weaker earnings from credit from 4,785 million in 2010 to 3,602 million in 2011.
volatility increased risk aversion amongst clients and limited opportunities for revenue generation in the secondary markets.
The 62% decrease in IPED followed significantly weaker client volumes in key markets.
The business has been restructured and rationalised.
It Total costs increased by 1% due to increased investment costs in 2011, will be reported within Rates going forward.
which included a programme to meet new regulatory requirements.
The compensation ratio in Markets was 42%, driven by fixed salary costs and The division focused on controlling costs throughout 2012, driving total prior year deferred awards.
Lower staff expenses, down 26%, reflect lower headcount and lower levels of variable compensation, including Variable compensation accrued in the first half of the year were reduced reductions and clawbacks following the Groups LIBOR settlements in the second half of the year, leaving the former GBM 2011 variable reached on 6 February 2013, with the compensation ratio falling from compensation awards 58% lower than 2010.
Headcount reductions totalled 2,700 in the year, including that resulting from the exit of businesses announced in January.
Other Third party assets fell from 338.0 billion in 2010 to 312.6 billion in 2011 expenses fell by 3% as rigorous controls on discretionary expenditure as a result of lower levels of activity and careful management of balance and the exiting of product areas continued to take effect, partially offset sheet exposures.
A 9% increase in risk-weighted assets reflected the impact of significant regulatory changes, with a 21 billion uplift as a result of CRD III, largely offset by the impact of the divisions focus on risk management.
86 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 87 RBS GROUP 2012 Direct Line Group 2012 2011 2010 m m m Earned premiums 4,044 4,221 4,459 Reinsurers' share 326 252 148 Net premium income 3,718 3,969 4,311 Fees and commissions 430 400 410 Instalment income 126 138 159 Other income 60 100 179 Total income 3,474 3,807 4,239 Net claims 2,427 2,772 3,932 Underwriting profit 1,047 1,035 307 Staff expenses 338 288 287 Other expenses 387 333 325 Total direct expenses 725 621 612 Indirect expenses 124 225 267 849 846 879 Technical result 198 189 572 Investment income 243 265 277 Operating profit loss 441 454 295 Analysis of income by product Personal lines motor excluding broker - own brands 1,631 1,742 1,825 - partnerships 124 209 343 Personal lines home excluding broker - own brands 462 471 474 - partnerships 364 363 388 Personal lines rescue and other excluding broker - own brands 183 181 192 - partnerships 178 125 155 Commercial 322 315 314 International 315 340 316 Other 1 105 61 232 Total income 3,474 3,807 4,239 In-force policies 000s Personal lines motor excluding broker - own brands 3,714 3,787 4,162 - partnerships 336 320 645 Personal lines home excluding broker - own brands 1,754 1,811 1,797 - partnerships 2,485 2,497 2,530 Personal lines rescue and other excluding broker - own brands 1,803 1,844 1,966 - partnerships 7,628 7,307 7,497 Commercial 466 422 352 International 1,462 1,387 1,082 Other 1 50 1 644 Total in-force policies 2 19,698 19,376 20,675 87 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 88 Business review continued Direct Line Group continued 2012 2011 2010 m m m Gross written premium Personal lines motor excluding broker - own brand 1,494 1,584 1,647 - partnerships 136 137 257 Personal lines home excluding broker - own brand 455 474 478 - partnerships 534 549 556 Personal lines rescue and other excluding broker - own brand 177 174 178 - partnerships 176 174 159 Commercial 436 435 397 International 557 570 425 Other 1 1 1 201 Total gross written premium 3,966 4,098 4,298 Performance ratios Return on tangible equity 3 11.7% 10.3% 6.8% Loss ratio 4 65% 70% 91% Commission ratio 5 12% 10% 10% Expense ratio 6 23% 21% 20% Combined operating ratio 7 100% 101% 121% Balance sheet Total insurance reserves m 8 8,066 7,284 7,643 Notes: 1 Other predominately consists of the personal lines broker business and from 2012 businesses previously reported in Non-Core.
2 Total in-force policies include travel and creditor policies sold through RBS Group.
These comprise travel policies included in bank accounts e. g. Royalties Gold Account, and creditor policies sold with bank products including mortgage, loan and card payment protection.
3 Return on tangible equity is based on annualised operating profit after tax divided by average tangible equity adjusted for dividend payments.
4 Loss ratio is based on net claims divided by net premium income.
5 Commission ratio is based on fees and commissions divided by net premium income.
6 Expense ratio is based on expenses divided by net premium income.
7 Combined operating ratio is the sum of the loss, commission and expense ratios.
8 Consists of general and life insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserves and liability adequacy reserve.
In October 2012, the Group completed the successful initial public Direct Line Group made further progress in executing its strategic plan offering of Direct Line Group, selling 520.8 million of its existing ordinary with developments made in its pricing capability through the shares.
This represented 34.7% of the issued share capital, generating implementation of a new pricing model and rating engine across the gross proceeds of 911 million.
The new claims management system introduced during 2011 is now operational for the majority of new Motor During 2012, Direct Line Group made good progress despite competitive and Home claims.
Benefits, including shorter settlement times for market conditions.
The operating profit of 441 million was down 13 customers and improved legal case management, are being realised as a million compared with the previous year driven by lower investment result of the improved claims process.
returns, partially offset by an improved underwriting result.
During 2012, a number of partnership agreements, including Nationwide A combined operating ratio COR of 100% represented an improvement Building Society and Sainsburys Bank, were either renewed or extended.
of 100 basis points compared with 2011 driven predominantly by an In addition, Direct Line Group signed an arms length, five year improved loss ratio.
The full year 2012 result included Home weather distribution agreement with RBS Group for the continued provision, post event claims of approximately 105 million versus 20 million in 2011, divestment, of general insurance products to UK Retail customers.
which was more than offset by 390 million of releases from reserves held against prior year claims across the portfolio.
Of these releases, 68 Following launch on comparethemarket.
com, Churchill and Privilege million related to the run-off business where the impact on the income motor and home products are now available on all four major price statement is broadly neutral.
For Direct Line Groups ongoing operations, comparison websites in the UK.
This reinforces Direct Line Groups multithe current year attritional loss ratio improved by 1.6 percentage points channel distribution strategy.
which reflects actions taken to improve risk selection and the implementation of the claims transformation programme.
In 2012 all categories within Direct Line Group made an operating profit.
88 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 89 RBS GROUP 2012 Direct Line Group continues to focus on reducing operational costs, In accordance with IFRS 5, Direct Line Group has been recognised as a targeting the delivery of gross annual cost savings of 100 million in 2014 discontinued operation with consequent changes to the presentation of through overall improvements in operational efficiency including claims comparative information.
The assets and liabilities relating to Direct Line handling, continued efforts to simplify internal structures and better Group are included in Disposal groups as of 31 December 2012.
The managing customer acquisition costs.
Steps announced during the Group has written down its investment in Direct Line Group at 31 second half of the year included measures to reduce costs in central December 2012 to 216 pence per share, the market value on that date, functions as well as the reduction of around 70 senior leadership roles which resulted in a 394 million goodwill write-down.
A full year preliminary statement of results for Direct Line Insurance Roll-out of a new e-trading platform in Commercial began in Q3 2012 and Group plc is available on the company website.
A full Annual Report and was launched in January 2013.
This new platform has been developed to Accounts will be available in March 2013. aid with internal cost efficiency and provide new routes to market as well as to significantly improve the interface with brokers and customers.
2012 compared with 2011 Operating profit of 441 million was 13 million, or 3% lower than 2011 International consolidated its direct market position in Italy and Germany as an improved technical result was more than offset by 22 million lower with a total of 1.5 million in-force policies at the end of 2012.
written premium for 2012 was up 4% in local currency on 2011 and followed a period of strong growth in 2010 and 2011.
Gross written premium of 3,966 million was 3% lower, driven by the impact of fide-risking in previous years and changes in the mix of the Direct Line Group further improved its capital efficiency following a portfolio in Motor together with competitive market conditions in Home.
number of initiatives including the consolidation of four underwriting International was also down reflecting adverse exchange rate entities into one.
The combined entity, U K Insurance Limited, received movements.
inaugural credit ratings of A from Standard and Poors and A2 from Moodys.
Direct Line Group also issued 500 million of Tier 2 debt and Total income of 3,474 million was 333 million, or 9% lower than prior paid 1 billion of dividends to RBS Group.
year due to flow through of lower written premiums, increased commissions payable relating to business previously reported within NonDirect Line Group operates in an industry that is under a significant Core, the cessation of Tesco Personal Finance tariff income and lower amount of scrutiny and is preparing for substantial regulatory change.
Direct Line Group is actively engaging with major stakeholders throughout the ongoing debates surrounding referral and legal fees, the Net claims of 2,427 million were 345 million, or 12% lower than 2011 increase in whiplash claims and the implementation of the gender reflecting lower exposure, higher releases of reserves from prior years directive in order to help deliver the best possible outcome for its and improved claims experience.
The 2012 result includes approximately customers and shareholders.
105 million of Home weather event claims, significantly more than 20 million in 2011 under benign weather conditions.
Separation and divestment update From 1 July 2012, Direct Line Group has operated on a substantially Expenses of 849 million were broadly flat.
Staff expenses were 50 standalone basis with independent corporate functions and governance million, or 17% higher partly reflecting the transfer of some head office following the successful implementation of a comprehensive programme functions costs to Direct Line Group ahead of separation from RBS of separation initiatives.
During 2012, these included launching a new Group, together with additional staff recruited to provide services corporate identity and the Direct Line Group Board became fully previously provided by RBS Group.
compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code following further nonexecutive director appointments.
New contracts of employment have Investment income of 243 million was 22 million lower, primarily as a been agreed and issued to staff, independent HR systems have been result of 27 million financing costs relating to the Tier 2 debt issued in implemented and an arms length transitional services agreement has April 2012 and lower reinvestment rates during 2012.
This was mostly been reached with RBS Group for residual services.
In January 2013, it offset by higher realised gains arising from portfolio management was announced that Capgemini would design, deliver and operate Direct initiatives, including those arising from business previously reported in Line Groups IT infrastructure.
The Group sold the first tranche of ordinary shares representing 34.7% of Direct Line Groups reported Return on Tangible Equity was 11.7% in the share capital of Direct Line Group in October 2012 via an Initial Public 2012.
On a pro forma basis, assuming the capital management initiatives Offering.
This is consistent with the Groups plan to cede control of Direct had taken place prior to the start of the year, the Return on Tangible Line Group by the end of 2013 and a step toward complete disposal by Equity would have been 13.2%.
the end of 2014, as required by the European Commission.
89 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 90 Business review continued Direct Line Group continued Net claims fell 1,160 million, 30%, due to the non recurrence of bodily 2011 compared with 2010 injury reserve strengthening in 2010, actions taken to fide-risk the book, Operating profit rose by 749 million in 2011, principally due to the non the exit of certain business segments and more benign weather in 2011. repeat of the bodily injury reserve strengthening in 2010, fide-risking of the Total direct expenses rose by 9 million principally driven by project motor book, exit of certain business segments and more benign weather activity to support the transformation plan.
Investment income fell 12 million, 4%, reflecting decreased yields on the Gross written premium fell 200 million, 5%, as the business continued to portfolio in 2011, partially offset by higher realised gains.
drive improved profitability through reduced volumes in unattractive segments.
This was partially offset by growth in Commercial and At the end of 2011, Direct Line Group's investment portfolios comprised International.
primarily cash, gilts and investment grade bonds.
Within the UK portfolio, 8.9 billion, and the International portfolio, 827 million, there was no Total income fell 432 million, 10%, following the exit of personal lines exposure to sovereign debt issued by Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece or broker, a decline in premiums reflecting reduced motor volumes and Spain.
higher reinsurance costs to reduce the risk profile of the book.
Total in-force policies fell 6% in the year due to planned fide-risking of the motor book and the exiting of certain other segments and partnerships, including personal lines broker.
90 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 91 RBS GROUP 2012 Central items 2012 2011 2010 m m m Central items not allocated 143 191 630 Funding and operating costs have been allocated to operating divisions, based on direct service usage, requirement for market funding and other appropriate drivers where services span more than one division.
Residual unallocated items relate to volatile corporate items that do not naturally reside within a division.
2012 compared with 2011 2011 compared with 2010 Central items not allocated represented a credit of 143 million compared Central items not allocated represented a credit of 191 million in 2011, a with 191 million in 2011. decline of 439 million compared with 2010.
Significant central costs included the Group technology incident cost of 2010 benefited from c. 300 million of accounting gains on hybrid 175 million, a 160 million provision for various litigation and legacy securities, c. 150 million of which was amortised during 2011. conduct issues, as well as unallocated Treasury costs of circa 390 million.
VAT recoveries of 85 million and Group Pension fund A VAT recovery of 176 million in 2010 compared with 85 million adjustment of circa 50 million in 2011 were not repeated.
Offsetting these costs, profits on Group Treasury available-for-sale bond disposals totalled 880 million compared with 516 million in 2011, as active management of the liquid assets portfolio as well as favourable market conditions enabled the Group to crystallise gains on some holdings.
91 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 92 Business review continued Non-Core 2012 2011 2010 m m m Net interest income 346 863 1,749 Net fees and commissions 105 38 471 Loss from trading activities 654 721 31 Insurance net premium income 286 702 Other operating income - rental income 421 743 752 - other 1 70 55 889 Non-interest income 58 325 1,005 Total income 288 1,188 2,754 Direct expenses - staff 272 375 731 - operating lease depreciation 246 347 452 - other 163 256 573 Indirect expenses 263 317 500 944 1,295 2,256 Operating loss profit before insurance net claims and impairment losses 656 107 498 Insurance net claims 195 737 Impairment losses 2,223 3,919 5,476 Operating loss 2,879 4,221 5,715 Analysis of income loss by business Banking & portfolios 40 1,465 1,463 International businesses 250 411 778 Markets 2 688 513 Total income 288 1,188 2,754 Loss from trading activities Monoline exposures 205 670 5 Credit derivative product companies 205 85 139 Asset-backed products 2 101 29 235 Other credit exotics 28 175 77 Equities 2 11 17 Banking book hedges 38 1 82 Other 277 192 100 654 721 31 Impairment losses Banking & portfolios 2,346 3,833 5,328 International businesses 56 82 200 Markets 179 4 52 Total impairment losses 2,223 3,919 5,476 Loan impairment charge as % of gross customer loans and advances excluding reverse repurchase agreements 3 Banking & portfolios 4.2% 4.9% 5.0% International businesses 5.1% 3.7% 4.4% Markets 3.0% 0.2% Total 4.2% 4.8% 4.9% Notes: 1 Includes losses on disposals of 14 million for 2012 2011 - 127 million: 2010 - 504 million.
2 Asset-backed products include super asset backed structures and other asset-backed products.
92 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 93 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 2011 2010 Performance ratios Net interest margin 0.31% 0.63% 1.02% Cost:income ratio nm 109% 82% Adjusted cost:income ratio 1 nm 130% 112% nm not meaningful bn bn bn Capital and balance sheet Loans and advances to customers gross 2 55.4 79.4 108.4 Loan impairment provisions 11.2 11.5 10.3 Net loans and advances to customers 44.2 67.9 98.1 Total third party assets excluding derivatives 57.4 93.7 137.9 Total third party assets including derivatives 63.4 104.7 153.9 Risk elements in lending 2 21.4 24.0 23.4 Provision coverage 3 52% 48% 44% Customer deposits 2 2.7 3.5 6.7 Risk-weighted assets 60.4 93.3 153.7 Gross customer loans and advances Banking & portfolios 54.5 77.3 104.9 International businesses 0.9 2.0 3.5 Markets 0.1 55.4 79.4 108.4 Risk-weighted assets Banking & portfolios 53.3 64.8 83.5 International businesses 2.4 4.1 5.6 Markets 4.7 24.4 64.6 60.4 93.3 153.7 Third party assets excluding derivatives Banking & portfolios 51.1 81.3 113.9 International businesses 1.2 2.9 4.4 Markets 5.1 9.5 19.6 57.4 93.7 137.9 31 December Disposals Drawings Foreign 31 December 2011 Run-off restructuring roll overs Impairments exchange 2012 Third party assets excluding derivatives bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Commercial real estate 31.5 5.0 2.2 0.1 1.7 0.6 22.1 Corporate 42.2 7.3 9.8 1.6 0.4 0.8 25.5 SME 2.1 1.0 0.3 0.2 1.0 Retail 6.1 0.8 1.9 0.1 0.2 0.1 3.2 Other 1.9 1.3 0.1 0.5 Markets 9.8 1.0 3.9 0.3 0.1 0.2 5.1 Total excluding derivatives 93.6 16.4 18.1 2.3 2.2 1.8 57.4 Markets - RBS Sempra Commodities JV 0.1 0.1 Total 4 93.7 16.5 18.1 2.3 2.2 1.8 57.4 Notes: 1 Adjusted cost:income ratio represents operating expenses expressed as a percentage of total income after netting insurance claims against income.
4 Disposals of 0.2 billion have been signed as at 31 December 2012 but are pending completion 2011 - 0.2 billion: 2010 - 12 billion.
93 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 94 Business review continued Non-Core continued 2012 2011 2010 Commercial real estate third party assets bn bn bn UK excluding NI 8.9 11.4 16.7 Ireland ROI and NI 5.8 7.7 10.2 Spain 1.4 1.8 1.3 Rest of Europe 4.9 7.9 9.4 USA 0.9 2.2 3.6 RoW 0.2 0.5 1.4 Total excluding derivatives 22.1 31.5 42.6 2012 2011 2010 Impairment losses by donating division and sector m m m UK Retail Mortgages 5 5 Personal 4 27 8 Total UK Retail 4 22 13 UK Corporate Manufacturing and infrastructure 19 76 26 Property and construction 88 224 437 Transport 16 52 3 Financial institutions 38 5 69 Lombard 48 75 129 Other 107 96 166 Total UK Corporate 240 528 830 Ulster Bank Mortgages 42 Commercial real estate - investment 288 609 630 - development 611 1,552 1,759 Other corporate 77 173 251 Other EMEA 7 15 52 Total Ulster Bank 983 2,349 2,734 US Retail & Commercial Auto and consumer 49 58 82 Cards 1 9 23 SBO home equity 130 201 277 Residential mortgages 21 16 4 Commercial real estate 12 40 185 Commercial and other 12 3 17 Total US Retail & Commercial 177 303 588 Markets Manufacturing and infrastructure 3 57 290 Property and construction 623 752 1,296 Transport 199 3 33 Telecoms, media and technology 32 68 9 Banking and financial institutions 58 98 196 Other 18 19 14 Total Markets 817 757 1,258 Other Wealth 1 1 51 Central items 1 3 2 Total Other 2 4 53 Total impairment losses 2,223 3,919 5,476 94 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 95 RBS GROUP 2012 Gross loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repurchase agreements by donating 2012 2011 2010 division and sector m m m UK Retail Mortgages 1.4 1.6 Personal 0.1 0.4 Total UK Retail 1.5 2.0 UK Corporate Manufacturing and infrastructure 0.1 0.1 0.3 Property and construction 3.6 5.9 11.4 Transport 3.8 4.5 5.4 Financial institutions 0.2 0.6 0.8 Lombard 0.4 1.0 1.7 Other 4.2 7.5 7.4 Total UK Corporate 12.3 19.6 27.0 Ulster Bank Commercial real estate - investment 3.4 3.9 4.0 - development 7.6 8.5 8.4 Other corporate 1.6 1.6 2.2 Other EMEA 0.3 0.4 0.4 Total Ulster Bank 12.9 14.4 15.0 US Retail & Commercial Auto and consumer 0.6 0.8 2.6 Cards 0.1 0.1 SBO home equity 2.0 2.5 3.2 Residential mortgages 0.4 0.6 0.7 Commercial real estate 0.4 1.0 1.5 Commercial and other 0.1 0.4 0.5 Total US Retail & Commercial 3.5 5.4 8.6 Markets Manufacturing and infrastructure 3.9 6.6 8.7 Property and construction 12.3 15.3 19.6 Transport 1.7 3.2 5.5 Telecoms, media and technology 0.4 0.7 0.9 Banking and financial institutions 4.7 5.6 12.0 Other 3.7 7.0 9.3 Total Markets 26.7 38.4 56.0 Other Wealth 0.2 0.4 Direct Line Group 0.2 Central items 0.2 1.0 Total Other 0.4 Gross loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repurchase agreements 55.4 79.3 108.2 95 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 96 Business review continued Non-Core continued 2011 compared with 2010 Non-Core third party assets fell to 57 billion, a reduction of 36 billion, or Operating loss of 4,221 million in 2011 was 1,494 million lower than 39%, during the year and an overall reduction of 200 billion, or 78%, the loss recorded in 2010.
The continued divestment of Non-Core since the division was set up.
This was achieved through a mixture of businesses and portfolios has reduced revenue streams as well as the disposals, run-off and impairments.
By the end of 2012, the Non-Core cost base.
funded balance sheet was under 7% of the Groups funded balance sheet compared with 21% when the division was created.
Non-Core remains on Losses from trading activities increased by 690 million compared with target to reach its third party asset target of c. 40 billion, a reduction of 2010, principally as a result of the disposal of RBS Sempra Commodities approximately 85% of its original portfolio, by the end of 2013. in 2010 and costs incurred as part of the divisions focus on reducing capital intensive trading assets and mitigating future regulatory uplifts in 2012 compared with 2011 risk-weighted assets.
Third party assets declined by 36 billion, or 39%, largely reflecting disposals of 18 billion and run-off of 16 billion.
The disposal of RBS Impairment losses fell by 1,557 million despite ongoing challenges in the Aviation Capital in Q2 2012 contributed c. 5 billion of this reduction.
real estate and Ulster Bank portfolios, reflecting improvements in other asset classes.
Risk-weighted assets were 33 billion lower, principally driven by disposals, run-off and restructuring of existing positions.
Third party assets declined by 44 billion 32% reflecting disposals of 22 billion and run-off of 22 billion.
An operating loss of 2,879 million was 1,342 million lower than 2011, principally due to lower impairments and expenses, partially offset by Risk-weighted assets were 60 billion lower than 2010, principally driven lower net interest income following run-off and disposals.
by significant disposal activity on trading book assets combined with runoff.
Impairment losses fell by 1,696 million to 2,223 million, with 1,366 million of this reduction from the Ulster Bank portfolio and 269 million Headcount declined by 2,200 32% to 4,700 in 2011, largely reflecting from the real estate portfolio.
the divestment activity in relation to Asia, Non-Core Insurance and RBS Sempra Commodities.
Income declined by 900 million as continued divestment and run-off reduced net interest income.
Rental income was lower following the disposal of RBS Aviation Capital in Q2 2012.
Expenses were 351 million lower, driven by reduced headcount and lower operating lease depreciation, principally following the disposal of RBS Aviation Capital.
Headcount declined by 34% to 3,100 reflecting the divestment activity and run-off across the business.
2012 compared with 2011 This was partly offset by an increase in repurchase agreements and Total assets of 1,312.3 billion at 31 December 2012 were down 194.6 stock lending repos, up 4.6 billion, 12%, to 44.3 billion, improving the billion, 13%, compared with 31 December 2011.
This was principally Groups mix of secured and unsecured funding.
driven by a decrease in loans and advances to banks and customers led by Non-Core disposals and run off, decreases in debt securities and the Customer accounts increased 18.3 billion, 4%, to 521.3 billion.
Within continuing reduction in the mark-to-market value of derivatives.
this, repos decreased 0.8 billion, 1%, to 88.0 billion.
Excluding repos, customer deposits were up 19.1 billion, 5%, at 433.2 billion, primarily Loans and advances to banks decreased by 19.4 billion, 23%, to 64.0 reflecting the transfer from disposal groups of 21.5 billion of customer billion.
Excluding reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing accounts relating to the UK branch-based businesses together with reverse repos, down 4.7 billion, 12%, to 34.8 billion, bank placings underlying increases in UK Retail, 6.0 billion, International Banking, 2.0 declined 14.7 billion, 34%, to 29.2 billion.
million, US Retail & Commercial, 1.8 billion, UK Corporate, 0.8 billion, Ulster Bank, 0.7 billion and Wealth, 0.7 billion.
This was partially offset Loans and advances to customers declined 15.5 billion, 3%, to 500.1 by decreases in Markets, 9.7 billion, and Non-Core, 0.9 billion, together billion.
Within this, reverse repurchase agreements were up 8.6 billion, with exchange and other movements 3.8 billion.
Customer lending decreased by 24.0 billion, 5%, to 430.1 billion, or 22.6 billion to 451.2 billion before impairments.
Debt securities in issue decreased 68.0 billion, 42%, to 94.6 billion This reflected reductions in Non-Core of 22.6 billion, along with declines reflecting the maturity of the remaining notes issued under the UK in International Banking, 14.3 billion, UK Corporate, 2.9 billion, Governments Credit Guarantee Scheme, 21.3 billion, the repurchase of Markets, 1.0 billion and Ulster Bank, 0.7 billion, together with the effect bonds and medium term notes as a result of the liability management of exchange rate and other movements, 4.7 billion.
These were partially exercise completed in September 2012, 4.4 billion, and the continuing offset by the transfer from disposal groups of 18.9 billion of customer reduction of commercial paper and medium term notes in issue in line balances relating to the UK branch-based businesses, together with with the Groups strategy.
underlying growth in UK Retail, 2.6 billion, US Retail & Commercial, 1.9 billion and Wealth, 0.2 billion.
Short positions were down 13.4 billion, 33%, to 27.6 billion mirroring decreases in debt securities.
Debt securities were down 51.6 billion, 25%, to 157.4 billion, driven mainly by reductions within Markets and Group Treasury in holdings of Retirement benefit liabilities increased by 1.6 billion, 73%, to 3.9 billion UK and Eurozone government securities and financial institution bonds.
with net actuarial losses of 2.3 billion on the Group's defined benefit pension schemes, primarily arising from significant reductions in the real Settlement balance assets and liabilities decreased 2.0 billion to 5.7 discount rates in the Sterling, Euro and US dollar currency zones.
These billion and 1.6 billion to 5.9 billion respectively reflecting the overall were partially offset by the 0.6 billion excess of employer contributions reduction in the size of the balance sheet.
paid over the current year pension charge.
Movements in the value of derivative assets, down 87.7 billion, 17%, to Insurance liabilities of 6.2 billion relating to Direct Line Group were 441.9 billion, and liabilities, down 89.7 billion, 17%, to 434.3 billion, transferred to liabilities of disposal groups at 31 December 2012. primarily reflect decreases in interest rate and credit derivative contracts, together with the effect of currency movements, with Sterling Subordinated liabilities increased by 0.5 billion, 2% to 26.8 billion, strengthening against both the US dollar and the Euro.
primarily as a result of the net increase in dated loan capital.
Issuances of 1.4 billion and redemptions of 0.3 billion were partly offset by a net Intangible assets decreased 1.3 billion, 9%, to 13.5 billion, primarily as decrease of 0.6 billion arising from the liability management exercise a result of write-down of the Direct Line Group goodwill, 0.4 billion, and completed in March 2012, which consisted of redemptions of 3.4 billion the transfer of the remaining 0.5 billion of goodwill together with 0.2 offset by the issuance of 2.8 billion new loan capital.
billion of other intangible assets to assets of disposal groups at 31 December 2012.
Non-controlling interests increased by 1.1 billion, 88%, to 2.3 billion, predominantly due to the sale of 34.7% of the Groups investment in Property, plant and equipment decreased by 2.1 billion, 18%, to 9.8 Direct Line Group during the fourth quarter.
billion driven largely by the disposal of investment property in Non-Core.
Owners equity decreased by 6.7 billion, 9%, to 68.1 billion, driven by The decrease in assets and liabilities of disposal groups, down 11.4 the 6.0 billion attributable loss for the period together with movements in billion, 45%, to 14.0 billion, and 13.8 billion, 58%, to 10.2 billion foreign exchange reserves, 0.9 billion, the recognition of actuarial losses respectively, primarily reflects the removal of the UK branch-based in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax, businesses from disposal groups following Santanders withdrawal from 1.9 billion, and other reserve movements of 0.2 billion.
Partially the purchase, together with the disposal of RBS Aviation Capital in the offsetting these reductions were gains in available-for-sale reserves, 0.6 second quarter.
These were partly offset by the transfer to disposal billion, and cash flow hedging reserves, 0.8 billion, share capital and groups of Direct Line Group at 31 December 2012. reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes, 0.8 billion and other share issuances of 1.0 billion.
98 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 99 RBS GROUP 2012 2011 compared with 2010 Property, plant and equipment declined 4.7 billion, 28%, to 11.9 billion, Total assets of 1,506.9 billion at 31 December 2011 were up 53.3 primarily as a result of the transfer of RBS Aviation Capitals operating billion, 4%, compared with 31 December 2010.
This principally reflects an lease assets to disposal groups.
increase in cash and balances at central banks and the mark-to-market value of derivatives in Markets, partly offset by decreases in debt Deferred taxation was down 2.5 billion, 39%, to 3.9 billion, largely as a securities and equity shares and the continuing disposal and run-off of result of the utilisation of brought forward tax losses in the UK.
The increase in assets and liabilities of disposal groups reflects the Cash and balances at central banks were up 22.3 billion, 39%, to 79.3 reclassification of the UK branch-based businesses and RBS Aviation billion due to improvements in the Groups structured liquidity position Capital pending their disposal, partly offset by the completion of during 2011. disposals, primarily RBS Sempra Commodities JV and certain Non-Core project finance assets.
Loans and advances to banks decreased by 17.2 billion, 17%, to 83.3 billion.
Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing reverse Deposits by banks increased 10.0 billion, 10%, to 108.8 billion, with repos were down 3.2 billion, 7%, to 39.4 billion and bank placings higher repurchase agreements and stock lending repos, up 6.9 billion, declined 14.0 billion, 24%, to 43.9 billion, primarily as a result of the 21%, to 39.7 billion and higher inter-bank deposits, up 3.1 billion, 5%, reduction in exposure to eurozone banks and lower cash collateral to 69.1 billion.
Customer accounts fell 7.7 billion, 2%, to 503.0 billion.
Within this, Loans and advances to customers were down 39.7 billion, 7%, to repos increased 6.7 billion, 8%, to 88.8 billion.
Within this, reverse repurchase agreements were up 9.0 customer deposits were down 14.4 billion, 3%, to 414.1 billion, billion, 17%, to 61.5 billion.
Customer lending decreased by 48.7 reflecting the transfer to disposal groups of 21.8 billion of customer billion, 10%, to 454.1 billion or 46.9 billion, 9%, to 473.9 billion before accounts relating to the UK branch-based businesses.
This was partly impairment provisions.
This reflected the transfer to disposal groups of offset by the net effect of growth in International Banking, 1.7 billion, UK 19.5 billion of customer balances relating to the UK branch-based Corporate, 1.8 billion, UK Retail, 5.8 billion, US Retail & Commercial, businesses.
There were also planned reductions in Non-Core of 28.1 0.5 billion and Wealth, 1.8 billion, together with exchange rate and billion, together with declines in International Banking, 4.7 billion, UK other movements of 0.5 billion and declines in Markets, 1.1 billion, Corporate, 3.0 billion and Ulster Bank, 2.0 billion, together with the Ulster Bank, 0.8 billion and Non-Core, 2.9 billion.
effect of exchange rate and other movements, 1.9 billion.
These were partially offset by growth in Markets, 6.4 billion, Wealth, 0.8 billion, UK Debt securities in issue were down 55.8billion, 26% to 162.6 billion Retail, 2.3 billion and US Retail & Commercial, 2.8 billion.
driven by reductions in the level of certificates of deposit and commercial paper in Markets and Group Treasury.
Debt securities were down 8.4 billion, 4%, to 209.1 billion driven mainly by a reduction in holdings of government and financial institution bonds in Settlement balances declined 3.5 billion, 32%, to 7.5 billion and short Markets and Group Treasury.
positions were down 2.1 billion, 5%, to 41.0 billion due to decreased customer activity.
Equity shares decreased 7.0 billion, 32%, to 15.2 billion which largely reflects the closure of positions to reduce the Groups level of unsecured Subordinated liabilities were down 0.7 billion, 3%, to 26.3 billion, funding requirements to mitigate the potential impact of unfavourable primarily reflecting the redemption of 0.2 billion US dollar and 0.4 market conditions.
billion Euro denominated dated loan capital.
Settlement balances declined 3.8 billion, 33% to 7.8 billion as a result The Groups non-controlling interests decreased by 0.5 billion, 28%, to of decreased customer activity.
1.2 billion, primarily due to the disposal of the majority of the RBS Sempra Commodities JV business, 0.4 billion.
Movements in the value of derivative assets up 102.5 billion, 24%, to 529.6 billion, and liabilities, up 100.0 billion, 24%, to 524.0 billion, Owners equity decreased by 0.3 billion to 74.8 billion.
This was driven primarily reflect increases in interest rate contracts as a result of a by the attributable loss for the year, 2.0 billion, together with the significant downward shift in interest rates across all major currencies, recognition of actuarial losses in respect of the Groups defined benefit together with increases in the mark-to-market value of credit derivatives pension schemes, net of tax, 0.5 billion and exchange rate and other as a result of widening credit spreads and rising credit default swap movements of 0.3 billion.
Offsetting these reductions were gains in prices.
available-for-sale reserves, 1.1 billion and cashflow hedging reserves, 1.0 billion and the issue of shares under employee share schemes, 0.4 billion.
99 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 100 Business review continued Cash flow 2012 2011 2010 m m m Net cash flows from operating activities 45,113 3,325 19,291 Net cash flows from investing activities 27,175 14 3,351 Net cash flows from financing activities 2,017 1,741 14,380 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3,893 1,473 82 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 19,814 125 8,344 2012 Net cash inflows from investing activities of 14 million related to the net The major factors contributing to the net cash outflow from operating inflows from sales of securities of 3,074 million, and sale of property, activities of 45,113 million were the decrease of 48,736 million in plant and equipment of 1,840 million offset by net cash outflows from operating assets and liabilities, the net operating loss before tax of investments in business interests and intangible assets of 1,428 million 5,276 million from continuing and discontinued operations, loans and and from the purchase of property, plant and equipment of 3,472 million.
advances written off net of recoveries of 3,925 million and other noncash items of 1,491 million.
These were partially offset by the Net cash outflows from financing activities of 1,741 million relate elimination of foreign exchange differences of 7,140 million, provisions primarily to interest on subordinated liabilities of 714 million, repayment for impairment losses of 5,283 million and depreciation and amortisation of subordinated liabilities of 627 million and redemption of nonof 1,854 million.
Net cash inflows from investing activities of 27,175 million related to the 2010 net inflows from sales of securities of 26,092 million, the sale of The major factors contributing to the net cash inflow from operating property, plant and equipment of 2,215 million and investments in activities of 19,291 million were the increase of 17,095 million in business interests and intangible assets of 352 million offset by net cash operating assets less operating liabilities, depreciation and amortisation outflows from the purchase of property, plant and equipment of 1,484 of 2,220 million and income taxes received of 565 million, partly offset million.
by the net operating loss before tax of 940 million from continuing and discontinued operations.
Net cash inflows from financing activities of 2,017 million relate primarily to the issue of subordinated liabilities of 2,093 million and proceeds of Net cash flows from investing activities of 3,351 million relate to the net non-controlling interests issued of 889 million partly offset by interest inflows from sales of securities of 4,119 million and investments in paid on subordinated liabilities of 746 million and dividends paid of 301 business interests and intangibles of 3,446 million.
offset by the outflow of 4,112 million from investing activities of discontinued operations.
2011 The major factors contributing to the net cash inflow from operating Net cash outflow from financing activities of 14,380 million primarily activities of 3,325 million were the elimination of foreign exchange arose from the redemption of non-controlling interests of 5,282 million, differences of 2,702 million, depreciation and amortisation of 1,875 dividends paid of 4,240 million, repayment of subordinated liabilities of million and inflow from other items of 2,900 million, partially offset by the 1,588 million and the redemption of preference shares of 2,359 million.
net operating loss before tax of 708 million from continuing and discontinued operations and the decrease of 3,444 million in operating assets and liabilities.
100 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 101 RBS GROUP 2012 Capital resources The following table analyses the Group's regulatory capital resources on a fully consolidated basis at 31 December as monitored by the FSA for regulatory purposes.
In carrying out this policy, the Group has regard to the supervisory requirements of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The FSA uses Risk Asset Ratio RAR as a measure of capital adequacy in the UK banking sector, comparing a bank's capital resources with its risk-weighted assets the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are 'weighted' to reflect the inherent credit and other risks : by international agreement, the RAR should be not less than 8% with a Tier 1 component of not less than 4%.
For further information refer to Balance sheet management: Capital management on pages 127 to 136.
101 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 102 Business review continued Reconciliations of managed to statutory income statements Basis of preparation of managed results The financial information on a managed basis, prepared using the Groups accounting policies, shows the underlying performance of the Group which excludes certain one-off and other items which are listed on page 38.
This information is provided to give a better understanding of the results of the Groups operations.
Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 Reallocation of one-off Direct Line Managed items Group Statutory m m m m Net interest income 11,695 15 278 11,402 Non-interest income excluding insurance net premium income 10,374 4,129 294 6,539 Insurance net premium income 3,718 3,718 Non-interest income 14,092 4,129 3,424 6,539 Total income 25,787 4,144 3,702 17,941 Operating expenses 14,619 4,220 1,012 17,827 Profit before insurance net claims and impairment losses 11,168 8,364 2,690 114 Insurance net claims 2,427 2,427 Operating profit before impairment losses 8,741 8,364 263 114 Impairment losses 5,279 5,279 Operating profit loss 3,462 8,364 263 5,165 Own credit adjustments 4,649 4,649 Asset Protection Scheme 44 44 Payment Protection Insurance costs 1,110 1,110 Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs 700 700 Regulatory fines 381 381 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 178 178 Integration and restructuring costs 1,550 1,550 Gain on redemption of own debt 454 454 Strategic disposals 113 113 Bank levy 175 175 Write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets 518 518 RFS Holdings minority interest 20 20 Operating loss including the results of Direct Line Group discontinued operations 5,296 394 263 5,165 Direct Line Group discontinued operations 1 131 394 263 Operating loss before tax 5,165 5,165 Tax charge 469 469 Loss from continuing operations 5,634 5,634 Loss profit from discontinued operations, net of tax - Direct Line Group 184 184 - Other 12 12 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 172 177 Loss for the year 5,806 5,806 Non-controlling interests 123 123 Preference share and other dividends 288 288 Loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders 5,971 5,971 Note: 1 Included within Direct Line Group discontinued operations are the managed basis divisional results of Direct Line Group DLG, certain DLG related activities in Central items: and related one-off and other items including write-down of goodwill, integration and restructuring costs and strategic disposals.
102 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 103 RBS GROUP 2012 Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 Reallocation of one-off Direct Line Managed items Group Statutory m m m m Net interest income 12,689 10 376 12,303 Non-interest income excluding insurance net premium income 10,764 1,238 346 12,348 Insurance net premium income 4,256 4,256 Non-interest income 15,020 1,238 3,910 12,348 Total income 27,709 1,228 4,286 24,651 Operating expenses 15,478 2,548 892 17,134 Profit before insurance net claims and impairment losses 12,231 1,320 3,394 7,517 Insurance net claims 2,968 2,968 Operating profit before impairment losses 9,263 1,320 426 7,517 Impairment losses 7,439 1,270 2 8,707 Operating profit loss 1,824 2,590 424 1,190 Own credit adjustments 1,914 1,914 Asset Protection Scheme 906 906 Payment Protection Insurance costs 850 850 Sovereign debt impairment 1,099 1,099 Interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale sovereign debt 169 169 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 222 222 Integration and restructuring costs 1,064 1,064 Gain on redemption of own debt 255 255 Strategic disposals 104 104 Bank levy 300 300 Bonus tax 27 27 Write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets 11 11 RFS Holdings minority interest 7 7 Operating loss including the results of Direct Line Group discontinued operations 766 424 1,190 Direct Line Group discontinued operations 1 424 424 Operating loss before tax 1,190 1,190 Tax charge 1,127 1,127 Loss from continuing operations 2,317 2,317 Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax - Direct Line Group 301 301 - Other 47 47 Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 348 348 Loss for the year 1,969 1,969 Non-controlling interests 28 28 Loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders 1,997 1,997 Note: 1 Included within Direct Line Group discontinued operations are the managed basis divisional results of Direct Line Group DLG, certain DLG related activities in Central items and Non-Core: and related one-off and other items including integration and restructuring costs and strategic disposals.
103 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 104 Business review continued Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 Reallocation of one-off Direct Line Managed items Group Statutory m m m m Net interest income 14,200 9 427 13,782 Non-interest income excluding insurance net premium income 13,266 735 195 12,726 Insurance net premium income 5,128 5,014 114 4,819 12,840 Non-interest income 18,394 735 Total income 32,594 726 5,246 26,622 Operating expenses 16,710 1,518 772 17,456 Profit before insurance net claims and impairment losses 15,884 2,244 4,474 9,166 Insurance net claims 4,783 4,698 85 Operating profit before impairment losses 11,101 2,244 224 9,081 Impairment losses 9,256 21 9,235 Operating profit loss 1,845 2,244 245 154 Own credit adjustments 242 242 Asset Protection Scheme 1,550 1,550 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 369 369 Integration and restructuring costs 1,032 1,032 Gain on redemption of own debt 553 553 Strategic disposals 171 171 Bonus tax 99 99 Write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets 10 10 RFS Holdings minority interest 150 150 Operating loss including the results of Direct Line Group discontinued operations 399 245 154 Direct Line Group discontinued operations 1 245 245 Operating loss before tax 154 154 Tax charge 703 703 Loss from continuing operations 857 857 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax - Direct Line Group 176 176 - Other 633 633 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 809 809 Loss for the year 1,666 1,666 Non-controlling interests 665 665 Preference share and other dividends 124 124 Loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders 1,125 1,125 Note: 1 Included within Direct Line Group discontinued operations are the managed basis divisional results of Direct Line Group DLG, certain DLG related activities in Central items and Non-Core: and related one-off and other items including integration and restructuring costs and strategic disposals.
104 GRA12 2b Divisional Perf 64 107 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 10:52 Page 105 RBS GROUP 2012 Analysis of balance sheet pre and post disposal groups In accordance with IFRS 5 assets and liabilities of disposal groups are presented as a single line on the face of the balance sheet.
As allowed by IFRS, disposal groups are included within risk measures in the Risk and balance sheet management section.
2 Primarily UK branch-based businesses, RBS Aviation Capital, sold in 2012, and remainder of RBS Sempra Commodities JV.
3 Primarily RBS Sempra Commodities JV, Non-Core project finance assets and certain interests in Latin America, Europe and the Middle East.
106 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Our business and our strategy 109 Strategic risk objectives 109 Risk appetite and risk governance 113 Capital management 127 Liquidity, funding and related risks 137 Credit risk 157 Balance sheet analysis 194 Market risk 242 Country risk 252 Other risks 281 107 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 108 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Strategic risk objectives Our business and our strategy 109 Strategic risk objectives 109 Key developments 109 Top and emerging risk scenarios 110 10 1088 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 109 RBS GROUP 2012 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Our business and our strategy We set risk appetite at Group level.
This establishes the level and type of Our approach to risk management risks that we are able and willing to take to meet our strategic objectives Except as otherwise indicated by an asterisk, the information in the and our wider obligations to stakeholders.
We cascade and embed this Risk and balance sheet management section pages 107 to 293 is within risk appetite across the Group, allowing: the scope of the Independent auditors report.
x each business to understand its acceptable levels of risk: and In the balance sheet, all assets and liabilities of disposal groups are presented as a single line.
In the risk and balance sheet management x commercial strategies to be aligned with the use of available section, balances and exposures relating to disposal groups are included financial resources.
within risk measures for all periods presented.
Refer to pages 105 and 106 for analysis of balance sheet pre and post disposal groups.
By setting a clear risk appetite and embedding a strong risk culture throughout our businesses, we can identify, measure and control risk Strategic risk objectives exposures and respond effectively to shocks.
Risk management plays an integral role in the delivery of the Groups strategic goal to be a safe and secure banking group.
The Key developments implementation of a stronger and more effective culture of risk In 2012, the Group continued to strengthen its approach to risk management and control provides the platform necessary to address management amidst a challenging and ever-changing external historical vulnerabilities, rebuild upon the Groups core strengths and environment.
Areas of progress included: position it on a sustainable and profitable path for future growth.
x reducing exposures in line with the objective of being safe and Financial strength and resilience are at the heart of the Groups Strategic sustainable: Plan.
The Group has defined this level of robustness as that which is capable of achieving and sustaining a standalone credit rating i. e. x improving the quality of data, including forward-looking measures: without government support that is in line with those of its strongest international peers.
x developing a framework for the effective management of conduct risk: Given this central aim, in 2009 the Group Board set out four key strategic objectives, aligned to the Groups Strategic Plan.
These are to: x strengthening the credit risk and country risk appetite and management frameworks and ensuring consistent application x Maintain capital adequacy: to ensure that the Group has sufficient across the Group: and capital resources to meet regulatory requirements and to cover the potential for unexpected losses in its asset portfolio: x further realigning the Group Policy Framework to the business model and continuing assurance.
x Deliver stable earnings growth: to ensure that strategic growth is based around a longer-term risk versus reward consideration, with This is how the Group brings the Strategic Plan to life in the management significantly lower volatility in underlying profitability than was seen of risk.
over the previous five years: Strategic risk objectives x Ensure stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity: such that the Group has sufficient funding to meet its obligations, taking account of the constraint that some forms of funding may not be Key risk appetite measures available when they are most needed: and x Maintain stakeholder confidence: to ensure that stakeholders have Risk frameworks and limits confidence in the Groups recovery plan, its ability to deliver its strategic objectives and the effectiveness of its business culture and operational controls.
Day-to-day risk management Each objective is essential in its own right, but also mutually supportive of the others.
More detailed discussions on how the Group strengthened its approach to risk management in 2012 and the areas of focus going forward is These strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the Group-level contained within the relevant sub-sections on the following pages.
business strategy and the frameworks, limits and tolerances that are used to set risk appetite and manage risk in the business divisions on a day-to-day basis.
unaudited 109 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 110 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Strategic risk objectives continued ii The risk of a eurozone event Top and emerging risk scenarios Europe was of concern throughout the year owing to a combination of As part of its risk management process, the Group identifies and monitors slow growth in major economies and negative growth in peripheral its top and emerging risk scenarios.
Such risk scenarios are those the countries labouring under high public debt burdens.
As a result, several materialisation of which would lead to a significant unexpected negative risks might materialise, including the default of one or more eurozone outcome, thereby causing the Group as a whole or a particular division to sovereigns, the exit from the eurozone of one or more member countries fail to meet one or more strategic risk objectives.
In assessing the or the redenomination of the currency of a eurozone country followed by potential impact of risk materialisation, the Group takes into account both the devaluation of that countrys currency.
Although the Groups direct financial and reputational considerations.
exposure to most peripheral eurozone countries is modest, it has material exposure to Ireland through its ownership of Ulster Bank.
In addition, it Although management is concerned with a range of risk scenarios, a has material exposure to core eurozone countries such as Germany, the relatively small number attracted particular attention from senior Netherlands, France and, to a lesser extent, Italy.
Details of the Groups management during the past year.
These can be grouped into three eurozone exposures appear on pages 256 to 280.
All divisions are broad categories: affected by this risk.
Impact on the Group x If a peripheral eurozone sovereign defaults on its debt, the Group x Regulatory and legal risks.
could experience unexpected impairments, either as a result of its exposure to the sovereign or as a result of its exposure to financial x Risks related to the Groups operations.
institutions or corporations located in that country.
In addition, further information on these and other risks facing the Group x If one or more sovereigns exit the eurozone, credit ratings for appears in the discussion of Risk Factors on pages 503 to 515. eurozone borrowers more broadly may be downgraded, resulting in increases in credit spreads and decreases in security values, giving Descriptions of top and emerging risks are provided below: rise to market value losses.
Macro-economics risks x If one or more peripheral eurozone sovereigns redenominates its currency, resulting in a devaluation, the Group could experience i Increased defaults in sectors to which the Group has concentrated losses to the extent that its exposures to these sovereigns are not exposure, particularly commercial real estate funded by liabilities that similarly redenominate.
The Group has concentrated lending exposure to several sectors, most notably commercial real estate, giving rise to the risk of losses and Mitigants reputational damage from unexpectedly high defaults.
Another sector to The Group has taken a number of steps to mitigate the impact of these which the Group has concentrated lending exposure is shipping.
of the Groups businesses are exposed to these sectors, principally NonCore, Ulster Bank and UK Corporate.
x To mitigate the impact of a eurozone sovereign default, the Group has reduced its exposures to peripheral eurozone countries.
To Impact on the Group mitigate the impact of the exit from the eurozone of one or more x If borrowers are unable to refinance existing debt, they may default.
countries, and the sovereign ratings downgrade that would likely Further, if the value of collateral they have provided continues to result, the Group has extended its limit control framework to include decline, the resulting impairments may be larger than expected.
addition, as other lenders seek to sell assets, the Group may find it more difficult to meet its own targets for a reduction in its exposure x Finally, to mitigate the impact of redenomination, the Group has to certain sectors.
reduced exposures and sought where possible to reduce mismatches between the currencies in which assets and liabilities Mitigants are denominated.
x The Group is mitigating its risks by monitoring exposures carefully and achieving reductions through a combination of repayments, rolliii The risk of a more severe or protracted economic downturn offs and asset sales whenever possible.
In addition, it has placed Following the financial crisis of 2007, economies in the UK, Europe and limits on the origination of new business of this type.
the US have struggled to recover and return to growth.
An unexpectedly severe downturn could result from economic weakness in the emerging markets of Asia, spreading to the US, the UK and Europe.
A slowdown in or reversal of economic growth could undermine the austerity plans of the UK and other countries in Europe.
The risk to the UK is of particular concern.
While all divisions are potentially affected, those most at risk include UK Corporate, UK Retail, Markets, Non-Core and Ulster Bank.
unaudited 110 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 111 RBS GROUP 2012 Impact on the Group Regulatory and legal risks x If the UK experiences an unexpectedly severe economic downturn, the Group is exposed to the risk of losses largely as a result of i A failure to demonstrate compliance with existing regulatory increased impairments in its retail and commercial businesses in the requirements related to conduct UK.
Its investment banking activities in the UK could also be The Group is subject to regulation governing the conduct of its business adversely affected.
For example, it must ensure that it sells its products and services only to informed and suitable customers and handles complaints x A worsening of the already difficult economic environment in Ireland efficiently and effectively.
This risk affects all divisions.
could result in increased impairments in Ulster Bank.
In addition, it could make the sale or refinancing of related exposures in Non-Core Impact on the Group more difficult, slowing progress towards the elimination of these x If the Group sells unsuitable products and services to customers or if exposures.
the sales process is flawed, it may incur regulatory censure, including fines.
In addition, it may suffer serious reputational Mitigants damage.
x To mitigate the risk, the Group actively monitors its risk positions with respect to country, sector, counterparty and product relative to x If the Group fails to handle customer complaints appropriately, it risk appetite, placing exposures on Watch and subjecting them to may incur regulatory censure, including fines.
In addition, it may greater scrutiny.
In addition, the Group reduces exposures when incur increased costs as it investigates these complaints and appropriate and practicable.
Further, it may suffer serious reputational damage.
iv An increase in the Groups obligations to support pension schemes The Group has established various pension schemes, thereby incurring Mitigants certain obligations as sponsor of these schemes.
All of the Groups In order to mitigate these risks, the Group has taken a number of steps: businesses are exposed to this risk.
x In order to mitigate the risk of mis-selling, affected divisions are x If the value of the pension scheme assets is not adequate to fund exiting some businesses and improving staff training and controls in pension scheme liabilities, the Group may be required to set aside others.
additional capital in support of the schemes.
The amount of additional capital that may be required depends on the size of the x In order to improve the handling of customer complaints, divisions shortfall when the assets are valued.
However, as asset values are have detailed action plans in place to meet or exceed customer and lower and liabilities higher than they were when the fund was last regulatory requirements and address known shortcomings.
valued, an increase in capital required is a possibility.
ii A failure to demonstrate compliance with other existing regulatory x In addition, the Group may be required to increase its cash requirements contributions to the schemes.
Similarly, the amount of additional The Group is also subject to regulation governing its business activities cash contributions that may be required depends on the size of the more broadly.
For example, it is required to take the steps necessary to shortfall when the assets are valued.
If interest rates fall further, the ensure that it complies with rules in place to prevent money laundering, value of the schemes assets may decline as the value of their bribery and other forms of unlawful activity.
It is also required to comply liabilities increases, leading to the need to increase cash with certain regulations regarding the timely provision of banking services contributions still further.
Mitigants Impact on the Group x In order to mitigate the risk, the Group has taken a number of steps, x If the Group sells products and services to sanctioned individuals or including changing the terms of its pension schemes to reduce the groups, it may expose itself to the risk of litigation as well as rate at which liabilities are increasing.
These include: capping the regulatory censure.
Its reputation would also suffer materially.
growth rate of pensionable salary at two percent, and changing the x If the Group, as a result of a systems failure, is unable to provide retirement age to 65 with same contributions, with the option for banking services to customers, it may incur regulatory fines and individuals to retire at age 60 and pay an extra five percent of their censure as well as suffer significant reputational damage.
111 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 112 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Strategic risk objectives : Top and emerging risk scenarios continued Mitigants Risks related to the Groups operations x The Group is in the process of installing a new global client screening program, the objective of which is to prevent the i A failure of information technology systems inadvertent provision of products and services to sanctioned The Group relies on information technology systems to service its individuals or groups.
customers, giving rise to the risk of losses and significant reputational damage should one or more of these systems fail.
The risks of an x The Group has also established and is implementing a plan to information technology system failure affects all of the Groups enhance the resilience of information technology and payment businesses.
Impact on the Group iii Losses or reputational damage arising from litigation x A failure could prevent the Group from making or receiving Given its diverse operations, the Group is exposed to the risk of litigation.
payments, processing vouchers or providing other types of services For example, during the course of 2012, it was the subject of to its customers.
investigations into its activities in respect of LIBOR as well as securitisation.
This risk affects all of the Groups divisions.
x A failure could also prevent the Group from managing its liquidity position, giving rise to the risk of illiquidity.
Impact on the Group x As a result of litigation, the Group may incur fines, suffer reputational x A lack of management information could lead to an inadvertent damage, or face limitations on its ability to operate.
In the case of breach of regulations governing capital or liquidity.
LIBOR, the Group reached settlements with the Financial Services Authority, the Commodity Futures Trading Association and the US x A failure could also leave the Group vulnerable to cyber crime.
It continues to cooperate with other Group is also exposed to this risk indirectly, through outsourcing governmental and regulatory authorities in relation to LIBOR arrangements with third parties.
investigations: the probable outcome is that the Group will incur additional financial penalties at the conclusion of these Mitigants investigations.
x The Group has developed a risk appetite framework to manage these risks and is implementing a plan to bring its risk position within Mitigants risk appetite by improving batch processing through process x The Group defends claims against it to the best of its ability.
The Group expects these investments to result in improvements over the course of 2013 and 2014. iv A failure to demonstrate compliance with new requirements arising from structural reform ii A failure of operational controls In addition to existing regulation, the Group will be subject to new The Group is exposed to the risk of losses arising from a failure of regulation arising from structural reform.
For example, legislation creating supervisory controls to prevent a deviation from procedures.
An example the Single European Payment Area SEPA will require the Group to of such a deviation is an unauthorised trading event.
Should existing develop and implement the infrastructure necessary to effect domestic controls prove inadequate, one or more individuals may expose the and cross border payments.
This risk affects Markets, International Group to risks far in excess of its approved risk appetite.
While all Banking and Ulster Bank in particular.
divisions are exposed to this risk to some degree, Markets is particularly at risk.
Impact on the Group x Compliance with the regulation will require substantial changes in Impact on the Group the Groups systems.
As a result, the Group may not be able to x If one or more individuals deviate from procedures, the Group may meet the deadline for implementation, giving rise to the risk of take excessively large positions.
If market prices change adversely, regulatory fines and censure.
In addition, as such a failure would the Group may incur losses.
Such losses may be substantial if the affect customers, it could also have a material negative impact on positions themselves are very large relative to the relevant market.
Mitigants Mitigants x Markets has developed a plan for addressing identified weaknesses, x The Group has a project in train to design, develop and deliver the has benchmarked it against those of its peers and is implementing it.
unaudited 112 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 113 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Risk appetite and risk governance Risk appetite 114 Risk organisation 116 Risk governance 117 Stress testing 121 Risk coverage 122 113 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 114 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk appetite and risk governance x Quantitative risk appetite targets - Risk appetite is also aligned to Risk appetite potential risk exposures and vulnerabilities under severe but Risk appetite is both a key business tool and an integral part of RBSs plausible stress conditions.
Quantitative targets, under stress enterprise-wide approach to risk management.
It is aligned with the conditions, are set around the Groups strategic risk objectives refer Groups strategic objectives, helping to strike an optimal balance between to page 109. building a sustainable risk profile and creating long-term value for the Groups customers, investors and wider stakeholders.
The risk appetite x Qualitative risk appetite targets - The third strategic risk objective of framework is designed to ensure that each business can withstand maintaining stakeholder confidence covers qualitative aspects significant deteriorations in economic and market conditions.
relating to the culture of risk management and controls and meeting stakeholder expectations.
Risk appetite is based around identified The Groups risk appetite is set and owned by the Group Board.
It expectations across a range of stakeholders e. g. customers, identifies and establishes the level and type of risks that RBS is able and employees, investors and the general public and is closely aligned willing to take in order to: with key risk policies and controls e. g. the Group Policy Framework, conduct risk, reputational risk.
x meet its strategic objectives - the Groups Strategic Plan is built on the core foundations of serving its customers well, building a x Risk control frameworks and limits - Risk control frameworks set sustainable risk profile and creating long-term value for its granular tolerances and limits for material risk types e. g. credit risk, shareholders: and market risk, conduct risk and operational risk that are used to manage risk on a day-to-day basis.
These limits support and are x meet its wider obligations to stakeholders - a bank that is safe and required to be consistent with the high-level risk appetite targets.
sound and puts serving customers at the heart of its thinking should also perform well for its owners, employees, regulators and The framework is supported by a programme of communication, communities.
engagement and training rolled out across the Group to engender a wide understanding of the purpose and value of an effective risk appetite.
Risk appetite is cascaded and embedded across the Group.
It provides a greater understanding of the acceptable levels of risk for each business, The Group Policy Framework see following section directly supports the aligning commercial strategies with the use of scarce financial resources, qualitative aspects of risk appetite, helping to rebuild and maintain such as capital and funding.
It provides a solid platform from which RBS stakeholder confidence in the Groups risk control and governance.
This can focus on its key business strengths and competitive advantages over integrated approach ensures that an appropriate standard of control is set the long term.
for each of the material risks the Group faces, with an effective assurance process put in place to monitor and report on performance.
Delivering a sustainable and conservative risk profile Risk appetite starts with the tone from the top i. e. the strategic goals and Risk appetite has its own policy standard within the Group Policy risk philosophy set by the Group Board and is cascaded through key Framework that sets out clear roles and responsibilities to measure, targets, limits and risk tolerances that influence decision making from cascade and report performance against risk appetite, and to provide enterprise-wide to transactional level.
assurances that business is being conducted within approved risk limits and tolerances.
A strong risk culture is a key part of ensuring risk appetite is effectively embedded across the Group.
The link between risk appetite and strategic The Board Risk Committee reviews the framework and its targets on a objectives encourages people at all levels of the business to think about regular basis to ensure they remain aligned to strategic objectives, risk, how they apply it and how they manage it.
It incorporates the business performance, emerging risks and changes in the external quantitative and qualitative aspects of risk, and uses both absolute and environment.
Strategic Objectives Strategic Objectives The risk appetite framework is based upon four main pillars: The strategic objectives are translated into high-level target measures that set the risk appetite boundaries The strategic objectives are translated into high-level target measures that set the risk appetite boundaries x Risk envelope metrics - RBS has set sustainable business goals High Level Strategic Quantitative Risk Qualitative over a medium-term horizon refer to page 15, including a target for Risk A High Le ppetite vel Risk En Strateg velope T ic Risk argets Q Au ppetite T antitative arg Risk ets Risk A Qualit ppetite T ative Rarg isk ets Risk Appetite Envelope Targets Appetite Targets Appetite Targets the capital ratio, leverage ratio, loan:deposit ratio, liquidity portfolio Granular tolerances and limits, consistent with the high-level targets, are set and Granular tolerances and limits, consistent with the high level targets, are set and used to manage risk on a and use of wholesale funding.
These effectively set the broad used to manage risk on a day-to-day basis day-to-day basis boundaries within which the Group operates.
The Non-Core division Risk Control F Risk Control Fr rameworks & Limits ameworks & Limits also acts as a primary driver for reducing risk and the size of the balance sheet.
Traded & Non Liquidity Lower Level Traded & Non Traded Funding & Lower Level Credit Operational Conduct Credit Operational Conduct Risk Appetite Traded Market Market & Funding Liquidity Risk Appetite Country Reputational Regulatory Business Pension Country Reputational Regulatory Business Pension unaudited 114 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 115 RBS GROUP 2012 Creating sustainable value within risk appetite x Policies are followed across the Group and compliance can be Risk appetite supports value creation delivered in a safe and sustainable clearly evidenced, assessed and reported by line management: way.
It is embedded within the annual planning and budgeting process.
Business strategies are designed on the basis of key value drivers e. g. x The control environment is monitored and overseen through good regulatory framework, customer franchises, internal control framework, governance.
incentives and whether they fit within agreed risk appetite boundaries.
Communication and training programmes ensure staff are aware of their A range of different but complementary tools have been developed to own responsibilities.
Policy standard owners and sponsors review their measure whether strategic plans are consistent with risk appetite, to test policies on a regular basis, documenting identified shortfalls and broader what if questions and to assess the impact of changes in key addressing them within an agreed time frame.
assumptions: In 2011, a number of key enhancements were delivered including the x Integrated stress testing - refer to page 121 assesses how following: earnings, capital and funding positions change under an unfavourable, yet plausible, scenario.
Stress scenarios can differ by x The Groups policy standards were rewritten to ensure they clearly theme, geographical location or severity.
express the existing mandatory controls required to mitigate the key risks the Group faces: x Economic capital - provides complementary insights, with a breadth of understanding of risk profile changes and tail risks across x All of the Groups policy standards were externally benchmarked: millions of different modelled scenarios.
and x Sensitivity analysis - provides ready reckoners around changes in x For each policy standard, appropriate risk-based assurance activity key variables.
It offers a high-level view on questions such as what was introduced to ensure each division is appropriately controlled if GDP worsened by a further 1%?, identifying certain tipping points and compliance with policy can be demonstrated.
where the Groups risk profile moves outside its risk appetite.
During 2012, the scope of the GPF was refined further.
Key Effective processes for reporting the results have also been developed, developments included: presenting the Board and senior management with a holistic and dynamic view of key risk exposures.
x Following external benchmarking exercises, additional policy standards were introduced setting out new mandatory controls Group Policy Framework required to mitigate key risks to the Group.
Achieving and sustaining a robust control framework comparable to those of the Groups strongest international peers is critical to achieving the x A conduct risk framework was agreed and is being progressively successful delivery of the Groups risk objectives.
Grouped under four policy standards - employee conduct, corporate conduct, market conduct: and conduct towards The Group Policy Framework GPF, introduced in 2009, supports this our customers - each is designed to provide high level direction to goal by providing a consistent and structured overarching framework for the Group and is supported by the Group's Code of Conduct refer conduct, control and governance.
It provides clear guidance and controls to page 347 for more detail.
on how the Group does business, linked to its risk appetite, its business conduct and compliance responsibilities, and its focus on delivering a x The Groups key credit risk policies and mandatory controls were control environment consistent with best practice against relevant restructured and realigned to reflect the two distinct portfolios of external benchmarks.
credit risk: wholesale and retail.
These changes are aimed at simplifying the policy structure and making it clearer to divisions The GPF and related initiatives aim to ensure that: which standards are applicable to their respective businesses.
x The Group has ethical principals and clear control standards to x Certain procedural-related policy standards were removed from the identify the risks it faces to support effective risk management and framework to reduce bureaucracy and simplify the structure.
meet regulatory and legal requirements: The GPF continues to be improved.
The results of assurance activity, monitoring and analysis of the internal and external environment are used to reassess the policy standards on a regular basis.
unaudited 115 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 116 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk appetite and risk governance continued Divisional CROs have a direct functional reporting line to the Deputy Risk organisation Group CRO.
The Group has an independent risk management function RBS Risk Management which manages risk through independent challenge and The Head of Restructuring and Risk and the Deputy Group CRO have a oversight of the customer-facing businesses and support functions.
It direct involvement in the selection, appointment or removal of divisional provides an overarching risk control framework linked to the risk appetite CROs and Group functional heads and also have responsibility for their of the Group.
ongoing performance assessment and management.
The Head of Restructuring and Risk is the Group Chief Risk Officer, who Divisions mirror the Group set-up for risk management, i. e. the Divisional leads this function through the strategic setting and execution of its Executive Committees are responsible for setting and owning their risk responsibilities.
The Head of Restructuring and Risk reports to the Group appetite within Group constraints.
The Divisional Risk Committees Chief Executive and the Board Risk Committee, with a right of access to oversee the businesses relative to divisional and Group risk appetite and the Chairman.
focus on ensuring that risks are adequately monitored and controlled.
RBS Risk Management is designed to align as closely as possible with The Divisional CROs provide independent oversight to this process, with the customer-facing businesses and support functions while maintaining support from the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Deputy Group CRO and an appropriate level of independence, which underpins the Groups Group functional heads as appropriate.
Additional challenge and approach to risk management and is reinforced through the Group by oversight is provided by Group functional heads on an ongoing basis and appropriate reporting lines.
by Divisional Risk and Audit Committees on a periodic review basis.
Within RBS Risk Management, Group functional heads e. g. the Group For more information on risk governance and a presentation of the Chief Credit Officer for the credit risk discipline, the Group Head of Groups risk committees, refer to pages 117 to 120.
For a summary of the Operational Risk for the operational risk discipline report directly into the main risk types faced by the Group and how it manages each of them, Head of Restructuring and Risk and are responsible for firm-wide risk refer to pages 122 to 126. appetite and standards under their respective disciplines.
For example, Group Compliance is responsible for conduct risk policy ownership, Three lines of defence change management, assurance and training frameworks at Group level, Having a strong three lines of defence model is important in a strong including anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing, anticontrol environment.
The Executive Committee approved a refreshed bribery and corruption.
model in February 2012 and work is underway to embed this across the Group.
The models main purpose is to define accountabilities and Risk management within divisions focuses on all material risks including responsibilities for managing risk across the Group.
credit, market, operational, regulatory and country risk, and business activities.
Liquidity risk and the day-to-day management of liquidity and funding of the book is Group Treasurys responsibility.
Oversight of risk within divisions is the responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief Risk Officer CRO, with input from the relevant Group heads of function.
This involves ensuring that: x All activities undertaken by the individual divisions are consistent with the Groups risk appetite targets: x Group policies and resulting operating frameworks, including delegated authorities and limits, are complied with through effective monitoring and exception reporting: and x There is the effective operation of Group-wide risk processes such as the Group Policy Framework and the New Product Risk Assessment Process.
unaudited 116 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 117 RBS GROUP 2012 Risk governance The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance in every aspect of the business, including risk management.
A key aspect of the Group Boards responsibility as the main decision-making body at Group level is the setting of Group risk appetite to ensure that the levels of risk that the Group is willing to accept in the attainment of its strategic business and financial objectives are clearly understood.
To enable the Group Board to carry out its objectives, it has delegated authority to senior Board and executive committees, as required and appropriate.
A number of key committees specifically consider risk across the Group, as set out in the diagram below.
Group Board Group Performance Executive Board Risk Group Audit Group Sustainability Group Board Group Board Group Board and R Group Board emuneration Group Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Executive Divisional Risk and Credit Group Risk Forum Audit Committees Group Asset and Group Risk Conduct Risk Liability Management Comprises independent 2 Committee Committee 1 Committee non-executive directors Notes: 1 The following sub-committees report directly to the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee: Capital and Stress Testing Committee, Pension Risk Committee, Balance Sheet Management Committee.
2 The following sub-committees report directly to the Group Risk Committee: Global Market Risk Committee, Group Country Risk Committee, Group Models Committee, Group Credit Risk Committee and Operational Risk Executive Committee.
In addition, Divisional Risk Committees report to the Group Risk Committee.
The Capital and Stress Testing Committee also provides monthly updates to the Group Risk Committee, escalating issues as necessary.
unaudited 117 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 118 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk appetite and risk governance: Risk governance continued During 2012, the Conduct Risk Committee was created as a subThe key risk responsibilities of each of these committees as well as their committee of the Executive Risk Forum.
Effective conduct risk membership are set out in the table below.
Further information on the management is not only a commercial imperative for the Group: Group Board and Board Committees is available on page 297. customers, clients and counterparties demand it as a precursor to building trust.
For more information on conduct risk and the Groups These committees are supported at a divisional level by a risk management of this risk type, refer to page 290. governance structure embedded in the business.
These committees play a key role in ensuring that the Groups risk appetite is supported by effective risk management frameworks, limits and policies, together with clear accountabilities for approval, monitoring, oversight, reporting and escalation.
Board Committee Risk focus Membership Group Board The Group Board ensures that the Group manages risk The Board of directors effectively by approving and monitoring the Groups risk appetite, considering Group stress scenarios and agreed mitigants and identifying longer-term strategic threats to the Groups business operations.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee considers recommendations on Group Chief Executive risk management matters referred by the Executive Risk Group Finance Director Forum and or Group Risk Committee, including Chief Administration Officer recommendations on risk appetite, risk policies and risk Chief Executive Officers of divisions management strategies.
It operates under delegated Head of Restructuring and Risk authority from the Group Board.
Board Risk Committee The Board Risk Committee provides oversight and advice to At least three independent non-executive directors, the Group Board on current and potential future risk one of whom is the Chairman of the Group Audit exposure of the Group and risk strategy.
Groups performance on risk appetite, oversees the operation of the Group Policy Framework and provides a risk review of remuneration arrangements.
It operates under delegated authority from the Group Board.
Group Audit Committee The Group Audit Committee reviews accounting policies, At least three independent non-executive directors, at financial reporting and regulatory compliance practices of the least one of whom is a financial expert as defined in Group, as well as its systems and standards of internal the SEC rules under the US Exchange Act.
controls and monitors the Groups processes for internal audit and external audit.
It has responsibility for monitoring relationships with regulatory authorities.
Group Performance and The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee has At least three independent non-executive directors Remuneration Committee oversight of the Groups policy on remuneration and receives advice from RBS Risk Management and the Board Risk Committee to ensure that there is thorough risk input into incentive plan design and target setting, as well as risk review of performance bonus pools and clawback.
Group Sustainability The Group Sustainability Committee is responsible for Independent non-executive directors Committee overseeing and challenging how management is addressing sustainability and reputation issues related to all stakeholder groups.
This includes customer and related citizenship activities, oversight of the delivery of the Purpose, Vision and Values cultural and behavioural change, and oversight of the sustainability aspects of the people agenda.
unaudited 118 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 119 RBS GROUP 2012 Board Committee Risk focus Membership Executive Risk Forum The Executive Risk Forum has full authority to act on all Group Chief Executive material and or enterprise-wide risk and control matters Group Finance Director across the Group.
It approves the most material limits and Chief Administration Officer decisions above defined thresholds and delegates decisions Chief Executive Officers of divisions below these thresholds to sub-committees and appropriate Head of Restructuring and Risk individuals.
It operates under delegated authority from the Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer Executive Committee.
Group Asset and Liability The Group Asset and Liability Management Committee is Group Finance Director Management Committee responsible for identifying, managing and controlling Group Group Treasurer balance sheet risks in executing its business strategy.
It Chief Executive Officers of divisions operates under delegated authority from the Executive Risk Head of Restructuring and Risk Forum.
Key Group Finance function heads Chief Executive Officer, Markets, M&IB Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee acts on material and or Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer enterprise-wide risk and control matters across the Group.
It Divisional Chief Risk Officers is an oversight committee which reviews and challenges Key Group Risk function heads risks and limits across the functional areas and plays a key role exercising and demonstrating effective risk oversight across the Group.
It reviews risks and issues on both a thematic and specific basis and focuses on forward-looking, emerging risks.
It considers the overall risk profile across the Group and identifies any key issues for escalation to the Executive Risk Forum.
It operates under delegated authority from the Executive Risk Forum.
Conduct Risk Committee The Conduct Risk Committee is responsible for the Head of Restructuring and Risk governance, leadership and strategic oversight of the Group General Counsel Groups conduct risk agenda, as well as escalating and Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer reporting any material or strategically significant issues or Global Head of Compliance matters to the Executive Risk Forum.
It operates under Director, Group Regulatory Affairs delegated authority from the Executive Risk Forum.
Chief Executive Officer, Wealth Management Managing Director, Products and Marketing, UK Retail Chief Executive Officer, Corporate Banking Vice Chairman, RBS Citizens Financial Group Co-Head, M&IB Americas Director, Group Operations, Business Services Chief Operating Officer, Ulster Bank Group Chief Executive Officer, RBS England & Wales and NatWest Scotland Head of Group Internal Audit Pension Risk Committee The Pension Risk Committee considers the Group-wide view Group Finance Director of pension risk appetite, mechanisms that could potentially Head of Restructuring and Risk be used for managing risk within the funds, and implications Group Treasurer of the pension schemes financial strategy.
It also reviews Global Head of Market and Insurance Risk actuarial funding assumptions from a Group perspective as Group Chief Accountant appropriate.
The Pension Risk Committee consults with the Chief Executive Officer, Markets, M&IB Trustees Investment Executive where necessary.
The Global Head of Markets, M&IB Pension Risk Committee operates under delegated authority Group Head of Pension Risk from the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee.
Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer Head of Group Pensions 119 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 120 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk appetite and risk governance: Risk governance continued Board Committee Risk focus Membership Capital and Stress Testing The Capital and Stress Testing Committee leads the Group Finance Director Committee integrated development and maintenance of risk capital Key Group Finance function heads approaches, frameworks and standards.
It reviews positions Key Group Risk function heads and plans, agrees approaches and standards and provides cross-functional challenge on the topics outlined in its terms of reference.
It is responsible to the Group Finance Director and the Head of Restructuring and Risk for many of these activities.
It provides updates to the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee and Group Risk Committee and seeks approvals where necessary.
It operates under delegated authority from the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee.
Executive Credit Group The Executive Credit Group decides on requests for the Group A members 1 extension of existing or new credit limits on behalf of the Head of Restructuring and Risk Group Board where the proposed aggregate facility limits are Deputy Chief Risk Officer in excess of the credit approval authorities granted to Group Chief Credit Officer Chief Credit Officer N. V. individuals in divisions or in RBS Risk Management, or Head of Global Restructuring Group where an appeal against a decline decision of the Group Chief Risk Officer, Corporate Banking Chief Credit Officer or delegates or Group Chief Risk Officer is referred for final decision.
Group B members 1 Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Deputy Chief Executive Officers, M&IB 1 Decisions require input from at least one member from each of Group A and Group B. Divisional Risk and Audit Divisional Risk and Audit Committees report to the Board Members: at least three non-executive members who Committees Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee on a are executives of the Group who do not have quarterly basis.
Their main responsibilities are to: executive responsibility in the relevant division.
x monitor the performance of the divisions relative to Attendees: at least two executives of the division, as divisional and Group risk appetite: and appropriate.
Representatives from finance, risk, internal audit and external audit.
x review accounting policies, internal control, financial reporting functions, internal audit, external audit and Members of the Board Risk Committee and Group regulatory compliance.
Audit Committee also have the right to attend.
unaudited 120 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 121 RBS GROUP 2012 Stress testing Scenario stress testing is conducted throughout the Group as detailed Stress testing describes the evaluation of a banks financial position below: under severe but plausible stress scenarios.
Stress testing also refers to the broader framework under which these tests are developed, evaluated x As part of the financial planning and strategy cycle, stress tests are and used within the Groups decision-making process in the context of conducted by divisions and aggregated to produce firm-wide results.
These stress tests are also used for monitoring divisional and Group risk appetite.
Internal stress tests The Groups stress testing framework is designed to embed stress testing x Stress testing is performed centrally by Group functions both to as a key risk management technique into mainstream risk reporting, meet regulatory requirements and for ad-hoc business analysis and capital planning and business processes at divisional, legal entity and decision-making.
These stress tests also include reverse stress Group levels.
tests, which identify scenarios and circumstances that could render RBSs business model unviable.
The Executive Risk Forum see Risk governance on page 119 is the main body overseeing the Group's stress testing approach, processes x Division-specific stress testing is undertaken to support risk and results.
The forum is primarily responsible for reviewing and identification and risk management decision-making.
challenging the results of any Group-wide stress test and ensuring that, where necessary, appropriate management actions are undertaken.
The x Risk-type specific stress testing is also conducted.
For example, Board Risk Committee receives reports detailing stress tests undertaken within the market risk management framework, a comprehensive as part of the financial planning process.
It reviews and challenges the programme of stress tests covers a variety of historical and stress scenarios and considers their impact on the Group's financial hypothetical scenarios, including reverse stress tests.
These reports outline relevant management actions as well as the extent to which such actions mitigate the effects of the stress Stress test scenarios specifically target both firm-wide vulnerabilities and scenario on the Groups capital adequacy.
The Board Risk Committee negative global impacts.
They consider a five-year horizon and include may also request additional stress tests as it deems necessary.
stress projections for macroeconomic variables such as GDP, unemployment rates, property prices, stock price indices, interest rates Stress testing forms part of the Group's risk and capital management and inflation.
framework and is a major component of the Basel III requirements.
It highlights to senior management potential unexpected adverse outcomes related to a mixture of risks and provides an indication of how much capital might be required to absorb losses should adverse scenarios materialise.
Stress tests, part of the financial planning process are conducted and presented to senior management semi-annually.
Stress tests are also conducted to meet regulatory requirements as well as to assess the impact of business decisions on the Group's capital position.
Examples of the former include the European Banking Authoritys EUwide stress tests, the International Monetary Funds Financial Sector Assessment Program and the UK Financial Services Authoritys anchor stress tests while examples of the latter include stress tests conducted in connection with the transfer of assets from The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. to The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
unaudited 121 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 122 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk appetite and risk governance continued Risk coverage The main risk types faced by the Group are presented below, together with a summary of the key areas of focus and how the Group managed these risks in 2012.
Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2012 Capital adequacy The risk that the Group has Potential to disrupt the Core Tier 1 ratio was 10.3%, a sixty basis point improvement on risk insufficient capital.
business model and stop 2011 excluding the effect of APS.
This largely reflected normal functions of the Group.
reduction in risk profile with risk-weighted assets RWAs down by nearly 10%, principally in Non-Core due to disposals and runPotential to cause the Group off and in Markets.
to fail to meet the supervisory requirements of regulators.
Significantly driven by credit risk losses.
Liquidity and The risk that the Group is The Groups performance in 2012 represented a new benchmark funding unable to meet its financial in the management of liquidity risk as the Group began operating liabilities as they fall due.
under normalised market practices for the management of liquidity and funding risk despite a backdrop of continued market uncertainty and certain Group-specific factors such as a downgrade of the Groups external credit rating.
The Group met or exceeded its medium term strategic funding and liquidity targets by 2012 year end.
This included a loan:deposit ratio of 100%, short-term wholesale funding STWF of 42 billion, representing 5% of funded assets target: less than 10% and 147 billion liquidity portfolio which covered STWF 3.5 times target: greater than 1.5 times STWF.
Refer to pages 137 to 156. Credit risk The risk that the Group will Loss characteristics vary The Group manages credit risk based on a suite of credit incur losses owing to the materially across portfolios.
approval, risk concentration, early warning and problem failure of a customer or management frameworks and associated risk management counterparty to meet its Significant link between losses systems and tools.
obligation to settle outstanding and the macroeconomic amounts.
With a view to strengthening its credit risk management framework and ensuring consistent application across the Group, Can include concentration risk during 2012 the Group Credit Risk function launched a set of - the risk of loss due to the credit control standards with which divisions must comply, to concentration of credit risk to a supplement the existing policy suite.
These standards comprise specific product, asset class, not only governance and policy but also behavioural, sector or counterparty.
organisational and management norms that determine how the Group manages credit from origination to repayment.
During 2012, loan impairment charges were 27% lower than in 2011 despite continuing challenges in Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core and commercial real estate portfolios.
Credit risk associated with legacy exposures continued to be reduced, with a further 34% decline in Non-Core credit RWAs during the year.
The Group also continued to make progress in reducing key credit concentration risks, with exposure to commercial real estate declining 16% during 2012.
Refer to pages 157 to 241. unaudited 122 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 123 RBS GROUP 2012 Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2012 Country risk The risk of material losses Can arise from sovereign Under the Group's country risk framework, all countries except arising from significant countryevents, economic events, the UK and the US are currently under limit control.
political events, natural countries with material exposures are monitored continually disasters or conflicts.
using the Groups country risk watchlist process to identify emerging issues and facilitate the development of mitigation Potential to affect parts of the strategies.
Detailed portfolio reviews are undertaken on a Groups credit portfolio that are regular basis to ensure that country portfolio compositions directly or indirectly linked to remain aligned to the Groups country risk appetite in light of the country in question.
evolving economic and political developments.
Primarily present in credit In the context of several sovereign downgrades, the Group has portfolios of Markets, made continued progress in managing down its sovereign International Banking, Ulster exposures.
Having recognised an impairment on its holding of Bank Ireland, Group Centre Greek government bonds in 2011, the Group participated in the mainly Treasury and Nonrestructuring of Greek sovereign debt in the first quarter of Core.
2012 and no longer holds Greek government bonds.
During 2012, the Group brought nearly all advanced countries under country limit control and further restricted its country risk appetite.
Balance sheet exposures to periphery eurozone countries decreased by 13% or 9 billion to 59 billion with 20 billion outside of Ireland.
Funding mismatches in Ireland and Spain reduced to approximately 9 billion and 4 billion respectively.
Mismatches in other periphery eurozone countries were modest.
Insurance risk The risk of financial loss Frequent small losses which The Groups insurance risk resides principally in its majority through fluctuations in the are material in aggregate.
owned subsidiary, Direct Line Insurance Group plc DLG, timing, frequency and or Infrequent large material which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
DLG ensures severity of insured events, losses.
that it prices its policies and invests its resources appropriately relative to the expectations at to minimise the risk of potential loss.
The risks are mitigated by the time of underwriting.
agreeing policies and minimum standards that are regularly reviewed.
The controls are supplemented by reviews by external experts.
123 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 124 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk appetite and risk governance: Risk coverage continued Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2012 Market risk The risk arising from Frequent small losses which A comprehensive structure is in place aimed at ensuring the fluctuations in interest rates, are material in aggregate.
Group does not exceed its qualitative and quantitative foreign currency, credit tolerance for market risk.
spreads, equity prices, Infrequent large material losses commodity prices and riskdue to stress events.
The Groups market risk policy statements set out its qualitative related factors such as market tolerance for market risk.
They define the governance, volatilities.
The majority of the Groups responsibilities and requirements for the identification, market risk exposure is in the measurement, analysis, management and communication of Markets, International Banking market risk arising from the Groups trading and non-trading and Non-Core divisions and investment activities.
The Group is also exposed to market risk The Group market risk limit framework expresses the Groups through interest rate risk and quantitative tolerance for market risk.
The Group limit metrics foreign exchange risk on its capture, in broad terms, the full range of market risk non-trading activities in the exposures, ensuring the risk is appropriately defined and retail and commercial communicated.
During 2012, the Group continued to reduce its risk exposures: market risk limits were lowered accordingly.
Average trading VaR was 97 million, 8% lower than 2011, largely reflecting asset sales in Non-Core and decreases in ABS trading inventory in Markets.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from Frequent small losses.
The Group aims to manage operational risk to an acceptable inadequate or failed processes, level by taking into account the cost of minimising the risk people, systems or from Infrequent significant losses.
against the resultant reduction in exposure.
During 2012, the Group continued to make good progress in enhancing its operational risk framework and risk management capabilities.
Key areas of focus have included: embedding risk assessments, increasing the coverage of the scenario analysis portfolio, and improving statistical capital modelling capabilities.
Operational risk data have been enriched by the outputs from these enhancements, resulting in a more complete view of the Groups operational risk profile and more informed risk appetite decisions.
The level of operational risk remains high due to the scale of change occurring across the Group both structural and regulatory, macroeconomic stresses e. g. eurozone distress and other external threats such as e-crime.
In June 2012 the Group was affected by a technology incident as a result of which the processing of certain customers accounts and payments were subject to considerable delay.
Refer to pages 282 to 284. unaudited 124 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 125 RBS GROUP 2012 Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2012 Regulatory risk The risk arising from nonAdverse impacts on strategy, Management of regulatory risk entails early identification and compliance with regulatory capital structure, business effective management of changes in legislative and regulatory requirements, regulatory models and operational requirements that may affect the Group.
Within the Group Policy Framework, specific policies define the Financial cost of adapting to minimum standards for regulatory engagement, upstream risk changes in laws, rules or management and registration and licensing of individuals.
regulations or of penalties for These set minimum standards within their respective areas, non-compliance.
Financial cost and reputational During 2012, the Group, along with the rest of the banking damage in respect of penalties industry, continued to experience unprecedented levels of for non-compliance breach of prospective changes to laws and regulations from national and regulations.
Particular areas of focus were: conduct regulation: prudential regulation capital, liquidity, governance and risk management : treatment of systemically important entities systemic capital surcharges and recovery and resolution planning : and structural reforms, with the UKs Independent Commission on Banking proposals, the European Unions Liikanen Group recommendations and the DoddFrank Volcker Rule agenda in the US.
Conduct risk The risk that the conduct of the Arises from breaches of A defined and measurable appetite for conduct risk has been Group and its staff towards its regulatory rules or laws by established to ensure commercial decisions take account of customers, or within the individual employees, or as a conduct risk implications.
markets in which it operates, result of the Groups retail or leads to reputational damage wholesale market conduct.
A management framework has been developed to enable the and or financial loss.
consistent identification, assessment and mitigation of conduct It may also arise from the failure risks.
Embedding of this framework started during 2012 and is to meet customers or continuing in 2013. regulators expectations of the Group.
Grouped under four pillars employee conduct, corporate conduct, market conduct and conduct towards the Groups Non-compliance may result in customers, each conduct risk policy is designed to ensure the regulator enforcement, adverse Group meets its obligations and expectations.
Awareness initiatives and targeted conduct risk training for each policy, aligned to the phased policy roll-out, have been developed and are being delivered to help embed understanding and provide the necessary clarity.
These actions are designed to facilitate effective conduct risk management, and address shortcomings identified through recent instances of inappropriate conduct.
125 GRA12 3a Risk Intro 108 126 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:31 Page 126 RBS GROUP 2012 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk appetite and risk governance: Risk coverage continued Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2012 Reputational risk The risk of brand damage Can arise from a range of The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for managing the and or financial loss due to the actions taken or, in some Group's reputation, although all parts of the Group have failure to meet stakeholders cases, not taken by the Group, responsibility for any reputational impact arising from their expectations of the Group.
as well as its wider policies and operations.
The Board's oversight is supported by executive practices.
risk committees including a new Conduct Risk Committee and by the Group Sustainability Committee.
Can be detrimental to the business in a number of ways, In 2012, the Group strengthened the alignment of reputational including an inability to build or risk management with its strategic objective of serving sustain customer relationships, customers well and with the management of a range of risk low staff morale, regulatory types that have a reputational sensitivity.
There are still legacy censure, or reduced access to reputational issues to work through, but dealing with them in funding sources.
an open and direct manner is a necessary prerequisite to rebuilding a strong reputation for the Group.
Refer to page 291. Business risk The risk of losses as a result of May be caused by internal The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to business risk, adverse variance in the factors such as volatility in subject to its wider strategic objectives.
Business risk is Groups revenues and or costs pricing, sales volumes and input identified, measured and managed through the Groups relative to its business plan and costs, and or by external factors planning cycles and performance management processes.
such as exposure to macroeconomic, regulatory and The Group operates a rolling forecast process which identifies industry risks.
projected changes in, or risks to, operating profit and ensures appropriate action is taken.
Influenced by other risks the Group faces that may contribute The management of business risk lies primarily with divisions, to adverse changes in revenues with oversight at the Group level led by Finance.
and or costs, were these risks to crystallise.
During 2012, the Group continued to fide-risk its balance sheet and to shrink its more volatile Markets business.
The Group has further enhanced its scenario modelling to better understand potential threats to earnings, and to develop appropriate contingency plans.
Pension risk The risk arising from the Funding position can be volatile The Group manages the risk it faces as a sponsor of its Groups contractual liabilities to due to the uncertainty of future defined benefit pension schemes using a framework that or with respect to its defined investment returns and the encompasses risk reporting and monitoring, stress testing, benefit pension schemes, as projected value of schemes modelling and an associated governance structure.
This helps well as the risk that it will have liabilities.
ensure the Group is able to fulfil its obligation to support the to make additional defined benefit pension schemes to which it has exposure.
In 2012, the Group focused on enhancing its pension risk management and modelling systems and implementing a Group pension risk policy standard.
Each risk type maps into the Groups risk appetite framework and contributes to the overall achievement of its strategic objectives with underlying frameworks and limits.
The key frameworks and developments over the past year are described in the relevant sections of the following pages.
unaudited 126 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 127 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Capital management Introduction 128 2012 achievements 128 Governance and approach 128 Capital ratios 129 Pillar 3 129 Capital resources 130 Flow statement Basel 2.5 130 Reconciliation between accounting and regulatory consolidation 131 Reconciliation between accounting equity and regulatory capital 132 Risk-weighted assets 134 Divisional analysis 134 Flow statement 135 Looking forward 135 Basel III 135 Model changes 136 Other regulatory capital changes 136 European Banking Authority EBA recommendation 136 127 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 128 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Capital management The Groups own determination of how much capital is sufficient is Introduction derived from the desired credit rating level, risk appetite and reflects the The Group aims to maintain an appropriate level of capital to meet its current and emerging regulatory requirements of the Group.
It is business needs and regulatory requirements, and the Group operates evaluated through the application of both internally and externally defined within an agreed risk appetite.
stress tests that identify potential changes in capital ratios to a range of scenarios.
The appropriate level of capital is determined based on the dual aims of: i meeting minimum regulatory capital requirements: and ii ensuring the The Group identifies the management and recovery actions that could be Group maintains sufficient capital to uphold investor and rating agency applied to stress environments.
These form an important part of the confidence in the organisation, thereby supporting the business franchise capital management approach and the contingency planning and funding capacity.
arrangements, complementing the established buffers.
2012 achievements Monitoring and maintenance The Groups Core Tier 1 ratio of 10.3% is higher than at the end of 2011 Based on these determinations, which are continually reassessed, the after adjusting for Asset Protection Scheme effects despite absorbing Group aims to maintain capital adequacy, both at Group level and in each regulatory changes equivalent to 109 basis points and in the face of regulated entity.
challenging economic headwinds and continuing costs of fide-risking.
This has been achieved through a continued focus on reshaping the Groups The Group operates a rigorous capital planning process aimed at use of capital.
ensuring the capital position is controlled within the agreed parameters.
This incorporates regular re-forecasts of the capital positions of the The Group has developed its stress testing capability to identify the regulated entities and the overall Group.
In the event that the projected impact of a wider set of potential scenarios.
The stress outcomes show position might deteriorate beyond acceptable levels, the Group would that the fide-risking in the Group has been effective in reducing the issue further capital and or revise business plans accordingly.
impacts of stress scenarios and at the same time the capital ratios have been improving, resulting in increased capital buffers.
The changes to the Stress testing approaches are used to determine the level of capital risk profiles as a result of fide-risking include run-down of Non-Core, required to ensure the Group expects to remain adequately capitalised.
reduction in concentrations, and revising the strategic footprint of the Markets division.
Capital allocation Capital resources are allocated to the Groups businesses based on key The capital allocation approaches used in the Group will be developed to performance parameters agreed by the Group Board in the annual become increasingly risk sensitive and align risk management and strategic planning process.
Principal among these is a profitability metric, resource allocation more fully.
which assesses the effective use of the capital allocated to the business.
Projected and actual return on equity is assessed against target returns Governance and approach set by the Group Board.
The allocations also reflect strategic priorities, The Group Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO is the intensity of regulatory capital use and the usage of other key Group responsible for ensuring the Group maintains adequate capital at all resources such as balance sheet funding and liquidity.
The Capital and Stress Testing Committee CAST is a crossfunctional body driving and directing integrated risk capital activities Economic profit is also planned and measured for each division during including determination of the amount of capital the Group should hold, the annual planning process.
It is calculated by deducting the cost of how and where capital is allocated and planning for actions that would equity utilised in the particular business from its operating profit and ensure that an adequate capital position would be maintained in a measures the value added over and above the cost of equity.
These activities have linkages to capital planning, risk appetite and regulatory change.
CAST reports through GALCO and The Group aims to deliver sustainable returns across the portfolio of comprises senior representatives from Risk Management, Group Finance businesses with projected business returns stressed to test key and Group Treasury.
Determining appropriate capital The divisions use return on capital metrics when making pricing decisions The minimum regulatory capital requirements are identified by the Group on products and transactions to ensure customer activity is appropriately through the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and then aligned with Group and divisional targets and allocations.
agreed between the Group Board and the appropriate supervisory authority.
The Financial Services Authority FSA uses the risk asset ratio as a measure of capital adequacy in the UK banking sector, comparing a banks capital resources with its RWAs the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are weighted to reflect the inherent credit and other risks.
By international agreement, the risk asset ratios should not be less than 8% with a Tier 1 component of not less than 4%.
unaudited 128 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 129 RBS GROUP 2012 Capital ratios The Groups capital, RWAs and risk asset ratios, calculated in accordance with FSA definitions, are set out below.
2012 2011 2010 Capital bn bn bn Core Tier 1 47.3 46.3 49.6 Core Tier 1 excluding Asset Protection Scheme APS 47.3 49.1 53.8 Tier 1 57.1 57.0 60.1 Total 66.8 60.7 65.3 2012 2011 2010 Risk-weighted assets by risk bn bn bn Credit risk - non-counterparty 323.2 344.3 385.9 - counterparty 48.0 61.9 68.1 Market risk 42.6 64.0 80.0 Operational risk 45.8 37.9 37.1 459.6 508.1 571.1 APS relief 69.1 105.6 459.6 439.0 465.5 Risk asset ratios % % % Core Tier 1 10.3 10.6 10.7 Core Tier 1 excluding APS 10.3 9.7 9.5 Tier 1 12.4 13.0 12.9 Total 14.5 13.8 14.0 Key point x The Core Tier 1 ratio, excluding relief provided by APS, has improved to 10.3% at 31 December 2012 driven by continued run-down and disposal of Non-Core assets and the reshaping of the balance sheet and capital usage in Markets.
Refer to page 135 for details on regulatory changes due to Basel III and Capital Requirement Directive IV and commentary on related projections for the Group.
Pillar 3 The Group publishes its Pillar 3 disclosures on its website, providing a range of additional information relating to Basel II and risk and capital management across the Group.
The disclosures focus on capital resources and adequacy and discuss a range of credit risk measures and management methods such as credit risk mitigation, counterparty credit risk and provisions and their associated RWAs under the various Basel II approaches.
Detailed disclosures are also made on equity exposures, securitisations, operational risk, market risk and interest rate risk in the banking book.
unaudited 129 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 130 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Capital management continued Capital resources Flow statement Basel 2.5 The table below analyses the movement in Core Tier 1, Other Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital during the year.
Core Tier 1 capital m At 1 January 2012 46,341 Attributable loss net of movements in fair value of own credit 2,647 Ordinary shares issued 120 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 821 Foreign exchange reserve movements 867 Decrease in non-controlling interests 24 Decrease in capital deductions including APS first loss 4,307 Decrease in goodwill and intangibles 1,313 Defined pension fund movement net of prudential filter adjustment 977 Other movements 1,067 At 31 December 2012 47,320 Other Tier 1 capital At 1 January 2012 10,649 Foreign currency reserve movements 189 Decrease in Tier 1 deductions 252 Other movements 393 At 31 December 2012 9,815 Tier 2 capital At 1 January 2012 8,546 Dated subordinated debt issued 4,167 Dated subordinated debt redeemed matured 3,582 Foreign exchange movements 643 Decrease in capital deductions including APS first loss 4,649 Other movements 985 At 31 December 2012 12,152 Supervisory deductions At 1 January 2012 4,828 Decrease in deductions 2,341 At 31 December 2012 2,487 Total regulatory capital at 31 December 2012 66,800 unaudited 130 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 131 RBS GROUP 2012 Reconciliation between accounting and regulatory consolidation The table below provides a reconciliation between accounting and regulatory consolidation.
Consolidation Deconsolidation of banking Accounting of insurance and associates Regulatory balance sheet other entities 1 other entities 2 consolidation 2012 m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 79,290 544 79,834 Loans and advances to banks 63,951 30 48 63,969 Loans and advances to customers 500,135 1,438 2,883 504,456 Debt securities 157,438 12 743 158,169 Equity shares 15,232 194 15,038 Settlement balances 5,741 5,741 Derivatives 441,903 441,903 Intangible assets 13,545 13,545 Property, plant and equipment 9,784 1,320 32 8,496 Deferred tax 3,443 3,443 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 7,820 77 320 7,423 Assets of disposal groups 14,013 10,544 3,469 1,312,295 10,739 3,9301,305,486 Liabilities Deposits by banks 101,405 92 101,497 Customer accounts 521,279 3,486 524,765 Debt securities in issue 94,592 94,592 Settlement balances 5,878 5,878 Short positions 27,591 27,591 Derivatives 434,333 434,333 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 14,801 100 253 14,954 Retirement benefit liabilities 3,884 3,884 Deferred tax 1,141 5 1,136 Subordinated liabilities 26,773 99 26,872 Liabilities of disposal groups 10,170 9,267 903 1,241,847 9,372 3,9301,236,405 Non-controlling interests 2,318 1,367 951 Owners equity 68,130 68,130 Total equity 70,448 1,367 69,081 1,312,295 10,739 3,9301,305,486 Notes: 1 The Group must only include particular types of subsidiary undertaking in the regulatory consolidation.
Insurance undertakings and non-financial undertakings are excluded from the regulatory consolidation, although they are included in the consolidation for financial reporting.
2 The Group must proportionally consolidate its associated undertakings where they are classified as credit institutions or financial institutions for regulatory purposes.
These will generally have been equity accounted for financial reporting purposes.
unaudited 131 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 132 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Capital management: Capital resources continued Reconciliation between accounting equity and regulatory capital The table below provides a reconciliation of shareholders equity per accounting balance sheet to the regulatory capital.
2012 2011 2010 m m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Called-up share capital 6,582 15,318 15,125 Paid-in equity 431 431 431 Share premium 24,361 24,001 23,922 Retained earnings 10,596 18,929 21,239 AFS reserve - debt securities 409 1,065 2,061 AFS reserve - equity shares 63 108 25 Cash flow hedging reserve 1,666 879 140 Other reserves 24,840 16,218 16,591 68,130 74,819 75,132 Less: innovative securities transferred to other Tier 1 capital 431 431 431 Less: preference shares transferred to other Tier 1 capital 4,313 4,313 4,313 Non-controlling interests 2,318 1,234 1,719 Less: innovative securities transferred to other Tier 1 capital 548 548 548 Less: minority interest deconsolidated 1,367 259 259 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 691 2,634 1,182 Defined benefit pension adjustment 913 Unrealised losses on AFS debt securities 409 1,065 2,061 Unrealised gains on AFS equity shares 63 108 25 Cash flow hedging reserve 1,666 879 140 Other adjustments for regulatory purposes 197 571 204 Goodwill and other intangible assets 13,545 14,858 14,448 50% of expected loss 13,954 15,316 12,827 Less: 50% of internal rating based impairment allowances 11,432 11,865 10,169 Less: tax on 50% of expected loss over impairment provisions 618 915 758 50% securitisation positions 1,107 2,019 2,321 50% of APS first loss 2,763 4,225 16,469 24,161 21,696 Core Tier 1 capital 47,320 46,341 49,604 Other Tier 1 capital Preference shares - equity transferred from shareholders equity 4,313 4,313 4,313 Preference shares - debt transferred from subordinated liabilities 1,054 1,094 1,097 Innovative securities transferred from shareholders equity 431 431 431 Innovative securities transferred from non-controlling interests 548 548 548 Innovative hybrid securities transferred from subordinated liabilities 3,146 3,688 3,683 9,492 10,074 10,072 Tier 1 deductions 50% material holdings 295 340 310 Tax on excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 618 915 758 323 575 448 Total Tier 1 capital 57,135 56,990 60,124 unaudited 132 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 133 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 2011 2010 m m m Qualifying Tier 2 capital Subordinated debt 26,773 26,319 27,053 Less: transferred to other Tier 1 capital 4,200 4,782 4,780 Less: amortisation 5,049 4,275 2,915 Less: other adjustments 1,910 897 761 15,614 16,365 18,597 Unrealised gains on AFS equity shares 63 108 25 Collectively assessed impairment provisions 399 635 778 Non-controlling Tier 2 capital 11 11 16,076 17,119 19,411 Tier 2 deductions 50% of securitisation positions 1,107 2,019 2,321 50% excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 2,522 3,451 2,658 50% of material holdings 295 340 310 50% of APS first loss 2,763 4,225 3,924 8,573 9,514 Total Tier 2 capital 12,152 8,546 9,897 Supervisory deductions Unconsolidated Investments - Direct Line Group 2,081 4,354 3,962 - Other investments 162 239 318 Other deductions 244 235 452 2,487 4,828 4,732 Total regulatory capital 66,800 60,708 65,289 Key points x Core Tier 1 capital increased by 1 billion during 2012.
Excluding x Attributable loss, net of fair value of own credit, of 2.6 billion was APS however, Core Tier 1 capital decreased by 1.8 billion.
partially offset by lower Core Tier 1 deduction for securitisation positions of 1.1 billion, primarily relating to restructuring of monolines within Non-Core.
Credit risk Gross Market Operational RWAs Non-counterparty Counterparty risk risk bn bn bn bn bn At 1 January 2012 344.3 61.9 64.0 37.9 508.1 Business and market movements 1 46.0 20.4 16.3 7.9 74.8 Disposals 7.3 3.8 6.5 17.6 Model changes 2 32.2 10.3 1.4 43.9 At 31 December 2012 323.2 48.0 42.6 45.8 459.6 Notes: 1 Represents changes in book size, composition, position changes and market movements.
2 Refers to implementation of a new model or modification of an existing model after approval from the FSA.
Key Points Looking forward x The 75 billion decrease due to business and market movements is Basel III driven by: The rules issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision - Market risk and counterparty risk decreased by 16 billion and 20 BCBS, commonly referred to as Basel III, are a comprehensive set of billion due to reshaping the business risk profile: reforms designed to strengthen the regulation, supervision, risk and - Run-off of balances in Non-Core: liquidity management of the banking sector.
- Declines in Retail and Commercial due to loans migrating into default and customer deleveraging: and In December 2010, the BCBS issued the final text of the Basel III rules, - Reduction in credit risk in the Group liquidity portfolio as European providing details of the global standards agreed by the Group of peripheral exposures were sold.
Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the BCBS and endorsed by the G20 leaders at their November 2010 Seoul summit.
x The increase in operational risk follows the recalibration based on the average of the previous three years financial results.
The The new capital requirements regulation and capital requirements substantial losses recorded in 2008 no longer feature in the directive that implement Basel III proposals within the European Union calculation.
EU collectively known as CRD IV are in two parts, Capital Requirements Directive CRD and the Capital Requirements Regulation.
x Disposals of 18 billion relate to Non-Core disposals, including RBS Further technical detail will be provided by the European Banking Aviation Capital and exposures relating to credit derivative product Authority through its Implementing Technical Standards and Regulatory companies, monolines and other counterparties.
x Model changes of 44 billion reflect: The CRD IV has not yet been finalised and consequently the Basel III - Changes to credit metrics applying to corporate, bank and implementation date of 1 January 2013 has been missed.
While it is sovereign exposures as models were updated to reflect more anticipated that agreement of the CRD IV will be achieved during 2013, recent experience, 30 billion: and the implementation date remains uncertain.
- Application, of slotting approach to UK commercial real estate exposures, 12 billion.
CRD IV and Basel III will impose a minimum common equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio of 4.5% of RWAs.
There are three buffers which will affect 1 the Group: the capital conservation buffer : the counter-cyclical capital 2 buffer up to 2.5% of RWAs, to be applied when macro-economic conditions indicate areas of the economy are over-heating: and the 3 Global-Systemically Important Bank G-SIB buffer, leading to an additional common equity Tier 1 requirement of 4% and a total common equity Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%.
The regulatory target capital requirements will be phased in and are expected to apply in full from 1 January 2019.
Notes: 1 The capital conservation buffer is set at 2.5% of RWAs and is intended to be available in periods of stress.
Drawing on the buffer would lead to a corresponding reduction in the ability to make discretionary payments such as dividends and variable compensation.
2 The counter-cyclical buffer is institution specific and depends on the Group's geographical footprint and the macroeconomic conditions pertaining in the individual countries in which the Group operates.
As there is a time lag involved in determining this ratio, it has been assumed that it will be zero for the time being.
3 The G-SIB buffer is dependent on the regulatory assessment of the Group.
The Group has been provisionally assessed as requiring additional CET1 of 1.5% in the list published by the Financial Stability Board FSB on 1 November 2012.
The FSB list is updated annually.
The actual requirement will be phased in from 2016, initially for those banks identified in the list as G-SIBs in November 2014. unaudited 135 GRA12 3b Capital management 127 136 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:38 Page 136 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Capital management: Looking forward continued approvals and the extent to which further management action is taken The changes in the definition of regulatory capital under CRD IV and the prior to implementation.
capital ratios will be subject to transitional rules: Models changes x The increase in the minimum capital ratios and the new buffer The Group, in conjunction with the FSA, regularly evaluates its models for requirements will be phased in over the five years from the assessment of RWAs ascribed to credit risk including counterparty implementation of the CRD IV: risk across various classes.
This includes implementing changes to the RWA requirements for commercial real estate portfolios consistent with x The application of the regulatory deductions and adjustments at the revised industry guidance from the FSA.
The changes to RWA resulting level of common equity, including the new deduction for deferred tax from model changes during 2012 have increased RWA requirements by assets, will also be phased in over the five years from 44 billion of which 12 billion relates to property guidance.
Further uplifts implementation: the current adjustment for unrealised gains and are expected in 2013 totalling c. 10 billion to 15 billion.
losses on available-for-sale securities will be phased out: and Other regulatory capital changes x Subordinated debt instruments which do not meet the new eligibility The Group is managing the changes to capital requirements from new criteria will be will be grandfathered on a reducing basis over ten regulation and model changes and the resulting impact on the common years.
equity Tier 1 ratio, focusing on risk reduction and deleveraging.
This is principally being achieved through the continued run-off and disposal of The Group is well advanced in its preparations to comply with the new Non-Core assets and deleveraging in Markets, as the business focuses requirements based on the draft rules.
Given the phasing of both capital on the most productive returns on capital.
Markets RWAs decreased by requirements and target levels, in advance of needing to comply with the 19 billion in 2012 which also lessens the increases driven by the fully loaded end state requirements, the Group will have the opportunity counterparty risk changes in CRD IV.
to continue to generate additional capital from earnings and take management actions to mitigate the impact of CRD IV.
European Banking Authority EBA recommendation The EBA issued a recommendation in 2011 that the national regulators The Groups pro forma Core Tier 1 ratio on a fully loaded basis at 31 should ensure that credit institutions build up a temporary capital buffer to December 2012, based on its interpretation of the rules and assuming reach a 9% Core Tier 1 ratio by 30 June 2012 the recapitalisation of EU 1 they were applied today, is estimated at 7.7%.
The pro forma capital banks.
In its final report on the recapitalisation exercise in October 2012, ratio reflects the Groups interpretation of the draft July 2011 CRD IV the EBA stated that once the CRD IV is finally adopted, the 2011 rules and how these rules are expected to be updated for subsequent EU recommendation would be replaced with a new recommendation.
new recommendation will include the requirement for banks to maintain a nominal amount of Core Tier 1 capital as defined by the EBA for the 2011 The actual impact of CRD IV on capital ratios may be materially different stress test and recapitalisation recommendation corresponding to the as the requirements and related technical standards have not yet been amount of 9% of the RWAs at 30 June 2012.
The Group does not expect finalised and will ultimately be subject to application by local regulators.
the potential floor to become a limiting factor.
The actual impact will also be dependent on required regulatory Note: 1 Based on the following principal assumptions: i divestment of Direct Line Group ii deductions for financial holdings of less than 10% of common equity Tier 1 capital have been excluded pending the finalisation of CRD IV rules iii RWA uplifts assume approval of all regulatory models and completion of planned management actions iv RWA uplifts include the impact of credit valuation adjustments CVA and asset valuation correlation on banks and central clearing counterparties v EU corporates, pension funds and sovereigns are assumed to be exempt from CVA volatility charge in calculating RWA impacts.
unaudited 136 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 137 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Liquidity, funding and related risks Introduction 138 2012 achievements and looking forward 138 Liquidity risk 139 Policy, framework and governance 139 Stress testing 141 Contingency planning 142 Liquidity reserves 142 Regulatory oversight 142 Funding risk 143 Funding sources 143 Central bank funding 143 Balance sheet composition 143 Liquidity and funding risk: Analyses 144 Funding sources 144 Notes issued 144 Deposit and repo funding 145 Divisional loan:deposit ratios and funding gaps 145 Long-term debt issuance 146 Liquidity 147 Liquidity portfolio 147 Net stable funding ratio 149 Maturity analysis 150 Encumbrance 151 Non-traded interest rate risk 153 Introduction and methodology 153 Analyses 153 Value-at-risk 153 Sensitivity of net interest income 154 Currency risk 155 Structural foreign currency exposures 155 Non-traded equity risk 156 137 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 138 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity, funding and related risks x The Group resumed coupon payments on hybrid capital securities Introduction following the end of the two year coupon payment ban imposed by Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial the European Commission as part of its 2009 State Aid ruling.
obligations, including financing wholesale maturities or customer deposit Coupons remain suspended on Tier 1 instruments issued by RBS withdrawals, as and when they fall due.
Liquidity risk is highly dependent Holdings N. V. until the end of April 2013. on company specific characteristics such as the maturity profile and composition of the Groups assets and liabilities, the quality and x The Group and RBS plc issued a combined 1.0 billion in term debt marketable value of its liquidity buffer and broader market factors, such net of buy-backs, a fraction of the 20.9 billion issued in 2011. as wholesale market conditions alongside depositor and investor Short-term wholesale funding was actively managed down to 41.6 behaviour.
Safety and soundness of the balance sheet is one of the central pillars of x The overall size of the liquidity buffer reduced modestly to 147.2 the Groups restructuring strategy.
Effective management of liquidity risk billion from 155.3 billion reflecting the lower levels of short-term is central to the safety and soundness agenda.
The Groups experiences wholesale funding and a smaller balance sheet.
This also allowed in 2008 have heavily influenced both the Groups and other stakeholders the Group to alter the ratio of primary to secondary liquid assets approach to this area.
within the liquidity buffer to 62%:38% from 77%:23%.
This reweighting, by reducing the holdings of the lowest yielding liquid 2012 achievements and looking forward assets, benefited the Groups net interest margin, whilst maintaining The Group continued to make solid progress in pursuit of its safety and a higher quality buffer.
soundness agenda throughout 2012, with the majority of its medium-term balance sheet targets now met or exceeded.
This is despite particularly x Retail & Commercial deposits grew by 8 billion to 401 billion, with volatile wholesale market conditions during most of the year due to particularly strong growth in UK Retail following successful savings ongoing stresses emanating from the eurozone.
Wholesale deposits were allowed to run-off, declining by 11 billion to leave Group deposits 3 billion lower at 434 billion.
The Group has actively reduced short-term wholesale funding and has a lower wholesale funding need compared to earlier years.
Progress has x The Groups loan:deposit ratio improved from 108% in 2011 to reach largely been due to the continued success in executing the Groups managements medium-term target of 100% at 31 December 2012, restructuring efforts, as well as by attracting deposits and continuing to with lending fully funded by customer deposits and a corresponding deleverage via the run down of Non-Core and risk reductions in Markets.
reduction in more volatile short-term wholesale funding.
The Group has a smaller balance sheet that is funded by a diverse and stable deposit base.
x The Group has taken advantage of market conditions through the course of the year to further supplement its capital base.
The Group is expected to have a lower wholesale funding requirement going forward.
The Group will continue to look at accessing the market x RBS Group plc, RBS plc, RBS Citizens Financial Group Inc. and opportunistically from time to time to further support the Groups overall Direct Line Insurance Group plc in aggregate issued 4.8 billion of funding strategy.
Highlights of 2012 include: x The Group successfully undertook two public liability management x The Groups credit profile improved markedly during the year exercises targeting Lower Tier 2 and senior unsecured debt in reflecting the success of its restructuring efforts.
Credit default support of ongoing balance sheet restructuring initiatives.
swaps spreads fell by 60% from their 2011 peak and secondary bond spreads on five year maturity have narrowed from c. 450 basis points to c. 100 basis points.
x The Group repaid all the remaining emergency UK Government funding and liquidity support that was provided to it during 2008- 2009 under the Credit Guarantee Scheme and Special Liquidity Scheme.
unaudited 138 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 139 RBS GROUP 2012 Liquidity risk In the case of the credit rating downgrade by Moodys, the Group was The Group has in place a comprehensive set of policies to manage given adequate notice to plan for such an outcome and challenge liquidity risk that reflects internal risk appetite, best market practice and Moodys analytical approach.
Potential or actual changes in the Groups complies with prevailing regulatory strictures.
These policies have been or any of its subsidiaries ratings prompt an intensive internal review of the comprehensively updated since 2008 reflecting: likelihood and magnitude of such an outcome on customer and counterparty behaviours.
These include stress testing and scenario x the Groups experiences in 2008 and 2009: modelling.
This analysis was reviewed internally and shared with the FSA.
As a precautionary measure the Group increased the size of its x the Groups restructuring plan and revised risk appetite and liquidity buffer in the period leading up the conclusion of the rating review.
framework: Such actions proved unnecessary once Moodys concluded their rating review as there was very limited impact on customer or counterparty x regulatory developments and enhancements: behaviour.
x ongoing instability in global financial markets: and Conversely, the technology event could not be foreseen and whilst similar steps to understand the full impact needed to be taken, the process was x more conservative expectations from the Groups various performed under a vastly compacted timeframe.
demonstrated the considerable progress the Group has made in addressing the sources of liquidity risk and mitigating any impacts, real or These policies are designed to address three broad issues which ensure reputational.
that: Policy, framework and governance x the Groups main legal entities maintain adequate liquidity resources Governance at all times to meet liabilities as and when they fall due: The Group has in place a robust and comprehensive set of policies and procedures for assessing, measuring and controlling the liquidity risk x the Group maintains an adequate liquidity buffer appropriate to the within the Group.
This ensures that the Group always maintain sufficient business activities of the Group and its risk profile: and eligible and appropriate financial resources to meet its forward looking financial commitments as they fall due.
x the Group has in place robust strategies, policies, systems and procedures for identifying, measuring, monitoring and managing The Groups appetite for liquidity risk is set by the Board and then liquidity risk.
managed by various functions within the business.
For example, measurement of the Groups liquidity risk is managed on a daily basis At its simplest, these policies and the governance and actions they within Group Finance, policy compliance and development is managed mandate, determine the sources of liquidity risk and the steps the Group within the Group Risk framework.
can take when these risks exceed certain tolerances which are actively monitored.
These include not only when and how to use the Groups In setting risk limits the Board takes into account the nature of the liquidity buffer but also what other adjustments to the Groups balance Groups various activities, the Groups overall risk appetite, market best sheet could be undertaken to manage these risks within Group appetite.
These policies are reviewed at least annually or sooner if the Groups Analogous provisions and requirements exist for each member of the own liquidity position changes or if market conditions and or regulatory Group, who must comply with both internal standards and local regulatory rules warrant further amendment or refinement.
frameworks for the different jurisdictions in which they operate.
During 2012, the Groups liquidity risk management was tested by two The Groups principal regulator, the FSA, has a comprehensive set of different events, the lowering of the Groups credit rating and the liquidity policies the cornerstone of which is Policy Statement PS 09 16. technology incident.
These two events highlight the variety of In order to comply with the FSA regulatory process, the Group: circumstances and events through which liquidity risk can materialise.
x Must complete and keep updated an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA : x Submit itself to the Supervisory Liquidity Review Process which is a review of the ILAA and the Groups liquidity policies and operational capacity and capability: and x This in turn leads to the Group and the FSA agreeing the parameters of Groups Individual Liquidity Guidance ILG.
Which influences the overall size of the Groups liquidity buffer.
139 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 140 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity risk: Policy, framework and governance continued Liquidity measurement and monitoring The ILAA is the cornerstone of the Groups assessment process and Liquidity risk is measured and assessed on a daily basis at Group level.
informs the Group Board and the FSA of the assessment and The Group uses a set of internal and regulatory metrics and analysis to quantification of the Groups liquidity risks and their mitigation and how assess liquidity risk.
much current and future liquidity is required to manage those risks.
The Group uses limits to manage and control the overall extent of liquidity The Group has identified ten specific liquidity risk factors which range risk within the balance sheet.
Limits focus on the aggregate risk, the from the risk associated with both behavioural and contractual customer amount and composition of particular sources of liabilities, asset liability deposit outflows, through to firm-specific reputational factors that could mismatches and third party counterparty concentrations.
Reported impact the Groups liquidity position from time to time.
balance sheet metrics such as loan:deposit ratio targets or the percentage of short-term wholesale funding are examples of these limits.
In addition, the Group follows the broader market developments in respect of the ongoing evolution of industry and regulatory liquidity risk The Group also uses appropriate transfer pricing of liquidity costs to policies that are currently being debated at an international level and foster appropriate pricing behaviour and decision making.
The Groups adjusts its policies and processes where appropriate.
internal transfer pricing policy helps to manage the balance sheet mix and composition of contingent and actual liabilities and to ensure that Finally, external stakeholders such as market counterparties, debt and liquidity risk is reflected in product pricing and divisional business equity investors and credit rating agencies actively review and challenge performance measurement.
This also ensures that divisions are being the Groups approach, their views being reflected through their ongoing correctly incentivised to source the most appropriate mix of funding.
Stress and scenario testing is used to help inform a broader The Group actively monitors ongoing regulatory developments in the understanding of liquidity risk as well as to model specific liquidity risks international arena.
Whilst most individual country regulators have events, for example the secession of a country from the euro.
implemented or refined specific country liquidity regulations, much work continues at an international level to agree common standards.
The Group actively monitors a range of market and firm-specific early warning indicators of emerging liquidity stresses.
Some of these The majority of this work is conducted under the auspices of the Basel indicators will be actual performance of the business against pre-agreed Committee on Bank Supervision and includes discussion on important limits, for example customer deposit outflows.
Others will be based measures such as the liquidity coverage ratio LCR and the net stable around general or specific market movements such as movements in the funding ratio NSFR.
The Group will always look to proactively adopt Groups credit default swap spreads.
such measures into its reporting capabilities provided that there is an alignment and agreement between domestic and international regulators Liquidity risks are reviewed at legal entity daily, and performance on these issues and specific country regulatory rules are updated to reported to Divisional and Group Asset and Liability Committees.
breach or material deterioration of these metrics will set in motion a series of actions and escalations that could lead to activation of the In January 2013, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued its contingency funding plan.
Any breach of these metrics that subsequently revised draft guidance for calculating the LCR, which is currently means that the Group can no longer comply with its ILG will necessitate expected to come into force from 1 January 2015 on a phased basis.
notification to the FSA and the eventual submission of a liquidity Pending the finalisation of the definitions, the Group monitors the LCR remediation plan.
and the NSFR in its internal reporting framework based on its interpretation and expectation of the final rules.
On this basis, as of 31 The Groups liquidity risk framework is subject to internal oversight, December 2012, the Groups LCR was over 100% and the NSFR 117%.
challenge and governance both at Board level and via internal control functions such as Internal Audit.
The Group is also subject to regulatory At present there is a broad range of interpretations on how to calculate review and challenge from the FSA through its supervisory programme.
the NSFR and, especially, the LCR due to the lack of a commonly agreed market standard.
There are also inconsistencies between the current regulatory approach of the FSA and that being proposed in the LCR with respect to the treatment of unencumbered assets that could be pledged to central banks via a discount window facility.
This makes meaningful comparisons of the LCR between institutions difficult.
The Group will continue to work with regulators and industry groups to measure and report the impact of the rules as they are finalised.
Assumptions will be refined as regulatory interpretations evolve.
140 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 141 RBS GROUP 2012 Stress testing Key liquidity risk stress testing assumptions The strength of any banks liquidity risk management can only be evaluated on the Groups ability to survive under stress.
x Net wholesale funding - Outflows at contractual maturity of wholesale funding and conduit commercial paper, with no Simulated liquidity stress testing is regularly performed for each business rollover new issuance.
Prime Brokerage, 100% loss of excess client as well as the major operating subsidiaries.
Stress tests are designed to derivative margin and 100% loss of excess client cash.
look at the impact of a variety of firm-specific and market-related scenarios on the future adequacy of the Groups liquidity resources.
x Secured financing and increased haircuts - Loss of secured funding Stress tests can be run at any time in response to the emergence of one capacity at contractual maturity date and incremental haircut of these risks.
widening, depending upon collateral type.
Scenarios include assumptions about significant changes in key funding x Retail and commercial bank deposits - Substantial outflows as the sources, external credit ratings, contingent uses of funding, and political Group could be seen as a greater credit risk than competitors.
and economic conditions or events in particular countries.
For example, during 2012 the Group undertook a specific series of stress tests to x Intra-day cashflows - Liquid collateral held against intra-day assess the likely worst case impact associated with a one notch requirement at clearing and payment systems is regarded as downgrade to the Groups credit rating by Moodys.
Stress scenarios are encumbered with no liquidity value assumed.
Liquid collateral is held applied to both on-balance sheet instruments and off-balance sheet against withdrawal of unsecured intra-day lines provided by third activities, to provide a comprehensive view of potential cash flows.
In determining the adequacy of the Groups liquidity resources the Group x Intra-group commitments and support - Risk of cash within focuses on the stressed outflows it could be anticipated to experience as subsidiaries becoming unavailable to the wider Group and a result of any stress scenario occurring.
These outflows are measured contingent calls for funding on Group Treasury from subsidiaries and as occurring over certain time periods which extend from any given day affiliates.
out to two weeks, to as long as three months.
The Group is expected to be able to withstand these stressed outflows through its own resources x Funding concentrations - Additional outflows recognised against principally the use of the liquidity buffer over these time horizons without concentration of providers of wholesale secured financing.
having to revert to extraordinary central bank or governmental assistance.
x Off-balance sheet activities - Collateral outflows due to market movements, and all collateral owed by the Group to counterparties The Groups actual experiences from the 2008 and 2009 period have but not yet called: anticipated increase in firms derivative initial factored heavily into the liquidity analysis in the past, although more margin requirement in stress scenarios: collateral outflows recent market conditions and events provide more up-to-date data for contingent upon a multi-notch credit rating downgrade of Group scenario modelling.
Stress tests are augmented from time to time to firms: drawdown on committed facilities provided to corporates, reflect firm-specific or emerging market risks that could have a material based on counterparty type, creditworthiness and facility type: and impact on the Groups liquidity position.
The Groups liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the x Franchise viability - Group liquidity stress testing includes additional liquidity buffer as a percentage of stressed contractual and behavioural liquidity in order to meet outflows that are non-contractual in nature, outflows under the worst of three severe stress scenarios as envisaged but are necessary in order to support valuable franchise businesses.
Liquidity risk is expressed as a surplus of liquid assets over three months stressed outflows under the worst of a marketx Management action - Unencumbered marketable assets that are wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both.
At 31 held outside of the Core liquidity buffer and are of verifiable liquidity December 2012, the Groups holding of liquid assets was 128% of the value to the firm, are assumed to be monetised subject to worst case stress requirements.
The results of stress testing are an active part of management and strategy in balance sheet management and inform allocation, target and limit discussions.
In short, limits in the business-as-usual environment are bounded by capacity to satisfy the Groups liquidity needs in the stress environments.
unaudited 141 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 142 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity risk continued The primary liquidity group generally reflects eligible liquid assets, such Contingency planning as cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other high The Group has a Contingency Funding Plan CFP, which is updated as quality government and agency bonds, and other local primary qualifying the balance sheet evolves and forms the basis of analysis and actions to liquid assets for each of the significant operating subsidiaries that remediate adverse circumstances as and if they arise.
The CFP is linked maintain a local liquidity pool.
to stress test results and forms the foundation for liquidity risk limits.
The CFP provides a detailed description of the availability, size and timing of Secondary liquidity assets represent other qualifying liquid assets that are all sources of contingent liquidity available to the Group in a stress event.
eligible for local central bank liquidity facilities but do not meet the core These are ranked in order of economic impact and effectiveness to meet local regulatory definition.
For example, secondary liquid assets include the anticipated stress requirement.
The CFP includes documented self-issued securitisations or covered bonds that are retained on balance processes for actions that may be required to meet the outflows.
Roles sheet and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they can be and responsibilities for the effective implementation of the CFP are also converted into additional sources of liquidity at very short notice.
The Group in consultation with the FSA and subject to the requirements Liquidity reserves of the FSAs ILG can change the composition of its liquidity buffer.
The Liquidity risks are mitigated by the Groups centrally managed liquidity change in composition may relate to market specific factors, changes in buffer.
The size of the reserve is an output from internal modelling and internal liquidity risk mix or regulatory guidance.
This occurred in 2012 the FSAs ILG.
The majority of the portfolio is held in the FSA regulated when the FSA agreed to recognise an increase in the amount of UK Defined Liquidity Group UK DLG comprising the Groups five UK secondary liquidity assets and a reduction in primary assets.
Such a banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, change was made possible in conjunction with the introduction of the Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and Adam & Company.
The reduction in the balance of primary assets was also beneficial to the Groups margin.
Certain of the Group's significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. RBS Citizens Financial Group Inc. CFG and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited - Regulatory oversight hold locally managed portfolios of liquid assets that comply with local The Group operates in multiple jurisdictions and is subject to a number of regulations but may differ with FSA rules.
These portfolios are the regulatory regimes.
responsibility of the local Treasurer who reports to the Group Treasurer.
The Groups lead regulator is the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
The Groups liquidity buffer is managed by Group Treasury and is the The FSA implemented a new liquidity regime as documented in PS responsibility of the Group Treasurer.
The liquidity buffer is ring-fenced 09 16, on 1 June 2010.
The new rules provide a standardised approach from the trading book within the Markets division.
The liquidity buffer is applied to all UK banks and all building societies as well as branches and actively managed so as to balance its liquidity value relative to the margin subsidiaries of foreign financial firms.
The rules focus on the UK DLG and impact of maintaining a large and high quality investment portfolio.
This is cover adequacy of liquidity resources, controls, stress testing and the in line with internal liquidity risk policy and appetite and regulatory Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment.
The portfolio is accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The value of the portfolio can move up and down based on a variety of In addition, in the US, the Groups operations must meet liquidity market movements.
Gains can and will be taken through sales of requirements set out by the US Federal Reserve Bank, the Office of the portfolios.
Such sales and gains are part of normal portfolio management Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and these gains can be used to offset costs in other parts of the Group.
and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
In the Netherlands, RBS N. V. is subject to the fide Nederlandsche Bank liquidity oversight regime.
The Group analyses its liquidity buffer including its locally managed liquidity pools into primary and secondary liquidity groups.
142 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 143 RBS GROUP 2012 Funding risk Central bank funding As noted earlier, the Group actively participates in the broader The Group may access various funding facilities offered by central banks international debate and process regarding further reform and refinement from time to time.
The use of such facilities can be both part of a wider of liquidity risk oversight and policies, and will seek to adopt commonly strategic objective to support initiatives to help stimulate economic growth agreed upon measures where there is consistent alignment between or as part of the Groups broader liquidity management and funding domestic and international regulators.
Overall usage and repayment of available central bank facilities will fit within the Groups overall liquidity risk appetite and concentration Funding sources limits contained therein so as not to create outsized maturity exposures.
The Group has access to a variety of wholesale funding sources across the globe, including short-term money markets and term debt investors During 2012, the Group drew down 10 billion of funding under the through its secured and unsecured funding programmes.
These sources European Central Banks Long Term Refinancing Operation and 750 of funding are complementary to the Groups customer deposit gathering million of treasury bills under the Bank of Englands Funding for Lending activities.
Diversity in funding is provided by its active role in the money markets, Balance sheet composition along with access to global capital flows through the Groups international The Groups balance sheet composition is a function of the broad array of client base.
These funding programmes allow the Group or its product offerings and diverse markets served by its Core divisions.
The subsidiaries to issue secured or unsecured, senior or subordinated structural composition of the balance sheet is augmented as needed securities.
Over time the Groups wholesale funding franchise has been through active management of both asset and liability portfolios.
The diversified by currency, geography, maturity and type.
objective of these activities is to optimise the liquidity profile in normal business environments, while ensuring adequate coverage of all cash The Group accesses the market directly or through one of its main requirements under extreme stress conditions.
operating subsidiaries through established funding programmes.
The use of different entities to access the market from time to time allows the Diversification of the Groups funding base is central to its balance sheet Group to further diversify its funding profile, take advantage of different management strategy.
The Groups businesses have developed large benefits offered by using these entities, and in certain limited customer franchises based on strong relationship management and high circumstances demonstrate to regulators that specific operating quality service.
These customer franchises are strongest in the UK, the subsidiaries enjoy market access in their own right.
This flexibility will US and Ireland, but extend into Europe and Asia.
Customer deposits become increasingly important in the future as the Group moves towards provide large pools of stable funding to support the majority of the complying with the Independent Commission on Banking Groups lending.
The Group also accesses wholesale markets by way of public and private debt issuances on an unsecured and secured basis.
These debt issuance programmes are spread across multiple currencies and maturities, to appeal to a broad range of investor types and preferences around the world.
This market-based funding supplements the Groups structural liquidity needs and, in some cases, achieves certain capital objectives.
unaudited 143 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:47 Page 144 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity and funding risk: Analyses Funding sources The table below shows the Groups principal funding sources excluding repurchase agreements.
Short-term wholesale funding 1 Total wholesale funding Net inter-bank funding 2 Excluding Including Excluding Including Net derivative derivative derivative derivative inter-bank collateral collateral collateral collateral Deposits Loans 3 funding bn bn bn bn bn bn bn 2012 41.6 70.2 150.4 179.0 28.5 18.6 9.9 2011 102.4 134.2 226.2258.1 37.3 24.3 13.0 2010 129.7 157.8 283.7 311.7 38.2 31.3 6.9 Notes: 1 Short-term wholesale balances denote those with a residual maturity of less than one year and include longer-term issuances.
Notes issued The table below shows the Groups debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities by residual maturity.
2012 2011 2010 Deposits Repos Deposits Repos Deposits Repos m m m m m m Financial institutions - central and other banks 57,074 44,332 69,114 39,691 66,317 32,739 - other financial institutions 64,237 86,968 66,009 86,032 65,532 75,782 Personal and corporate deposits 369,755 1,072 370,744 2,780 365,334 6,312 491,066 132,372 505,867 128,503 497,183 114,833 173 billion or 40% of the customer deposits included above are insured through the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme, US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Scheme and other similar schemes.
Of the personal and corporate deposits above, 42% related to personal customers and 58% to corporate customers.
Divisional loan:deposit ratios and funding gaps The table below shows divisional loans, deposits, customer loan:deposit ratios and customer funding gaps.
2 Excludes repurchase agreements and stock lending.
3 Based on loans and advances to customers net of provisions and customer deposits as shown.
4 All conduits relate to International Banking and have been extracted and shown separately as they were funded by commercial paper issuance until the end of the third quarter of 2012.
Long-term debt issuance The table below shows debt securities issued by the Group during the year with an original maturity of one year or more.
The Group also executes other long-term funding arrangements predominantly term repurchase agreements which are not reflected in the following table.
146 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 147 RBS GROUP 2012 Liquidity Liquidity portfolio The table below analyses the Groups liquidity portfolio by product and between the UK Defined Liquidity Group UK DLG, RBS Citizens Financial Group Inc. CFG and other subsidiaries, by liquidity value.
Liquidity value is lower than carrying value principally as it is stated after the discounts applied by the Bank of England and other central banks to loans, within secondary liquidity portfolio, eligible for discounting.
147 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 148 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity and funding risk: Analyses: Liquidity continued Liquidity value Period end UK DLG 1 CFG Other Total 2010 m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 43,804 2,314 7,543 53,661 Central and local government bonds AAA rated governments and US agencies 32,337 4,830 4,268 41,435 AAto AA rated governments 2 2,404 1,340 3,744 governments rated below AA 1,029 1,029 local government 5,672 5,672 34,741 4,830 12,309 51,880 Treasury bills 14,529 14,529 Primary liquidity 93,074 7,144 19,852 120,070 Other assets 3 AAA rated 7,787 10,049 17,836 below AAA rated and other high quality assets 8,313 4,601 3,779 16,693 Secondary liquidity 16,100 4,601 13,828 34,529 Total liquidity portfolio 109,174 11,745 33,680 154,599 Carrying value 120,178 18,055 40,857 179,090 Notes: 1 The FSA regulated UK Defined Liquidity Group UK DLG comprises the Groups five UK banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and Adam & Company.
In addition, certain of the Group's significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. RBS Citizens Financial Group Inc. CFG and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited UBIL - hold locally managed portfolios of liquid assets that comply with local regulations that may differ from FSA rules.
2 Includes US government guaranteed and US government sponsored agencies.
3 Includes assets eligible for discounting at the Bank of England and other central banks.
148 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 149 RBS GROUP 2012 Net stable funding ratio The table below shows the composition of the Groups net stable funding ratio NSFR, estimated by applying the Basel III guidance issued in December 2010.
The Groups NSFR will also continue to be refined over time in line with regulatory developments and related interpretations.
It may also be calculated on a basis that may differ from other financial institutions.
2 Deferred tax, insurance liabilities and other liabilities.
3 Prepayments, accrued income, deferred tax, settlement balances and other assets.
Key point x NSFR improved from 111% at 31 December 2011 to 117% at the end of 2012.
Long-term wholesale funding declined by 15 billion in line with Markets' strategy, and funding requirement relating to long-term lending decreased by 37 billion, reflecting fide-risking, sales and repayments in Non-Core.
unaudited 149 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 150 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity and funding risk: Analyses continued Maturity analysis The contractual maturity of balance sheet assets and liabilities highlights the maturity transformation which underpins the role of banks to lend longterm, but to fund themselves predominantly through short-term liabilities such as customer deposits.
This is achieved through the diversified funding franchise of the Group across an extensive customer base, and across a wide geographic network.
In practice, the behavioural profiles of many liabilities exhibit greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
This is particularly true of many types of retail and corporate deposits which whilst may be repayable on demand or at short notice, have demonstrated very stable characteristics even in periods of acute stress such as those experienced in 2008.
Retail & Commercial The table below illustrates the contractual and behavioural maturity analysis of Retail & Commercial customer deposits.
Less than More than 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total bn bn bn bn Contractual maturity 381 20 1 402 Behavioural maturity 146 219 37 402 Contractual maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
Held-for-trading HFT assets and liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis in view of their short-term nature and are shown in total in the table below.
Hedging derivatives are included within the relevant maturity bands.
unaudited 150 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 151 RBS GROUP 2012 Encumbrance x already encumbered and used to support funding currently in place The Group reviews all assets against the criteria of being able to finance via own asset securitisations, covered bonds and securities them in a secured form encumbrance but certain asset types lend repurchase agreements.
themselves more readily to encumbrance.
The typical characteristics that support encumbrance are an ability to pledge those assets to another x not currently encumbered but can for instance be used to access counterparty or entity through operation of law without necessarily funding from market counterparties or central bank facilities as part requiring prior notification, homogeneity, predictable and measurable of the Groups contingency funding.
cash flows, and a consistent and uniform underwriting and collection process.
Retail assets including residential mortgages, credit card x not currently encumbered.
In this category, the Group has in place receivables and personal loans display many of these features.
an enablement programme which seeks to identify assets which are capable of being encumbered and to identify the actions to facilitate From time to time the Group encumbers assets to serve as collateral to such encumbrance whilst not impacting customer relationships or support certain wholesale funding initiatives.
The three principal forms of servicing.
encumbrance are own asset securitisations, covered bonds and securities repurchase agreements.
The Group categorises its assets into The Groups encumbrance ratios are set out below.
three broad groups: assets that are: 2012 2011 Encumbrance ratios % % Total 18 19 Excluding balances relating to derivative transactions 22 26 Excluding balances relating to derivative and securities financing transactions 13 19 Own-asset securitisations Securities repurchase agreements and lending transactions The Group has a programme of own-asset securitisations where assets The Group enters into securities repurchase agreements and securities are transferred to bankruptcy remote special purpose entities SPEs lending transactions repos under which it transfers securities in funded by the issue of debt securities.
The majority of the risks and accordance with normal market practice.
Generally, the agreements rewards of the portfolio are retained by the Group and these SPEs are require additional collateral to be provided if the value of the securities consolidated and all of the transferred assets retained on the Groups falls below a predetermined level.
Under standard terms for repurchase balance sheet.
In some own-asset securitisations, the Group may transactions in the UK and US markets, the recipient of collateral has an purchase all the issued securities which are available to be pledged as unrestricted right to sell or repledge it, subject to returning equivalent collateral for repurchase agreements with major central banks.
The securities on settlement of the transaction.
Securities sold under following table shows the asset categories together with the carrying repurchase transactions are not derecognised if the Group retains amounts of the assets and associated liabilities, for both own-asset substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
The fair value which securitisations where the debt securities issued are held by third parties is equivalent to the carrying value of securities transferred under such and those where the debt securities issued are held by the Group.
repurchase transactions included within debt securities on the balance sheet are set out below.
All of these securities could be sold or repledged Covered bond programme by the holder.
Certain loans and advances to customers have been assigned to bankruptcy remote limited liability partnerships to provide security for issues of covered bonds by the Group.
The Group retains all of the risks and rewards associated with these loans, the partnerships are consolidated, the loans retained on the Groups balance sheet and the related covered bonds in issue included within debt securities in issue.
The following table shows the asset categories and the carrying amounts of those assets and of the covered bonds issued.
151 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 152 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity and funding risk: Analyses: Encumbrance continued Assets encumbrance Encumbered assets relating to: Debt securities in issue Other secured liabilities Total Encumbered Securitisations Covered Secured encumbered assets as a Liquidity and conduits bonds Derivatives Repos borrowings assets % of related portfolio Other Total bn bn bn bn bn bn total assets bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 5.3 0.5 5.8 7 70.2 3.3 79.3 Loans and advances to banks 1 12.8 12.8 41 18.5 31.3 Loans and advances to customers 1 - UK residential mortgages 16.4 16.0 32.4 30 58.7 18.0 109.1 - Irish residential mortgages 10.6 1.8 12.4 81 2.9 15.3 - US residential mortgages 7.6 14.1 21.7 - UK credit cards 3.0 3.0 44 3.8 6.8 - UK personal loans 4.7 4.7 41 6.8 11.5 - other 20.7 22.5 0.8 44.0 16 6.5 217.1 267.6 Debt securities 1.0 8.3 91.2 15.2 115.7 70 22.3 26.6 164.6 Equity shares 0.7 6.8 7.5 49 7.7 15.2 61.7 16.5 44.3 98.0 17.8 238.3 165.3 318.8 722.4 Own asset securitisations 22.6 Total liquidity portfolio 187.9 Liabilities secured Intra-Group - used for secondary liquidity 22.6 22.6 Intra-Group - other 23.9 23.9 Third-party 2 12.0 10.1 60.4 132.4 15.3 230.2 58.5 10.1 60.4 132.4 15.3 276.7 Total assets 1,312 Total assets excluding derivatives 870 Total assets excluding derivatives and reverse repos 766 Notes: 1 Excludes reverse repos.
2 In accordance with market practice the Group employs its own assets and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
Key points x The Groups encumbrance ratio dropped marginally from 19% to x 30% of the Groups residential mortgage portfolio was encumbered 18%.
152 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 153 RBS GROUP 2012 Non-traded interest rate risk refinancing incentives and the risks associated with structural hedges of Introduction and methodology interest rate insensitive balances, which relates to the stability of the Non-traded interest rate risk impacts earnings arising from the Groups underlying portfolio.
This excludes positions in financial instruments which are classified as held-for-trading, or hedging items.
Key measures used to evaluate IRRBB are subject to approval by divisional Asset and Liability Management Committees ALCOs and The Group provides a range of financial products to meet a variety of GALCO.
Limits on IRRBB are proposed by the Group Treasurer for customer requirements.
These products differ with regard to repricing approval by the Executive Risk Forum annually.
Residual risk positions frequency, tenor, indexation, prepayments, optionality and other features.
are reported on a regular basis to divisional ALCOs and monthly to the When aggregated, they form portfolios of assets and liabilities with Group Balance Sheet Management Committee, GALCO, the Executive varying degrees of sensitivity to changes in market rates.
Risk Forum and the Group Board.
Mismatches in these sensitivities give rise to net interest income NII The Group uses a variety of approaches to quantify its interest rate risk volatility as interest rates rise and fall.
For example, a bank with a floating encompassing both earnings and value metrics.
IRRBB is measured rate loan portfolio and largely fixed rate deposits will see its net interest using a version of the same value-at-risk VaR methodology that is used income rise, as interest rates rise and fall as rates decline.
Due to the for the Groups trading portfolios.
Net interest income exposures are long-term nature of many banking book portfolios, varied interest rate measured in terms of earnings sensitivity over time against movements in repricing characteristics and maturities, it is likely the NII will vary from interest rates.
period to period, even if interest rates remain the same.
New business volumes originated in any period, will alter the interest rate sensitivity of a Analyses bank if the resulting portfolio differs from portfolios originated in prior Value-at-risk periods.
VaR metrics are based on interest rate repricing gap reports as at the reporting date.
These incorporate customer products and associated The Group policy is to manage interest rate sensitivity in banking book funding and hedging transactions as well as non-financial assets and portfolios within defined risk limits.
With the exception of CFG and liabilities such as property, plant and equipment, capital and reserves.
Markets, interest rate risk is transferred from the divisions to Group Behavioural assumptions are applied as appropriate.
Aggregate positions are then hedged externally using cash and derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, to manage The VaR does not provide a dynamic measurement of interest rate risk exposures within Group Asset and Liability Management Committee since static underlying repricing gap positions are assumed.
Changes in GALCO approved limits.
customer behaviour under varying interest rate scenarios are captured by way of earnings risk measures.
IRRBB VaR for the Groups Retail and The Group assesses interest rate risk in the banking book IRRBB using Commercial banking activities at 99% confidence level and currency a set of standards to define, measure and report the risk.
These analysis of period end VaR were as follows: standards incorporate the expected divergence between contractual terms and the actual behaviour of fixed rate loan portfolios due to Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m 2012 46 21 65 20 2011 63 51 80 44 2010 58 96 96 30 2012 2011 2010 m m m Euro 19 26 33 Sterling 17 57 79 US dollar 15 61 121 Other 4 5 10 Key points x Interest rate exposure at 31 December 2012 was considerably lower x It is estimated that the change in methodology reduced VaR by than at 31 December 2011 and average exposure was 27% lower in 13.8 million 33% on implementation.
2012 than in 2011. x The reduction in VaR seen across all currencies reflects closer matching of the Groups structural interest rate hedges to the behavioural maturity profile of the hedged liabilities as well as changes to the VaR methodology refer to page 244 for more details on VaR methodology improvement.
153 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 154 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity and funding risk: Analyses: Non-traded interest rate risk continued Sensitivity of net interest income The following table shows the sensitivity of net interest income, over the Earnings sensitivity to rate movements is derived from a central forecast next twelve months, to an immediate upward or downward change of 100 over a twelve month period.
Market implied forward rates and new basis points to all interest rates.
In addition, the table includes the impact business volume, mix and pricing consistent with business assumptions of a gradual 400 basis point steepening and a gradual 300 basis point are used to generate a base case earnings forecast.
flattening of the yield curve at tenors greater than a year.
Euro Sterling US dollar Other Total 2012 m m m m m 100 basis points shift in yield curves 29 472 119 27 589 100 basis points shift in yield curves 20 257 29 11 317 Bear steepener 216 Bull flattener 77 2011 100 basis points shift in yield curves 19 190 59 14 244 100 basis points shift in yield curves 25 188 4 16 183 Bear steepener 443 Bull flattener 146 2010 100 basis points shift in yield curves 25 186 11 10 232 100 basis points shift in yield curves 33 212 99 8 352 Bear steepener 30 Bull flattener 22 Key points x The Groups interest rate exposure remains asset sensitive, in that x The impact of the steepening and flattening scenarios is largely rising rates have a positive impact on net interest margins.
The driven by the reinvestment of structural hedges.
The year on year scale of this benefit has increased since 2011. change reflected a change to a longer term hedging programme implemented in 2010. x The primary contributors to the increased sensitivity to a 100 basis points parallel shift in the yield curve are changes to underlying x The reported sensitivities will vary over time due to a number of business pricing assumptions and assumptions in respect of the risk factors such as market conditions and strategic changes to the of early repayment of consumer loans and deposits.
The latter balance sheet mix and should not therefore be considered predictive incorporates revisions to pricing strategies and consumer behaviour.
unaudited 154 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 155 RBS GROUP 2012 Currency risk Structural foreign currency exposures The Group does not maintain material non-traded open currency positions other than the structural foreign currency translation exposures arising from its investments in foreign subsidiaries and associated undertakings and their related currency funding.
The table below shows the Groups structural foreign currency exposures.
Key points x The Groups structural foreign currency exposure at 31 December x In 2012, the Group recorded a loss through other comprehensive 2012 was 24.0 billion and 17.9 billion before and after economic income of 0.9 billion due to the strengthening of sterling against the hedges respectively, broadly unchanged from the end of 2011.
x Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect equity in proportion to structural foreign currency exposure.
A 5% strengthening in foreign currency against sterling would result in a gain of 1.3 billion 2011 and 2010 - 1.3 billion in equity, while a 5% weakening would result in a loss of 1.1 billion 2011 and 2010 - 1.2 billion in equity.
155 GRA12 3c Liquidity & Funding 137 156 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:48 Page 156 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Liquidity and funding risk: Analyses continued The risk arising from these holdings is mitigated by proper controls and Non-traded equity risk identification of risk prior to investing.
Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the Groups non-trading income and reserves arising from changes in equity valuations.
Valuation At Group level, positions are monitored by and reported quarterly to Objective GALCO.
Equity positions in the non-traded book are held to support strategic objectives and venture capital transactions, or in respect of customer Equity positions are measured at fair value.
Fair value calculations are restructuring arrangements.
based on available market prices where possible.
In the event that market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate Risk control framework valuation techniques or management estimates.
The commercial decision to take or hold equity positions in the nontrading book, including customer restructurings, is taken by authorised The following table shows the balance sheet value and fair value of the persons with delegated authority under the Group credit approval Groups non-traded book equity positions.
Investments or disposals of a strategic nature are referred to the Group Acquisitions and Disposals Committee ADCo, Group Executive Committee ExCo, and where appropriate the Board for approval.
Those involving the purchase or sale by the Group of subsidiary companies require Board approval, after consideration by ExCo and or ADCo.
Balance Balance sheet value Fair value sheet value Fair value 2012 2012 2011 2011 m m m m Exchange-traded equity 472 472 576 576 Private equity 632 632 674 674 Other 799 799 1,094 1,094 1,903 1,903 2,344 2,344 The exposures may take the form of listed and unlisted equity shares, linked equity fund investments, private equity and venture capital investments, preference shares classified as equity or Federal Home Loan Bank stock.
The following table shows the net realised and unrealised gains from these positions: 2012 2011 m m Net realised gains arising from disposals 89 150 Unrealised gains included in Tier 1, 2 or 3 capital 168 235 Note: 1 Includes gains or losses on available-for-sale instruments only.
Cumulative gains on equity shares designated at fair value through profit or loss but not held for trading purposes were 84 million at 31 December 2012 2011 - 230 million.
Refer to additional analysis of equity shares in Balance sheet analysis on page 218.
156 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 157 Credit risk Introduction 158 Top and emerging credit risks 158 Business review Objectives, organisation and governance 159 Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk management framework 160 Contents Risk appetite and concentration risk management 160 Product asset class 160 Sector concentration 161 Single-name concentration 161 Country 161 Controls and assurance 161 Credit risk measurement Probability of default customer credit grade 162 Exposure at default models 162 Loss given default models 162 Changes to wholesale credit risk models 162 Credit risk assets 163 Divisional analysis 163 Sector and geographical regional analyses 164 Asset quality 166 Credit risk mitigation 168 Approaches and methodologies 168 Secured portfolios 168 Corporate exposures 168 Commercial real estate 169 Other corporate 169 Wholesale market exposures 170 Retail 170 Residential mortgages 170 Early problem identification and problem debt management 172 Wholesale customers 172 Early problem recognition 172 Watchlist 172 Global Restructuring Group 172 Wholesale renegotiations 173 Wholesale renegotiations during the year by sector 174 Renegotiation arrangements 174 Provisioning for wholesale renegotiated customers 175 Recoveries and active insolvency management 175 Retail customers 176 Collections and recoveries 176 Retail forbearance 176 Identification of forbearance 176 Types of retail forbearance 176 Arrears status and provisions 177 Forbearance arrangements 177 Unsecured portfolios 179 Provisioning for retail customers 179 Impairment loss provision methodology 179 Key credit portfolios 181 Commercial real estate 181 Residential mortgages 186 Personal lending 189 Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core 190 157 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 158 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Credit risk Commercial real estate Introduction While progress has been made in reducing the overall exposure and Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a customer or rebalancing the portfolio, commercial real estate remains a key credit counterparty to meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
The concentration risk for the Group.
The Group has continued to strengthen credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and retail its approach to managing sector concentration risk, with a particular focus lending, provision of contingent obligations such as letters of credit and on additional controls for the commercial real estate portfolio.
guarantees and counterparty credit risk arising from derivative contracts and securities financing transactions entered into with customers.
Other However, the credit performance remains sensitive to the economic material risks covered by the Groups credit risk management framework environment in the UK and Ireland.
Although some improvements have are: been seen in commercial real estate values across prime locations, secondary and tertiary values remain subdued.
x Concentration risk - the risk of an outsized loss due to the concentration of credit risk to a specific asset class or product, Refinancing risk remains a focus of management attention and is industry sector, customer or counterparty, or country.
assessed throughout the credit risk management life cycle.
In particular, it is considered as part of the early problem recognition and impairment x Settlement risk - the intra-day risk that arises when the Group assessment processes.
releases funds prior to confirmed receipt of value from a third party.
Further details on the Groups exposure to commercial real estate can be x Issuer risk - the risk of loss on a tradable instrument e. g. a bond found on pages 181 to 185. due to default by the issuer.
Eurozone troubles x Wrong way risk - the risk of loss that arises when the risk factors The ongoing impact of the troubles in the eurozone continued to be felt driving the exposure to a counterparty are positively correlated with most significantly in the banking sector, where widening credit spreads the probability of default for that counterparty.
and regulatory demand for increases in Tier 1 capital and liquidity exacerbated the risk management challenges already posed by the x Credit mitigation risk - the risk that credit risk mitigation for example, sectors continued weakness, as provisions and write-downs remain taking a legal charge over property to secure a customer loan is not elevated.
enforceable or that the value of such mitigation decreases, thus leading to unanticipated losses.
A material percentage of global banking activity in risk mitigation now passes through the balance sheets of the top global players, increasing Top and emerging credit risks the systemic risks to the banking sector.
The Groups exposures to these The quantum and nature of credit risk assumed across the Groups banks continue to be closely managed.
In particular, the Group has different businesses vary considerably, while the overall credit risk intensified its management of settlement risk through ongoing review of outcome usually exhibits a high degree of correlation with the the level of risk and the operational controls in place to manage it, macroeconomic environment.
The Group therefore remains sensitive to together with proactive actions to reduce limits.
The weaker banks in the the economic conditions within the geographies in which it operates, in eurozone also remained subject to heightened scrutiny and the Groups particular the UK, Ireland, the US and the eurozone.
risk appetite for these banks was adjusted throughout 2012.
The following credit risks continue to be the focus of management The Group has continued to focus on operational preparations for attention.
possible sovereign defaults and or eurozone exits.
The Group has also considered initiatives to determine and reduce redenomination risk.
Irish property market Further actions to mitigate risks and strengthen control in the eurozone The continuing challenging economic climate within Ireland has resulted typically included taking guarantees or insurance, updating collateral in impairment levels for Irish portfolios remaining at elevated levels.
In agreements, and tightening certain credit pre-approval processes.
particular, high unemployment, austerity measures and general economic uncertainty have reduced real estate lease rentals.
This, together with The Group has a material exposure to Spanish AFS debt securities limited liquidity, has depressed asset values and reduced consumer issued by banks and other financial institutions of 4.8 billion at 31 spending with a consequent downward impact on the commercial real December, predominately comprised of covered bonds backed by estate portfolio as well as broader impacts on Ulster Bank Groups mortgages.
Whilst the exposure was reduced by 1.6 billion during 2012, mortgage and small and medium enterprise SME lending portfolios.
largely as a result of sales, the portfolio continues to be subject to Further details on Ulster Bank Groups credit risk profile can be found on heightened scrutiny, including undertaking stress analysis.
Further details on the Groups approach to managing country risk and the risks faced within the eurozone can be found on pages 252 to 280. unaudited 158 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 159 RBS GROUP 2012 Shipping Objectives, organisation and governance The downturn observed in the shipping sector since 2008 has continued, The existence of a strong credit risk management function is vital to with an oversupply of vessels leading to lower asset prices and charter support the ongoing profitability of the Group.
The potential for loss rates.
The Group has continued to manage exposures within this portfolio through economic cycles is mitigated through the embedding of a robust intensively, with an increasing number of customers managed under the credit risk culture within the business units and through a focus on the Groups Watchlist process see page 172 for a description of this importance of sustainable lending practices.
The role of the RBS credit process.
The financed fleet comprises modern vessels with experienced risk management function is to own the credit approval, concentration operators and despite the difficult market conditions impairments to date and credit risk control frameworks and to act as the ultimate authority for have remained low.
However, impairment levels remain vulnerable to a the approval of credit.
This, together with strong independent oversight continuing underperforming market.
and challenge, enables the business to maintain a sound lending environment within approved risk appetite.
Further details on the Groups shipping portfolio can be found on page 166.
Responsibility for development of, and compliance with, Group-wide policies and credit risk frameworks and Group-wide assessment of Retailers provision adequacy resides with the Group Credit Risk GCR function Given the cyclical nature of the retail corporate sector and its sensitivity to under the management of the Group Chief Credit Officer.
Execution of stressed economic conditions, the Group has continued to apply these policies and frameworks is the responsibility of the risk heightened scrutiny to this portfolio.
Despite some high-profile failures of management functions, located within the Groups business divisions.
UK high street retailers, loss experience on the RBS retail portfolio remained low during 2012 as a result of active management.
The The divisional credit risk management functions work together with GCR portfolio is generally well diversified by geography and by counterparty.
to ensure that the risk appetite set by the Group Board is met, within a clearly defined and managed control environment.
The credit risk function Central counterparties CCPs within each division is managed by a Chief Credit Officer, who reports New regulation requiring greater use of CCPs for clearing over-thejointly to a divisional Chief Risk Officer and to the Group Chief Credit counter derivatives across the industry is aimed at reducing systemic risk Officer.
Divisional activities within credit risk include credit approval, in the banking sector.
RBS welcomes this move but recognises that the transaction and portfolio analysis, ongoing credit risk stewardship, and Groups concentration risk to CCPs will rise: thus exchanging early problem recognition and management.
concentration risk to individual counterparties for concentration risk to CCPs.
CCPs are vulnerable to a significant member default, fraud and Material aspects of the Groups credit risk management framework, such increased operational risk if their infrastructure and collateral as credit risk appetite and limits for portfolios of strategic significance, are management approaches are not developed commensurate with considered and approved by the Executive Risk Forum ERF.
The ERF increased activity they undertake.
has delegated approval authority to the Group Credit Risk Committee, a functional sub-committee of the Group Risk Committee, to act on credit In response to this industry change, the Group has developed a tailored risk matters.
These include, but are not limited to, credit risk appetite and risk appetite and risk control framework.
The Groups central counterparty limits within the overall risk appetite set by the Board and the ERF, exposure is dominated by a small number of well-established, high credit risk strategy and frameworks, credit risk policy and the oversight of quality and reputable clearing houses.
the credit profile across the Group.
Renegotiations and forbearance The Group Credit Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Credit Loan modifications take place in a variety of circumstances including but Officer and has representation from each of the Groups divisional credit not limited to a customers current or potential credit deterioration.
Monthly updates are provided to the Group Risk the contractual payment terms of a loan have been changed because of Committee on key matters approved under delegated authority by the the customers financial difficulties, it is classified as renegotiated in the Group Credit Risk Committee, performance against limits, and emerging wholesale portfolio and as forbearance in the retail portfolio.
issues, to enable it to fulfil its role as an oversight committee.
RBS uses renegotiations and forbearance as management tools to Oversight of the Groups provision adequacy is provided by the Group support viable customers through difficult financial periods in their lives or Audit Committee.
Used wisely, they can reduce the incidence of personal insolvency, as well as bankruptcies for otherwise successful Key trends in the credit risk profile of the Group, performance against enterprises.
On a broader scale they can also help reduce the impact of limits and emerging risks are set out in the RBS Risk Management fire sale pricing on real economic assets.
However, they must be used Monthly Report provided to the Group Board, the Executive Committee selectively and require additional management vigilance throughout the and the Board Risk Committee.
The Group has continued to take steps to improve its management and reporting of such loans within both corporate and retail businesses.
More details of the Groups approach can be found on pages 173 to 180.
159 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 160 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Credit risk management framework During 2012, the credit risk function expanded the scope of its credit risk The Group has established an appropriate and comprehensive appetite controls through the active management of non-financial risks in framework for the management of credit risk that includes governance the Groups lending decisions.
The development of Environmental, Social structures, risk appetite and concentration frameworks, policies, and Ethical ESE risk policies for sectors considered to present a higher measurement and reporting tools and independent assurance.
reputational risk such as the defence, oil and gas sectors provide a framework within which the Group can better manage its reputational In order to strengthen this framework and ensure consistent application risks.
This ESE framework forms part of a wider initiative by the Group to across the Group, during 2012 the GCR function launched a set of credit improve reputational risk management and build trust with its control standards, to supplement the existing policy suite.
These stakeholders for more information on reputational risk management, standards address divisional governance and policy requirements and refer to page 291. reflect a set of behavioural, organisational and management norms that drive a sound divisional control environment and embed a strong risk Product asset class culture.
x Retail - A formal framework establishes Group-level statements and thresholds that are cascaded through all retail franchises in the Risk appetite and concentration risk management Group and to granular business lines.
These include measures that Risk appetite has been expressed by the Group Board through the relate both to aggregate portfolios and to asset quality at origination, setting of specific quantitative risk appetite targets under stress refer to which are tracked frequently to ensure consistency with Group page 121.
Of particular relevance in the management of credit risk are standards and appetite.
This appetite setting and tracking then the targets for earnings volatility and capital adequacy.
The Groups informs the processes and parameters employed in origination credit risk framework has therefore been designed around the factors that activities, which require a large volume of small-scale credit influence the Groups ability to meet these targets.
These include the decisions, particularly those involving an application for a new limiting of excess credit risk concentrations by product asset class, product or a change in facilities on an existing product.
The majority industry sector, customer or counterparty i. e. single name and country of these decisions are based upon automated strategies utilising any of which could generate higher volatility under stress and, if not credit and behaviour scoring techniques.
Scores and strategies are adequately controlled, can undermine capital adequacy.
typically segmented by product, brand and other significant drivers of credit risk.
These scores and strategies are data driven and utilise The frameworks are supported by a suite of Group-wide and divisional a wide range of credit information relating to the customer including, policies that set out the risk parameters within which business units must where appropriate, information on the customers credit performance operate.
across their existing account holdings both with the bank and with other lenders.
A small number of credit decisions are subject to The management of concentration risk and associated limits are firmly additional manual underwriting by authorised approvers in specialist embedded in the risk management processes of the Group and form a units.
These include higher-value, more complex, small business pivotal part of the Risk functions engagement with the businesses on the and personal unsecured transactions and some residential appropriateness of risk appetite choices.
The ERF, or delegated mortgage applications.
committee, has reviewed all material industry and product portfolios and agreed a risk appetite commensurate with the franchises represented in x Wholesale - Formal policies, specialised tools and expertise, tailored these reviews.
In particular, limits have been reviewed and re-sized, to monitoring and reporting and, in certain cases, specific limits and refine the Groups risk appetite in areas where it faces significant balance thresholds are deployed to address certain lines of business across sheet concentrations or franchise challenges.
The need to control the Group, where the nature of credit risk incurred could represent a concentrations must at all times be balanced against the need to ensure concentration or a specific heightened risk in some other form.
sufficient capacity within credit limits to support customers of sound credit Those portfolios identified as potentially representing a quality, in particular within retail and small business customer segments.
concentration or heightened risk are subject to formal governance, including periodic review, at either Group or divisional level, depending on materiality.
160 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 161 RBS GROUP 2012 Sector concentration A number of credit risk mitigation techniques are available to reduce Across wholesale portfolios, exposures are assigned to, and reviewed in single name concentrations.
To be considered suitable, credit risk the context of, a defined set of industry sectors.
Through this sector mitigants must be effective in terms of legal certainty and enforceability framework, risk appetite and portfolio strategies are agreed and set at and maturity expiry dates must be the same or later than the underlying aggregate and more granular levels, where exposures have the potential obligations.
Typical mitigant types include, cash, bank government to represent excessive concentration or where trends in both external guarantees, and credit default swaps CDS.
factors and internal portfolio performance give cause for concern.
Formal periodic reviews are undertaken at Group or divisional level depending on Since 2009, the Group has been managing its corporate exposures to materiality.
These may include an assessment of the Groups franchise in reduce concentrations and align its appetite for future business to the a particular sector, an analysis of the outlook including downside Groups broader strategies for its large corporate franchises.
The Group outcomes, identification of key vulnerabilities and stress scenario tests.
is continually reviewing its single name concentration framework to ensure that it remains appropriate for current economic conditions and in The focus during 2012 was on embedding sector and sub-sector specific line with improvements in the Groups risk measurement models.
appetite within divisional policies and processes and on setting appropriate controls.
This includes strengthening portfolio controls on key In 2012, the Group implemented further refinements to the single name metrics and lending parameters, and the ongoing development of sectorexposure management controls already in place which allows the Group specific lending policies.
to differentiate more consistently between the different product types.
As a result of the reviews carried out in 2012, the Group has reduced its Country risk appetite in the most material corporate sectors of commercial real For information on how the Group manages credit risk by country, refer to estate and retail.
For further details on sector-specific strategies, the Country risk section on pages 252 to 280. exposure reduction and key credit risks, refer to pages 181 to 193.
Controls and assurance Single-name concentration The Groups credit control and assurance framework comprises three key Within wholesale portfolios, much of the activity undertaken by the credit components: credit policy, policy compliance assurance and independent risk function is organised around the assessment, approval and assurance.
management of the credit risk associated with a borrower or group of related borrowers.
The foundation is the Group Credit Policy Standard, which, as part of the Group Policy Framework GPF refer to page 115, sets out the rules the A formal single name concentration framework addresses the risk of Groups businesses must follow to ensure that credit risks are identified outsized exposure to a borrower or borrower group.
The framework and effectively managed through the credit lifecycle.
During 2012, a includes specific and sometimes elevated approval requirements, major revision of the Groups key credit policies was completed ensuring additional reporting and monitoring, and the requirement to develop plans that the Groups control environment is appropriately aligned to the risk to address and reduce excess exposures over an appropriate timeframe.
appetite that the Group Board has approved, and provides a sound basis for the Groups independent audit and assurance activities across the Credit approval authority is discharged by way of a framework of credit risk function.
individual delegated authorities, which requires at least two individuals to approve each credit decision, one from the business and one from the The second component is a policy assurance activity that GCR credit risk management function.
Both parties must hold sufficient undertakes to provide the Group Chief Credit Officer with evidence of the delegated authority.
While both parties are accountable for the quality of effectiveness of the controls in place across the Group to manage credit each decision taken, the credit risk management approver holds ultimate risk.
The results of these reviews are presented to the Group Credit Risk sanctioning authority.
The level of authority granted to individuals is Committee on a regular basis in support of the self-certification that GCR dependent on their experience and expertise, with only a small number of is obliged to complete under the GPF.
senior executives holding the highest authority provided under the framework.
Finally, a strong independent assurance function is an important element of a sound control environment.
During 2011, the Group took the decision At a minimum, credit relationships are reviewed and re-approved to strengthen its credit quality assurance CQA activities and moved all annually.
The renewal process addresses: borrower performance, divisional CQA resources under the centralised management of GCR.
including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk parameter estimates: the The benefits of this action are already apparent in greater consistency of adequacy of security: and compliance with terms and conditions.
For standards and cross-utilisation of resources, ensuring that subject matter certain counterparties, early warning indicators are also in place to detect experts bring their expertise to bear where relevant.
deteriorating trends in limit utilisation or account performance, and to prompt additional oversight.
Reviews undertaken consistently address the four underlying risk pillars of: risk management, risk appetite, ratings and data integrity, and asset quality.
Appropriate identification, escalation, remediation and related tracking of control breaches and improvements in operational processes are firmly embedded in the assurance process to ensure that divisions act upon review findings.
unaudited 161 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 162 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Credit risk management framework continued Loss given default models Credit risk measurement Loss given default LGD models estimate the amount that cannot be The Group uses credit risk models to support quantitative risk recovered by the Group in the event of default.
When estimating LGD, assessments element within the credit approval process, ongoing credit the Group takes into account both borrower and facility characteristics, as risk management, monitoring and reporting and portfolio analytics.
Credit well as any security held or credit risk mitigation, such as credit protection risk models used by the Group may be divided into three categories, as or insurance.
The cost of collections and a time discount factor for the follows.
delay in cash recovery are also incorporated.
Probability of default customer credit grade Changes to wholesale credit risk models These models assess whether a customer will be able to repay its The Group is updating its wholesale credit risk models, incorporating obligations over a one year period.
more recent data and reflecting new regulatory requirements applicable to wholesale internal ratings based IRB modelling.
In 2012, the Group Wholesale models - As part of the credit assessment process, the Group implemented updates to certain models, such as those used in the assigns each counterparty an internal credit grade based on its sovereign and financial institution asset classes: these updates affected probability of default PD.
The Group uses a number of credit grading the risk measures in the Groups disclosures.
Further updates, primarily models which consider risk characteristics relevant to the customer.
of models used for the corporate asset class, are planned for 2013. Credit grading models utilise a combination of quantitative inputs, such as recent financial performance and qualitative inputs such as management Updates to models have generally affected relatively low-risk segments of performance or sector outlook.
The Group uses a credit grade in many of the Groups portfolio.
For example, the changes stemming from the its risk management and measurement frameworks, including credit introduction of updated probability of default models largely affected sanctioning and managing single-name concentration risk.
assets bearing the equivalent of investment-grade ratings.
Retail models - Each customer account is scored using models based on In anticipation of these changes, the Group modified various risk the likelihood of default.
Scorecards are statistically derived using frameworks, including its risk appetite framework and latent loss customer data: customers are given a score that reflects their probability assessment.
In addition, with the agreement of its regulators, the Group of default, and this score is used to support automated credit decision adjusted upwards the risk-weighted assets RWAs of some portfolios making.
prior to the introduction of the new models.
Exposure at default models Model changes affect year-on-year comparisons of risk measures in Exposure at default EAD models estimate the level of use of a credit certain disclosures.
Where meaningful, the Group in its commentary has facility at the time of a borrowers default, recognising that customers may differentiated between instances where movements in risk measures make more use of their existing credit facilities as they approach default.
reflect the impact of model changes, and those that reflect movements in For revolving and variable draw-down type products that are not fully the size of underlying credit portfolios or their credit quality.
However, it is drawn, the EAD is higher than the current utilisation.
This estimate of not practicable to quantify the impact of model updates on individual exposure can be reduced with financial collateral provided by the obligor asset quality bands.
Separately, as agreed with the Financial Services Authority FSA, the Models that measure counterparty credit risk exposure are used for Group has started to apply a slotting approach to calculate RWAs related derivatives and other traded instruments, where the amount of credit risk to commercial real estate assets: this approach does not use modelled exposure may depend on one or more underlying market variables, such measures to determine RWAs and capital requirements.
as interest or foreign exchange rates.
These models drive the Groups internal credit risk management activities.
unaudited 162 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 163 RBS GROUP 2012 Credit risk assets x Derivatives - Comprises the mark-to-market mtm value of such The tables and commentary below refer to credit risk assets, which contracts after the effect of enforceable netting agreements, but consist of: before the effect of collateral.
Figures shown apply counterparty netting within the regulatory capital model used.
x Lending - Comprises gross loans and advances to: central and local governments: central banks, including cash balances: other banks x Contingent obligations - Comprises primarily letters of credit and and financial institutions, incorporating overdraft and other shortguarantees.
term credit lines: corporates, in large part loans and leases: and individuals, comprising mortgages, personal loans and credit card Credit risk assets exclude issuer risk primarily debt securities and balances.
They take account of legal netting arrangements that provide a right of legal set-off, but do not meet the offset criteria under IFRS.
Exposure decreased in all divisions except UK exposure to banks, other financial institutions and sovereigns in Retail and Group Treasury shown in Other.
At the year end NonWestern Europe.
Core accounted for 10% of the overall assets 2011 - 14%.
x Non-Core declined 27 billon 30% of the 2011 portfolio during x Credit risk assets in Retail & Commercial continued to increase as a 2012 driven by material disposals, repayments and run off.
proportion of the total portfolio.
At the year end the Retail & Reduction has taken place across all material segments as the Commercial divisions increased to 62% of the total credit risk assets Group continues to fide-risk the portfolio.
UK Retail mortgage exposure increased by 4 billion taken to reduce exposure within the property, transport and other during the year, partially offset by reduced unsecured exposures.
These sectors accounted for 69% of the The fall in exposure in International Banking was spread across all reduction in Non-Core.
x Other predominantly relates to Group Treasurys exposure to central banks in the UK, USA and Germany and is a function of the Groups liquidity requirements and cash positions.
unaudited 163 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 164 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Credit risk assets continued Sector and geographical regional analyses The table below details credit risk assets by sector and geographical region.
Sectors are based on the Groups sector concentration framework.
Geographical region is based on country of incorporation.
Western Europe North Asia Latin UK excl.
3 Excludes net investment in operating leases in shipping and aviation portfolios as they are accounted for as property, plant and equipment.
However, operating leases are included in the monitoring and management of these portfolios.
4 Enhancements to Wealth credit systems in the second quarter of 2012 resulted in refinements to sector classifications.
The most significant impact has been a reallocation of 2.6 billion from the retail and leisure sector across a number of other sectors.
Prior year data has not been revised.
unaudited 164 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 165 RBS GROUP 2012 Key points Financial markets and the Groups focus on risk appetite and sector x Exposure to the banking sector is one of the largest in the Groups concentration had a direct impact on the portfolio during the year with the portfolio.
The sector is well diversified geographically with derivative following key trends observed: exposures being largely collateralised.
Exposures are tightly controlled through the combination of the single name concentration x Total credit risk assets fell 7%, with reductions in all wholesale framework, bespoke credit policies and country limits.
Exposure to the personal sector remained broadly flat.
the banking sector decreased by 3 billion in 2012 as a result of reduced interbank lending and derivative activity, and a reduction in x Credit risk assets fell in all geographic regions, except the UK.
This limits to banks in countries under stress, such as the peripheral was driven by the Groups continued focus on reducing exposures to eurozone countries.
the peripheral eurozone countries and appropriate management of liquidity requirements reflected in the reduced exposures to Western x Exposure to other financial institutions comprising traded and nonEuropean and US central banks.
traded products is spread across a range of financial companies including insurance, securitisation vehicles, financial intermediaries x UK exposure, as a proportion of the total portfolio, increased during including broker dealers and CCPs, financial guarantors - monolines the year and now comprises 51% of credit risk assets, driven by and CDPCs - and funds comprising unleveraged, hedge and continued growth in UK personal sector assets and increased UK leveraged funds.
The size and asset quality of the Core portfolio sovereign risk exposure.
have not changed materially since 2011.
However, entities in this sector remain vulnerable to market shocks or contagion from the x Exposure to the property sector fell by 11% during the year driven banking sector.
Credit risk is managed through the single name by tighter portfolio controls in all regions and a 9.5 billion reduction concentration, sector concentration and asset and product class in Non-Core resulting from focussed action on early and contractual frameworks, with specific sector and product caps in place where repayments.
there is a perception of heightened credit risk.
The Group is also actively managing down its exposures to monolines and CDPCs x Exposure to banks and financial institutions declined by 5% as a with a view to exiting these portfolios.
Exposures to CDPCs and result of subdued borrowing activity and a reduction in lending and monolines have decreased materially during 2012 as trades are derivatives to finance companies, financial services companies, commuted and exposures reduce due to tightening credit spread of funds, monoline insurers and Credit Derivative Product Companies the assets protected by CDPCs and monolines.
x The Groups exposure to the property sector was 91 billion a fall of x Reported exposures are affected by currency movements.
During 11% during the year, the majority of which was commercial real 2012, sterling appreciated 4.4% against the US dollar and 2.6% estate in Ireland and the UK see section on commercial real estate against the euro resulting in a decrease in sterling terms of on pages 181 and 182 for further details.
The remainder comprised exposures denominated in these currencies and in other currencies lending to construction companies and building materials groups, linked to the US dollar or euro.
which fell by 1.9 billion 15%, and housing associations, which remained stable.
Most of the Groups Core property exposure is x The Groups sovereign portfolio comprises exposures to central within UK Corporate 73%.
governments, central banks and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities, primarily in the Groups key markets of the UK, Western x The 22% decline in exposure to the retail and leisure sectors, was Europe and the USA.
The asset quality is high as exposures are driven by the fide-leveraging by customers and refinements in sector largely cash balances placed with central banks such as the Bank of classifications within the Wealth division.
Excluding the impact of England, the Federal Reserve and the Eurosystem including the sector reclassifications, the reduction in the retail and leisure European Central Bank and central banks in the eurozone.
While the market outlook for this sector Exposure to sovereigns fluctuates according to Group liquidity remains challenging and despite some high-profile failures among requirements and cash positions.
These are driven by inflows and UK high street retailers, losses on the Groups retail portfolio outflows of deposits which determine the level of cash placed with remained low during 2012.
The sector continues to show wide central banks and have contributed to higher exposures at the Bank variation in performance, however, credit metrics overall remained of England and lower exposures at European and US central banks.
The leisure sector displayed weaker credit metrics Information on the Groups exposure to governments, including than the wider corporate portfolio, in line with the industry trend.
The peripheral eurozone sovereigns, can be found in the Risk Groups risk appetite is driven by the importance of the leisure management section on Country risk.
sector to the UK franchise, especially for the UK Corporate division, but is mitigated through tighter origination policies and a reduction in exposure to high risk sub-sectors.
Leisure sector exposure fell by 8% in 2012 driven predominantly by Non-Core.
The gambling subsector is subject to specific controls due to its high credit and reputational risk profile.
165 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 166 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Credit risk assets : Sector and geographical regional analysis continued x The Groups transport sector portfolio includes 10.6 billion of assetx Exposure to healthcare of 10.0 billion at year end is included in the backed exposure to ocean-going vessels.
Conditions remained poor business services sector.
It is heavily biased towards the UK health across the major shipping market segments in 2012, with low sector which represents 68% of the exposure.
There was no charter rates and vessel values.
A key protection for the Group is significant change in the asset quality or size of this portfolio in 2012. the minimum security covenant.
This covenant is tested each Challenging market conditions persist in the nursing home subquarter on an individual vessel basis to ensure prompt remedial sector and as a result the Group has tightened its risk appetite and action is taken if values fall significantly below agreed loan coverage further strengthened its transactional controls and policies during the ratios.
There was an increase in the number of clients suffering year.
liquidity issues or failing to meet their minimum security covenant and a commensurate rise in referrals to the Watchlist and the Global x Core personal lending continued to rise, driven by UK mortgages.
At 31 December 2012, 20% of the This expansion is in line with Group strategy and has no detrimental Groups exposure to this sector was in Watchlist Red and the impact on credit quality for more commentary refer to Key credit amount of loans in default were 687 million.
The impairment charge portfolios: Residential mortgages on page 186.
The increase was for the year was c. 0.1 billion and the provision balance as at 31 partially offset by reduced unsecured exposures.
December 2012 stood at c. 0.2 billion.
The Groups exposure to the shipping sector including shipping related infrastructure declined by 3.5% in 2012 as a result of amortisation and foreign exchange movements.
Asset quality Internal reporting and oversight of risk assets is principally differentiated by credit grades.
Customers are assigned credit grades based on various credit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for each customer type.
All credit grades across the Group map to both a Group level asset quality scale, used for external financial reporting, and a master grading scale for wholesale exposures, used for internal management reporting across portfolios.
Accordingly, measures of risk exposure may be readily aggregated and reported at increasing levels of granularity depending on stakeholder or business need.
Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 where the PD is less than 100% and non-performing loans as AQ10 where the PD is 100%.
Exposures are allocated to asset quality bands on the basis of statistically driven models which produce an estimate of default rate.
The variables included in the models vary by product and geography.
For portfolios secured on residential property these models typically include measures of delinquency and loan to value as well as other differentiating characteristics such as bureau score, product features or associated account performance information.
unaudited 166 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 167 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 2011 2010 Divisional credit Divisional credit Divisional credit AQ10 risk assets AQ10 risk assets AQ10 risk assets AQ10 credit risk assets by division m % m % m % UK Retail 4,998 4.4 5,097 4.6 5,017 4.6 UK Corporate 6,310 6.2 5,484 5.2 5,198 4.8 International Banking 612 0.9 1,736 2.4 2,227 2.8 Ulster Bank 8,236 24.1 6,305 16.7 4,348 10.7 US Retail & Commercial 633 1.2 646 1.1 599 1.2 Retail & Commercial 20,789 5.3 19,268 4.8 17,389 4.3 Markets 773 0.7 749 0.7 605 0.5 Core 21,562 3.8 20,017 3.4 17,994 3.2 Non-Core 22,845 35.0 25,020 27.0 25,005 19.9 44,4077.1 45,037 6.7 42,999 6.2 Key points x Trends in the asset quality of the Groups credit risk exposures x On a sector basis, the proportion of non-performing assets in the during 2012 reflected changes in the composition of the Core property sector increased slightly to 58% of total AQ10 exposure portfolio and the run-off and disposals of Non-Core assets as well as 2011 - 57%.
Non-performing assets relating to property represent regrading through new and updated models, particularly in relation a material proportion of AQ10 exposure in Non-Core 85%, UK to the bank and personal sectors.
Adjusting for those factors, the Corporate 56% and Ulster Bank 30%.
In particular, continued overall asset quality of the Groups corporate exposure was broadly weakness in the Irish economy meant non-performing assets in the unchanged despite difficult external conditions in the UK and Ulster Bank portfolio continued to grow, driven by exposures in the ongoing uncertainty in the eurozone.
Refer to the Key credit portfolios: Ulster Bank Group pages 190 to 193 for more details.
A small x The decrease in the Groups Core exposures within the AQ1 band number of significant individual non-performing property cases led to reflects the decrease in the Groups exposure to sovereigns in the overall increase in the AQ10 population in UK Corporate.
Western Europe and North America and the change in the bank and sovereign Probability of Default PD rating models noted on page x Non-performing assets AQ10 in Non-Core increased as a 162.
The credit outlook for banks and sovereigns continues to be percentage of the overall Non-Core portfolio due to the run-off and challenging and the transition to the updated PD models creates disposals of better performing assets.
The overall level of AQ10 additional credit migration causing assets to move to higher PDs.
assets in Non-Core fell due to repayments, assets returning to the While the nominal value and appearance of migration out of AQ1 is performing book and the write off of certain real estate exposures in material most of the migration continues to occur within the range of 2012. stronger credit grades and hence the change in the credit quality of the portfolio is modest.
The weighted PD percentage for banks and x In UK Retail non-performing assets AQ10 reduced slightly during sovereigns increased by 5 basis points to 0.13% and 3 basis points the year predominantly as a result of lower flows of unsecured to 0.04% respectively.
The AQ composition of the Corporate assets into non-performing.
Recovery activity on non-performing portfolio has not changed materially during the year.
assets is pursued over a number of years during which time the assets remain on balance sheet along with the appropriate x The increase in AQ4 is partly driven by the change to the bank and impairment provision.
sovereign PD models noted above, and partly due to the improvement in the UK Retail mortgage asset quality band x Non-performing credit risk assets within International Banking distribution.
This followed updates to the Groups models which decreased markedly as renegotiations led to the return of significant were delayed whilst long term recalibrations were made to the exposure in the transport sector to the performing book.
These PD recalibrations reflect improvements in the underlying credit quality of the UK mortgage portfolio.
167 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 168 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Credit risk mitigation Corporate exposures Approaches and methodologies The type of collateral taken by the Groups commercial and corporate The Group employs a number of structures and techniques to mitigate businesses and the manner in which it is taken will vary according to credit risk.
Netting of debtor and creditor balances is undertaken in the activity and assets of the customer.
accordance with relevant regulatory and internal policies.
Exposure on OTC derivative and secured financing transactions is further mitigated x Physical assets - These include business assets such as stock, by the exchange of financial collateral and the use of market standard plant and machinery, vehicles, ships and aircraft.
Further mitigation may occur in a range of physical assets qualify as collateral only if they can be transactions, from retail mortgage lending to large wholesale financing.
unambiguously identified, located or traced, and segregated from This can include: structuring a security interest in a physical or uncharged assets.
Assets are valued on a number of bases financial asset: use of credit derivatives, including credit default swaps, according to the type of security that is granted.
credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation structures: and use of guarantees and similar instruments for example, credit insurance x Real estate - The Group takes collateral in the form of real estate, from related and third parties.
Such techniques are used in the which includes residential and commercial properties.
The market management of credit portfolios, typically to mitigate credit value of the collateral will typically exceed the loan amount at concentrations in relation to an individual obligor, a borrower group or origination date.
The market value is defined as the estimated a collection of related borrowers.
amount for which the asset could be sold in an arms length transaction by a willing seller to a willing buyer.
The use and approach to credit risk mitigation varies by product type, customer and business strategy.
Minimum standards applied across x Receivables - When taking a charge over receivables, the Group the Group cover: assesses their nature and quality and the borrowers management and collection processes.
The value of the x The suitability of qualifying credit risk mitigation types and any receivables offered as collateral will typically be adjusted to conditions or restrictions applicable to those mitigants: exclude receivables that are past their due dates.
x The means by which legal certainty is to be established, including The security charges may be floating or fixed, with the type of security required documentation, supportive independent legal opinions likely to impact: i the credit decision: and ii the potential loss upon and all necessary steps required to establish legal rights: default.
In the case of a general charge such as a mortgage debenture, balance sheet information may be used as a proxy for x Acceptable methodologies for initial and any subsequent market value if the information is deemed reliable.
valuations of collateral and the frequency with which collateral is to be revalued and the use of collateral haircuts: The Group does not recognise certain asset classes as collateral: for example, short leasehold property and equity shares of the borrowing x Actions to be taken in the event that the value of mitigation falls company.
Collateral whose value is correlated to that of the obligor is below required levels: assessed on a case-by-case basis and, where necessary,  may be required.
x Management of the risk of correlation between changes in the credit risk of the customer and the value of credit risk mitigation: The Group uses industry-standard loan and security documentation wherever possible.
Non-standard documentation is typically prepared x Management of concentration risks, for example, by setting by external lawyers on a case-by-case basis.
The Groups business thresholds and controls on the acceptability of credit risk mitigants and credit teams are supported by in-house specialist documentation and on lines of business that are characterised by a specific teams.
collateral type or structure: and The existence of collateral has an impact on provisioning.
Where the x Collateral management to ensure that credit risk mitigation Group no longer expects to recover the principal and interest due on a remains legally effective and enforceable.
loan in full or in accordance with the original terms and conditions, it is assessed for impairment.
If exposures are secured, the current net Secured portfolios realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account when Within its secured portfolios, the Group has recourse to various types assessing the need for a provision.
No impairment provision is of collateral and other credit enhancements to mitigate credit risk and recognised in cases where all amounts due are expected to be settled reduce the loss to the Group arising from the failure of a customer to in full on realisation of the security.
These include: cash deposits: charges over residential and commercial property, debt securities and equity shares: and third-party guarantees.
The existence of collateral may affect the pricing of a facility and its regulatory capital requirement.
When a collateralised financial asset becomes impaired, the impairment charge directly reflects the realisable value of collateral and any other credit enhancements.
unaudited 168 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 169 RBS GROUP 2012 Commercial real estate The table below analyses commercial real estate Core and Non-Core lending by loan-to-value LTV which represents loan value before provisions.
Due to market conditions in Ireland and to a lesser extent in the UK, there is a shortage of market-based data.
In the absence of external valuations, the Group deploys a range of alternative approaches to assess property values, including internal expert judgement and indexation.
Total portfolio average LTV is quoted net of loans with minimal security given that the anticipated recovery rate is less than 10%.
Provisions are marked against these loans where required to reflect asset quality and recovery profile.
2 Other performing loans of 6.6 billion 2011 - 9.2 billion include general corporate lending, typically unsecured, to commercial real estate companies, and major UK homebuilders.
The credit quality of these exposures is consistent with that of the performing portfolio overall.
Other non-performing loans of 1.9 billion 2011 - 2.5 billion are subject to the Groups standard provisioning policies.
Other corporate 2012 2011 2010 Corporate risk elements in lending and potential problem loans Loans Provisions Loans Provisions Loans Provisions excluding commercial real estate m m m m m m Secured 9,936 4,704 7,782 3,369 6,526 2,564 Unsecured 1,894 1,170 2,712 1,836 2,769 1,762 169 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 170 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Credit risk mitigation continued Wholesale market exposures As set out in the table below, the Group receives collateral for reverse repurchase transactions and for derivatives, typically in the form of cash, quoted debt securities or equities.
The risks inherent in both types of transaction are further mitigated through master bilateral netting arrangements.
Industry standard documentation such as master repurchase agreements and credit support annexes accompanied by legal opinion, is used for financial collateral taken as part of trading activities.
2012 2011 2010 bn bn bn Reverse repurchase agreements 104.8 100.9 95.1 Securities received as collateral 1 104.7 98.9 94.3 Derivative assets gross exposure 441.9 530.1 432.2 Counterparty netting 373.9 441.6 330.4 Cash collateral held 34.1 37.2 31.1 Securities received as collateral 5.6 5.3 2.9 Note: 1 In accordance with normal market practice, at 31 December 2012 100.7 billion 2011 - 95.4 billion: 2010 - 93.5 billion had been resold or re-pledged as collateral for the Groups own transactions.
Retail US, and the Central Statistics Office Residential Property Price Index in Within the Groups retail book, mortgage and home equity lending ROI monthly and the Nationwide House Price Index in Northern portfolios are secured by residential property.
The Groups portfolio of US Ireland.
automobile loans is secured by motor cars or other vehicles.
Student loans and credit card lending are all unsecured.
The vast majority of For automobile lending in the US, new vehicles are valued at cost and personal loans are also unsecured.
used vehicles at the average trade-in value.
At 31 December 2012, this portfolio amounted to 5.4 billion 2011 - 4.8 billion: 2010 - 5.1 billion.
All borrowing applications, whether secured or not, are subject to appropriate credit risk underwriting processes including affordability The existence of collateral has an impact on provisioning levels.
Pricing is typically higher on unsecured than secured loans.
secured loan is classified as non-performing, the realisable value of the For secured loans, pricing will typically vary by LTV.
Higher LTV products underlying collateral and the costs associated with repossession are used are typically subject to higher interest rates commensurate with the to estimate the provision required.
Residential mortgages The value of a property intended to secure a mortgage is assessed The table below shows LTVs for the Groups residential mortgage during the loan underwriting process using industry-standard portfolio split between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing methodologies.
Property values supporting home equity lending reflect AQ10, with the average calculated on a weighted value basis.
Loan either an individual appraisal or valuations generated by statistically valid balances are as at the end of the year whereas property values are automated valuation models.
Property values are updated each quarter calculated using the appropriate index.
2 Where no indexed LTV is held.
3 Average LTV weighted by value is arrived at by calculating the LTV on each individual mortgage and applying a weighting based on the value of each mortgage.
4 Excludes mortgage lending in Wealth.
This portfolio totalled 8.8 billion 2011 - 8.3 billion: 2010 - 7.8 billion and continues to perform in line with expectations with minimal provisions of 248 million.
171 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 172 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Early problem identification and problem debt management Once on the Watchlist process, customers come under heightened While the principles of identifying, managing and providing for problem scrutiny.
The relationship strategy is reassessed by a forum of debts are broadly similar for wholesale and retail customers, the experienced credit, portfolio management and remedial management procedures differ based on the nature of the assets, as discussed below.
In accordance with Group-wide policies, a number of mandatory actions are taken, including a review of the Wholesale customers customers credit grade and facility security documentation.
Other The controls and processes for managing wholesale problem debts are appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge that embedded within the divisions credit approval frameworks and form an may affect the customers ability to service its debt.
Such circumstances essential part of the ongoing credit assessment of customers.
Any include deteriorating trading performance, an imminent breach of necessary approvals will be required in accordance with the delegated covenant, challenging macroeconomic conditions, a late payment or the authority grid governing the extension of credit.
Early problem recognition For all Watchlist Red cases, the division is required to consult with GRG Each division has established Early Warning Indicators EWIs designed on whether the relationship should be transferred to GRG see more on to identify those performing exposures that require close attention due to GRG below.
Relationships managed by the divisions tend to be with financial stress or heightened operational issues.
Such identification may companies operating in niche sectors, such as airlines or products such also take place as part of the annual review cycle.
EWIs vary from as securitisation special purpose vehicles.
The divisions may also division to division and comprise both internal parameters such as manage those exposures when subject matter expertise is available in account level information and external parameters such as the share the divisions rather than within GRG.
price of publicly listed customers.
At 31 December 2012, exposures to customers reported as Watchlist Customers identified through either the EWIs or annual review are Red and managed within the divisions totalled 4.3 billion 2011 - 4.9 assessed by portfolio management and or credit officers within the billion.
division to determine whether or not the customers circumstances warrant placing the exposure on the Watchlist detailed below.
Strategies that are available within divisions include granting a customer various types of concessions.
Any decision to approve a concession will Watchlist be a function of the divisions specific country and sector appetite, the key There are three Watchlist ratings - amber, red and black - reflecting credit metrics of the customer, the market environment and the loan progressively deteriorating conditions.
Watchlist Amber loans are structure security.
Refer to the section below on Wholesale performing loans where the counterparty or sector shows early signs of renegotiations.
potential stress or has other characteristics such that they warrant closer monitoring.
Watchlist Red loans are performing loans where indications Other potential outcomes of the review of the relationship are to: take the of the borrowers declining creditworthiness are such that the exposure customer off the Watchlist and return them to the mainstream loan book: requires active management, usually by the Global Restructuring Group offer further lending and maintain ongoing reviews: transfer the GRG.
Watchlist Black loans comprise risk elements in lending and relationship to GRG for those customers requiring such stewardship: or potential problem loans.
The following table shows a sector breakdown of credit risk assets of Watchlist Red counterparties under GRG management: 2012 2011 Core Non-Core Total Core Non-Core Total Watchlist Red credit risk assets under GRG management m m m m m m Property 5,605 4,377 9,982 6,561 6,011 12,572 Transport 2,238 478 2,716 1,159 2,252 3,411 Retail and leisure 1,542 432 1,974 1,528 669 2,197 Services 870 84 954 808 141 949 Other 3,087 1,177 4,264 1,952 916 2,868 Total 13,342 6,548 19,890 12,008 9,989 21,997 Global Restructuring Group GRG In cases where the Groups exposure to the customer exceeds 1 million, At 31 December 2012, credit risk assets relating to exposures under the relationship may be transferred to GRG following consultation with GRG management excluding those placed under GRG stewardship for the originating division.
The primary function of GRG is active operational reasons rather than concerns over credit quality and those in management of the exposures to minimise loss for the Group and where the AQ10 internal asset quality AQ band totalled 19.9 billion.
Credit feasible return the exposure to the Groups mainstream loan book risk assets are defined on page 163.
The internal asset quality bands are following an assessment by GRG that no further losses are expected.
defined on page 166. unaudited 172 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 173 RBS GROUP 2012 Wholesale renegotiations x Forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt - debt may be Loan modifications take place in a variety of circumstances including but forgiven or exchanged for equity in cases where a fundamental shift not limited to a customers current or potential credit deterioration.
Where in the customers business or economic environment means that the the contractual payment terms of a loan have been changed because of customer is incapable of servicing current debt obligations and other the customers financial difficulties, it is classified as renegotiated in the forms of renegotiations are unlikely to succeed in isolation.
forgiveness is often an element in leveraged finance transactions, which are typically structured on the basis of projected cash flows Loans modified in the normal course of business where there is no from operational activities, rather than underlying tangible asset evidence of financial difficulties and any changes to terms and conditions values.
Provided that the underlying business model and strategy are within acceptable credit parameters, within credit risk appetite and or are considered viable, maintaining the business as a going concern reflective of improving conditions for the customer in the credit markets, with a sustainable level of debt is the preferred option, rather than are not considered to have been renegotiated.
realising the value of the underlying assets.
A number of options are available to the Group when a wholesale In addition, the Group may offer a temporary covenant waiver, a customer is facing financial difficulties and corrective action is deemed recalibration of covenants and or a covenant amendment to cure a necessary.
Such actions are tailored to the individual circumstances of potential or actual covenant breach.
Such relief is usually granted in the customer.
The aim of such actions is to assist the customer in exchange for fees, increased margin, additional security, or a reduction in restoring its financial health and to minimise risk to the Group.
To ensure maturity profile of the original loan.
These financial covenant concessions that the renegotiations are appropriate for the needs and financial profile are monitored internally, but are not included in the renegotiated loans of the customer, the Group requires minimum standards to be applied data when this is the sole concession granted to a customer as we when assessing, recording, monitoring and reporting this type of activity.
believe that such concessions are qualitatively different from other renegotiations: The loans payment terms are unchanged.
Covenant Wholesale renegotiations involve the following types of concessions: concessions provide an early warning indicator rather than firm evidence of a significant deterioration in credit quality.
x Variation in margin - The contractual margin may be amended to bolster the customers day-to-day liquidity, with the aim of helping to The impact on the credit quality of any change in terms and conditions of sustain the customers business as a going concern.
This would a loan is assessed at the time of granting such changes, and the normally be seen as a short-term solution and is typically appropriateness of the credit metrics reviewed at such time.
For accompanied by the Group receiving an exit payment, a payment in performing counterparties, credit metrics are an integral part of the latent kind or a deferred fee.
provision methodology and therefore the impact of covenant concessions will be reflected in the latent provision.
For non-performing x Payment concessions and loan rescheduling - payment concessions counterparties, covenant concessions will be considered in the overall or changes to the contracted amortisation profile including provision adequacy for these loans.
extensions in contracted maturity may be granted to improve the customers liquidity.
Such concessions often depend on the Covenant waivers and amendments are predominantly undertaken prior expectation that the customers liquidity will recover when market to transfer to GRG.
The vast majority of the other types of renegotiations conditions improve or will benefit from access to alternative sources undertaken by the Group take place within GRG.
Forgiveness of debt and of liquidity, such as an issue of equity capital.
These types of exchange for equity is only available to customers in GRG.
concessions are common in commercial real estate transactions, particularly where a shortage of market liquidity rules out immediate Loans may be renegotiated more than once, generally where a temporary refinancing and makes short-term forced collateral sales unattractive.
concession has been granted and circumstances warrant another temporary or permanent revision of the loans terms.
Where renegotiation is no longer viable, the Group will consider other options such as the enforcement of security and or insolvency proceedings.
173 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 174 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Early problem identification and problem debt management: Wholesale renegotiations continued The data presented in the tables below include loans renegotiated during 2011 and 2012 which individually exceed thresholds set at divisional level, ranging from nil to 10 million.
This population captures approximately 68% of that proportion of the wholesale portfolio which is either on Watchlist or under GRG stewardship.
We continue to refine our reporting processes relating to renegotiated loans and as part of the 2012 review, the amounts inprogress and completed renegotiations relating to 2011 have been revised.
The table below shows the value of loans excluding loans where the Group has initiated recovery procedures where renegotiations were completed during the year by sector and renegotiation types.
2012 2011 - Revised Non-performing Non-performing provision provision Performing Non-performing coverage Performing Non-performing coverage Wholesale renegotiations during the year by sector m m % m m % Property 1,954 3,288 18 2,166 3,215 25 Transport 832 99 23 771 670 10 Telecommunications, media and technology 237 341 46 57 33 30 Retail and leisure 487 111 34 331 433 10 Other 1 792 245 28 893 792 42 Total 4,302 4,084 22 4,218 5,143 25 Note: 1 SME business within Wealth is now reported within Wholesale forbearance.
Renegotiation agreements The table below analyses the incidence of the main types of renegotiation by loan value: Loans by value Revised 2012 2011 Arrangement type % % Variation in margin 9 12 Payment concessions and loan rescheduling 69 92 Forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt 29 33 Other 2 20 9 Notes: 1 The total above exceeds 100% as an individual case can involve more than one type of arrangement.
2 Main types of other concessions include formal standstill agreements, release of security and amendments to negative pledge.
2012 saw the completion of a small number of material standstill agreements, accounting for the higher proportion of the Other modification type.
Key points x Additional provisions charged in 2012 relating to loans renegotiated x Renegotiations completed during 2012, subject to thresholds as during 2011 totalled 0.2 billion and provision coverage of those explained above, were 8.4 billion 2011 - 9.4 billion.
The volume loans at 31 December 2012 was 25%.
of renegotiations continues at a high level as difficult economic conditions persist in the UK and Ireland, particularly in real estate x Of the loans renegotiated by GRG during 2011 and 2012 markets and the Group continues its active problem debt 14.5 billion, 6% had been returned to performing portfolios management.
Renegotiations are likely to remain significant: at 31 managed by the business by 31 December 2012.
December 2012 loans totalling 13.7 billion 2011 - 11.7 billion were in the process of being renegotiated but had not yet reached x Renegotiated loans disclosed in the table above may have been the legal completion these loans are not included in the tables above.
subject of one or more covenant waivers or modifications.
In Of these 69% were non-performing loans, with an associated addition loans totalling 3.5 billion granted financial covenant provision coverage of 32%, and 31% were performing loans.
The concessions only during the year are not included in the table above principal types of arrangements being offered include variation in as these concessions do not affect a loans contractual cash flows.
margin, payment concessions and loan rescheduling and forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt x Year-on-year analysis of renegotiated loans may be skewed by individual material cases reaching legal completion during a given x Loans renegotiated during 2011 and 2012 outstanding at 31 year.
This is particularly relevant when comparing the value of December 2012 were 17.7 billion, of which 9.3 billion relates to renegotiations completed in the property and transport sectors in arrangements completed during 2011.
174 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 175 RBS GROUP 2012 Key points continued The customers financial position, anticipated prospects and the likely x In 2012 renegotiations were more prevalent in the Groups most effect of the renegotiation, including any concessions granted, are significant corporate sectors and in those industries experiencing considered in order to establish whether an impairment provision is difficult markets, notably property and transport as the Group seeks required.
The majority of renegotiations granted to borrowers in the property sector were payment concessions and In the case of non-performing loans that are renegotiated, the loan loan rescheduling.
During 2012 there has been an increase in the impairment provision assessment almost invariably takes place prior to number of renegotiations in the shipping sector as poor economic the renegotiation.
The quantum of the loan impairment provision may conditions persist.
change once the terms of the renegotiation are known, resulting in an additional provision charge or a release of the provision in the period the x 84% of completed and 93% of in progress renegotiated cases renegotiation takes place.
The transfer of renegotiated wholesale loans from impaired to performing x Provisions for the non-performing loans disclosed above are status follows assessment by relationship managers in GRG.
When no individually assessed and renegotiations are taken into account further losses are anticipated and the customer is expected to meet the when determining the level of provision.
The provision coverage is loans revised terms, any provision is written off and the balance of the affected by the timing of write-offs and provisions.
In some cases loan returned to performing status.
loans are fully or partially written off on the completion of a renegotiation.
Non-performing renegotiated loans also include loans Performing loans that are renegotiated will be included in the calculation against which no provision is held and where these cases are large of the latent loss provisions.
To the extent that the renegotiation event they can have a significant impact on the provision coverage within has affected the customers estimated probably of default or loss given a specific sector.
default, this will be reflected in the underlying calculation.
Provisioning for wholesale renegotiated customers Recoveries and active insolvency management Wholesale renegotiations are predominantly individually assessed and The ultimate outcome of a renegotiation strategy is unknown at the time are not therefore segregated into a separate risk pool.
It is highly dependent on the cooperation of the borrower and the continued existence of a viable business.
The following are Provisions for renegotiated wholesale loans are assessed in accordance generally considered to be options of last resort: with the Groups normal provisioning policies refer to Impairment loss provision methodology on page 179.
For the non-performing population, x Enforcement of security or otherwise taking control of assets - provisions on exposures greater than 1 million are individually assessed Where the Group holds collateral or other security interest and is by GRG.
The provision required is calculated based on the difference entitled to enforce its rights, it may take ownership or control of the between the debt outstanding and the present value of the estimated assets.
The Groups preferred strategy is to consider other possible future cash flows.
Exposures smaller than 1 million are deemed not to options prior to exercising these rights.
be individually significant and are assessed collectively by the originating division.
Within the performing book, latent loss provisions are held for x Insolvency - Where there is no suitable renegotiation option or the those losses that are incurred, but not yet identified.
business is no longer regarded as sustainable, insolvency will be considered.
Insolvency may be the only option that ensures that the Any one of the above types of renegotiation may result in the value of the assets of the business are properly and efficiently distributed to outstanding debt exceeding the present value of the estimated future relevant creditors.
cash flows from the renegotiated loan resulting in the recognition of an impairment loss.
Renegotiations that include forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt account for the majority of such cases.
175 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 176 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Early problem identification and problem debt management: Wholesale renegotiations continued Retail customers In payment concession arrangements a temporary reduction in, or Collections and recoveries elimination of, the periodic usually monthly loan repayment is agreed There are collections functions in each of the retail businesses.
Their role with the customer.
At the end of the concessionary period, forborne is to provide support and assistance to customers who are experiencing principal and accrued interest outstanding is scheduled for repayment difficulties in meeting their financial obligations to the Group.
Evidence of over an agreed period.
such difficulties includes, for example, a missed payment on their loan, or a balance that is in excess of the agreed credit limit.
Additionally, in UK For UK Retail, interest only conversions have not been used as a tool to Retail and Ulster Bank, a dedicated support team aims to identify and support customers in financial stress since 2009.
Following a change to help customers who may be facing financial difficulty but who are current policy in 2012, switching to interest only is no longer permitted for with their payments.
residential mortgage customers who are up to date on payments.
For Ulster Bank, interest only conversions are only offered to customers in Within collections, a range of tools is deployed to initiate contact with the financial stress on a temporary basis.
customer, establish the cause of their financial difficulty and, aim to support them where possible including the use of a range of forbearance As a result of the economic difficulties in the Republic of Ireland market options.
If these strategies are unsuccessful, the customer is transferred and responding to regulatory intervention in the Irish mortgage market, to the recoveries team.
Ulster Bank has developed additional treatment options to support customers in overcoming financial difficulties, over an extended period of The goal of the recoveries function is to collect the total amount time.
outstanding and reduce the loss to the Group by maximising the level of cash recovery while treating customers fairly.
A range of treatment The principal types of forbearance granted in RBS Citizens mortgage options are available within recoveries, including litigation.
In UK Retail portfolio are the US government mandated HAMP Home Affordable and Ulster Bank, no repossession procedures are initiated until at least Modification Program and RBS Citizens proprietary modification six months following the emergence of arrears.
In Ulster Bank, new programme.
Both programmes typically feature a combination of term regulations further prohibit taking legal action for an extended period.
extensions, capitalisations of arrears, temporary interest rate reductions Additionally, certain forbearance options are made available to customers and conversions from interest only to amortising.
These tend to be within recoveries.
permanent changes to contractual terms.
Borrowers seeking a modification must meet government-specified qualifications for HAMP Retail forbearance and internal qualifications for RBS Citizens modification programme.
Within the Groups retail businesses, forbearance generally occurs when Both are designed to evidence that the borrower is in financial difficulty as the business, for reasons relating to the actual or potential financial stress well as demonstrating willingness to pay.
of a borrower, grants a permanent or temporary concession to that borrower.
Forbearance is granted following an assessment of the For forbearance loans that are performing, the aim is to enable the customers ability to pay.
It is granted principally to customers with customer to continue to service the loan.
For forbearance loans classified mortgages.
Granting of forbearance to unsecured customers is less as non-performing only those for which capitalisation of arrears has been extensive.
agreed can qualify for return to the performing book.
Transfer of such loans takes place currently once the customer has met the revised Identification of forbearance payment terms for at least six months and is expected to continue to do Customers are identified for forbearance treatment following initial so.
contact from the customer, in the event of payment arrears or when the customer is transferred to collections or recoveries.
The mortgage forbearance population is reviewed regularly to ensure that customers are meeting the agreed terms of the arrangement.
Key metrics Types of retail forbearance have been developed to record the proportion of customers who fail to A number of forbearance options are utilised by the Groups retail meet the agreed terms over time, as well as the proportion of customers businesses.
These include, but are not limited to, payment concessions, who return to a performing state with no arrears.
capitalisations of arrears over the remaining term of the mortgage, extension to the mortgage term and temporary conversions to interest only.
176 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 177 RBS GROUP 2012 Arrears status and provisions Mortgage arrears information for retail accounts in forbearance and related provision are shown in the tables below.
2 Includes the current stock position of forbearance deals agreed since early 2008 for UK Retail and early 2009 for Ulster Bank.
3 Forbearance stock reported at 31 December 2012 now includes home equity loans and lines as well as the residential mortgage portfolio.
4 SME business within Wealth is now reported within Wholesale forbearance.
Forbearance arrangements The incidence of the main types of retail forbearance as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 are analysed below.
For a small proportion of mortgages, more than one forbearance type applies.
UK Retail Ulster Bank RBS Citizens 1 Wealth 2 Total 3 2012 m m m m m Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 1,220 924 6 2,150 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 2,271 183 27 2,481 Payment concessions 215 762339 9 1,325 Capitalisation of arrears 932 119 1,051 Other 452 3 455 5,090 1,988 339 45 7,462 2011 Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 1,269 795 3 2,067 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 1,805 58 97 1,960 Payment concessions 198 876 180 1,254 Capitalisation of arrears 864 101 965 Other 517 23 540 4,653 1,830 180 123 6,786 The table below shows forbearance agreed during 2012 analysed between performing and non-performing.
UK Retail Ulster Bank RBS Citizens 1 Wealth 2 Total 3 2012 m m m m m Performing forbearance in the year 1,809 2,111 88 184,026 Non-performing forbearance in the year 184 1,00971 2 1,266 Total forbearance in the year 4 1,993 3,120 159 20 5,292 Notes: 1 Forbearance stock reported at 31 December 2012 now includes home equity loans and lines as well as the residential mortgage portfolio.
2 SME business within Wealth is now reported within Wholesale forbearance.
3 As an individual case can include more than one type of arrangement, the analysis in the table on forbearance arrangements exceeds the total value of cases subject to forbearance.
4 Includes all deals agreed during the year new customers and renewals regardless of whether they remain active at the year end.
177 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 178 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Early problem identification and problem debt management: Retail customers continued Key points Ulster Bank UK Retail x The reported numbers for forbearance in Ulster Bank Group capture x The reported numbers for forbearance in UK Retail capture all all instances where a change has been made to the contractual instances where a change has been made to the contractual payment terms including those where the customer is up-to-date on payment terms including those where the customer is up-to-date on payments and there is no obvious evidence of financial stress.
The payments and there is no obvious evidence of financial stress.
The reported figures include stock dating back to early 2009. reported figures include stock dating back to 1 January 2008. x Ulster Bank Group continues to assist customers in the difficult x At 31 December 2012, stock levels of 4.8 billion represent 4.9% of economic environment.
Mortgage forbearance treatments have the total mortgage assets: this represents a 9.2% increase in been in place since 2009 and are aimed at assisting customers in forbearance stock since 31 December 2011.
At 31 December 2012, 10.4% of total mortgage approximately 83% were up-to-date with payments compared with assets 1.9 billion were subject to a forbearance arrangement, an approximately 97% of the mortgage population not subject to increase from 9.1% 1.8 billion at 31 December 2011.
The flow of forbearance arrangements has of these forbearance arrangements were in the performing book remained stable year on year.
x The most frequently occurring forbearance types were term x The majority of forbearance arrangements offered by Ulster Bank extensions 47% of assets subject to forbearance at 31 December currently are temporary concessions, accounting for 85% of assets 2012, interest only conversions 25% and capitalisations of arrears subject to forbearance at 31 December 2012.
The stock of cases subject to interest only conversions periods of one to three years and incorporate different levels of reflects legacy policy.
In 2009, UK Retail ceased providing this type repayment based on the customers ability to pay.
The additional of forbearance treatment for customers in financial difficulty and no treatment options developed by Ulster Retail will lead to a shift to longer permits interest only conversions on residential mortgages more long term arrangements over time.
where the customer is current on payments.
x Of these temporary forbearance types, the largest category at 31 x The provision cover on performing assets subject to forbearance December 2012 was interest only conversions, which accounted for was about five times that on assets not subject to forbearance.
46% of total assets subject to forbearance.
The other categories of temporary forbearance were payment concessions: reduced repayments 36% : and payment holidays 3%.
x The flow by forbearance type remained stable when compared with 2011 and there was a modest reduction, 3%, in customers seeking assistance for the first time year on year.
x The provision cover on performing assets subject to forbearance is approximately eight times higher than that on performing assets not subject to forbearance.
178 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 179 RBS GROUP 2012 Unsecured portfolios months UK Retail only or until the forbearance period expires.
After For unsecured portfolios in UK Retail and Ulster Bank, forbearance that point, the account is no longer separately identified for latent treatments comprise either debt consolidation loans provided to provisioning.
In the non-performing portfolio, assets are grouped into customers subject to collections activity who do not meet the Groups homogeneous portfolios sharing similar credit characteristics according standard underwriting criteria, longer-term financial hardship plans, or to the asset type.
Further characteristics such as LTVs, arrears status repayment arrangements to facilitate the repayment of overdraft and default vintage are also considered when assessing recoverable excesses.
Additionally, support is provided to customers experiencing amount and calculating the related provision requirement.
Whilst nonfinancial difficulties through breathing space initiatives on all unsecured performing forbearance retail loans do not form a separate risk pool, products, including credit cards, whereby the Group suspends the LGD models used to calculate the collective impairment provision collections activity for a 30-day period to allow customers to establish a will be affected by agreements made under forbearance debt repayment plan.
Arrears continue to accrue for customer loans arrangements.
In RBS Citizens, consumer loans subject to forbearance are x For unsecured portfolios in UK Retail, 162 million of balances segmented from the rest of the non-forborne population and assessed 1.1% of the total unsecured balances were subject to individually for impairment loan throughout their lives until the accounts forbearance at 2012 year end.
are repaid or fully written-off.
The amount of recorded impairment depends upon whether the loan is collateral dependent.
If the loans x For unsecured portfolios in Ulster Bank, 20 million 3.4% by are considered collateral dependent, the excess of the loans carrying value of the population was subject to forbearance at 31 amount over the fair value of the collateral is the impairment amount.
If December 2012. the loan is not deemed collateral dependent, the excess of the loans carrying amount over the present value of expected future cash flows Within RBS Citizens, granting of forbearance is significantly less is the impairment amount.
Any confirmed losses are charged off extensive for non real-estate portfolios, as it is predominantly restricted immediately.
to the granting of short-term 1-3 months loan extensions to customers to alleviate the financial burden caused by temporary Impairment loss provision methodology hardship.
Such extensions are offered only if a customer has A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an demonstrated a capacity and willingness to pay following the extension impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or term.
The number and frequency of extensions available to a given events since initial recognition of the asset has adversely affected the customer are limited per customer.
Additionally, in the case of loans amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
secured by vehicles and credit cards, RBS Citizens may offer temporary interest rate modifications, but no principal reduction.
RBS For retail loans, which are segmented into collective, homogenous Citizens may also provide forbearance to student loan borrowers portfolios, time-based measures, such as days past due, are typically consistent with the policy guidelines of the US Office of the Comptroller used as evidence of impairment.
For these portfolios, the Group of the Currency.
recognises an impairment at 90 days past due.
Provisioning for retail customers For corporate portfolios, given their complexity and nature, the Group Provisions are assessed in accordance with the Groups provisioning relies not only on time-based measures, but also on management policies.
judgement to identify evidence of impairment.
Other factors considered may include: significant financial difficulty of the borrower: a breach of The majority of retail forbearance takes place in the performing book contract: a loan restructuring: a probable bankruptcy: and any and, for the purposes of the latent loss provisions, these constitute a observable data indicating a measurable decrease in estimated future separate risk pool.
They are subject to higher provisioning rates than cash flows.
the remainder of the performing book.
These rates are reviewed regularly in both divisions.
Once forbearance is granted, the account continues to be assessed separately for latent provisioning for 24 179 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 180 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Early problem identification and problem debt management: Impairment loss provision methodology continued Depending on various factors as explained below, the Group uses one of The provision is determined based on a quantitative review of the the following three different methods to assess the amount of provision relevant portfolio, taking account of the level of arrears, the value of required: individual: collective: and latent.
any security, historical and projected cash recovery trends over the recovery period.
The provision also incorporates any adjustments x Individually assessed provisions - Provisions required for individually that may be deemed appropriate given current economic and credit significant impaired assets are assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Such adjustments may be determined based on: a there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been review of the current cash collections profile performance against incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference historical trends: updates to metric inputs, including model between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the recalibrations: and monitoring of operational processes used in estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets managing exposures, including the time taken to process nonoriginal effective interest rate.
Future cash flows are estimated performing exposures.
through a case-by-case analysis of individually assessed assets.
x Latent loss provisions - A separate approach is taken for provisions This assessment takes into account the benefit of any guarantees or held against impairments in the performing portfolio that have been other collateral held.
The value and timing of cash flow receipts are incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet based on available estimates in conjunction with facts available at date but which have not been identified at the balance sheet date.
Timings and amounts of cash flows are reviewed on subsequent assessment dates, as new information becomes The Groups methodologies to estimate latent loss provisions reflect: available.
The asset continues to be assessed on an individual basis until it is repaid in full, transferred to the performing portfolio or x the probability that the performing customer will default - historical written-off.
loss experience, adjusted, where appropriate, to take into account current economic and credit conditions: and x Collectively assessed provisions - Provisions on impaired credits below an agreed threshold are assessed on a portfolio basis to x the emergence period, defined as the period between an impairment reflect the homogeneous nature of the assets.
The Group segments event occurring and a loan being identified and reported as impaired.
impaired credits in its collectively assessed portfolios according to asset type, such as credit cards, personal loans, mortgages and Emergence periods are estimated at a portfolio level and reflect the smaller homogenous wholesale portfolios, such as business or portfolio product characteristics such as the repayment terms and the commercial banking.
A further distinction is made between those duration of the loss mitigation and recovery processes.
They are based impaired assets in collections and those in recoveries refer to on internal systems and processes within the particular portfolio and are Problem debt management on page 176 for a discussion of the reviewed regularly.
Refer to pages 224 to 241 for analysis of impaired loans, related provisions and impairments.
180 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 181 RBS GROUP 2012 Key credit portfolios Commercial real estate The commercial real estate lending portfolio totalled 63.0 billion at 31 December 2012, an 11.8 billion or 16% decrease over the year and 24.4 billion or 28% decrease in the last two years.
The commercial real estate sector comprises exposures to entities involved in the development of, or investment in, commercial and residential properties including housebuilders.
The analysis of lending utilisations below excludes rate risk management and contingent obligations.
This portfolio, which totalled 1.4 billion at 31 December 2012 2011 - 1.3 billion continues to perform in line with expectations and requires minimal provisions.
2 ROI: Republic of Ireland: NI: Northern Ireland: RoW: rest of world.
Key points appraised asset values.
Asset values vary significantly by type and x In line with the Groups strategy, the overall exposure to commercial geographic location.
Refer to the Ulster Bank Group Core and Nonreal estate fell during 2012, across all geographies.
The overall mix Core section on page 192 for details on the exposure in Ireland.
in terms of geography, sub-sector and investment versus development remained broadly unchanged.
x The UK portfolio is focused on London and the South East at approximately 43% in 2012 2011 - 44% with the remainder spread x Most of the decrease was in Non-Core and was due to repayments, across other UK Regions.
The Non-Core portfolio totalled 26.4 billion 42% of the portfolio at 31 December 2012 2011 - 34.3 x Speculative lending, defined by the Group as short-term lending to billion or 46% of the portfolio.
property developers without sufficient pre-let revenue at origination to support investment financing after practical completion, x The growth in Markets was caused by an increase in the inventory represented less than 1% of the portfolio at 31 December 2012.
The of US commercial real estate loans earmarked for securitisation as Groups appetite for originating speculative commercial real estate commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS.
CMBS warehouse lending is very limited and any such business requires senior activity is tightly controlled with limits on maximum portfolio size and management approval.
holding period, and marked-to-market on a daily basis.
x The commercial real estate sector is expected to remain challenging x With the exception of exposure in Spain and Ireland, the Group had in key markets and new business will be accommodated from run-off minimal commercial real estate exposure in the peripheral eurozone of existing Core exposure.
Over 5.5 billion of loans in UK Corporate countries.
Exposure in Spain was predominantly in the Non-Core Core and Non-Core have been repaid over the last 12 months portfolio and totalled 1.6 billion 2011 - 2.3 billion, of which 31% whilst the risk profile of the remaining performing book has remained 2011 - 55% was in default.
The majority of the portfolio is managed relatively unchanged.
2 Predominantly comprises overdrafts and multi-option facilities for which there is no single maturity date.
183 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 184 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Key credit portfolios : Commercial real estate continued Key points x The overall maturity profile has remained relatively unchanged over x The majority of Ulster Banks commercial real estate portfolio was the last 12 months.
categorised as under 1 year, owing to the high level of nonperforming assets in the portfolio as Ulster Bank includes most x Non-Core exposure maturing in under 1 year has reduced from renegotiated facilities as on demand.
21.7 billion in 2011 to 16.3 billion in 2012. x Refinancing risk remains a focus of management attention and is assessed throughout the credit risk management lifecycle.
The increase in defaulted exposure in UK standard credit processes and 5.1 billion 2011 - 5.9 billion Corporate is a result of a small number of significant individual was receiving varying degrees of heightened credit management cases.
The high proportion of the portfolio in the AQ10 band was under the Groups Watchlist process.
A further 29.8 billion 2011 driven by exposures in Non-Core Ulster Bank and International - 34.3 billion was managed within GRG and included Watchlist Banking and Core Ulster Bank.
The decrease in the portfolio managed by GRG was driven by Non-Core reductions.
unaudited 184 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 185 RBS GROUP 2012 The table below analyses commercial real estate Core and Non-Core lending by loan-to-value LTV which represents loan value before provisions.
2 Other performing loans of 6.6 billion 2011 - 9.2 billion include general corporate lending, typically unsecured, to commercial real estate companies, and major UK housebuilders.
Key points x 81% of the commercial real estate portfolio categorised as LTV x The average interest coverage ratios for UK Corporate Core and 100% was in Ulster Bank Group Core - 15%: Non-Core - 43% and Non-Core and International Banking Non-Core were 2.96x and International Banking Non-Core - 23%.
A majority of the portfolios 1.30x respectively, at 31 December 2012 2011 - 2.71x and 1.25x, are managed within GRG and are subject to review at least quarterly.
The US Retail & Commercial portfolio is managed on Significant levels of provisions have been taken against these the basis of debt service coverage, which includes scheduled portfolios.
Provisions as a percentage of REIL for the Ulster Bank principal amortisation.
The average debt service coverage for this Group commercial real estate portfolio were 58% at 31 December portfolio was 1.34x at 31 December 2012 2011 - 1.24x.
number of different approaches are used within the Group and across geographies to calculate interest coverage ratios, they may not be comparable for different portfolio types and organisations.
185 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 186 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Key credit portfolios continued Residential mortgages The majority of the Groups secured lending exposures were in the UK, Ireland and the US.
The analysis below includes both Core and Non-Core.
The table below shows LTVs for the Groups residential mortgage portfolio split between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing AQ10, with the average calculated on a weighted value basis.
Loan balances are as at the end of the year whereas property values are calculated using property index movements since the last formal valuation refer to page 170 for details.
This portfolio totalled 8.8 billion 2011 - 8.3 billion: 2010 - 7.8 billion and continues to perform in line with expectations with minimal provision of 248 million.
Key points x The maximum LTV available to new customers remains at 90%, UK Retail except for those buying properties under the government-sponsored, x The UK Retail mortgage portfolio totalled approximately 99.1 billion and indemnity backed, new build schemes that were launched at 31 December 2012, an increase of 2.8% from 31 December 2011. during the year, where the maximum LTV is 95%.
These schemes aim to support the mortgage market, particularly first time buyers, x The assets are prime mortgages and include 7.9 billion, 8% 2011 - and completions under the scheme totalled 35 million during the 6.9 billion of residential buy-to-let lending.
There is a small legacy year.
portfolio of self-certified mortgages 0.2% of the total mortgage portfolio.
Self-certified mortgages were withdrawn in 2004.
The x Based on the Halifax Price Index at September 2012, the portfolio interest rate product mix is approximately one third fixed rate with average indexed LTV by weighted value of debt outstanding was the remainder on variable rate products including those on managed 66.8% 2011 - 67.2% and 58.1% by volume 2011 - 57.8%.
ratio of total outstanding balances to total indexed property valuations is 48.5% 2011 - 48.4%.
x UK Retails mortgage business is subject to prudent underwriting standards.
These include an affordability test using a stressed x The arrears rate more than three payments in arrears, excluding interest rate, credit scoring with different pass marks depending on repossessions and shortfalls post property sale improved LTV as well as a range of specific criteria, for example, LTV marginally to 1.5% at 31 December 2012 from 1.6% at 31 December thresholds.
Changes over the last few years include: a reduction in 2011.
The number of properties repossessed in 2012 was 1,426 maximum LTV for prime residential mortgage lending from 100% to compared with 1,671 in 2011.
Arrears rates remain sensitive to 95% in the first quarter of 2008 and from 95% to 90% in the third economic developments and are currently benefiting from the low quarter of 2008 and a tightening of credit scoring pass marks: credit interest rate environment.
score thresholds were increased in the third quarter of 2009 and x The mortgage impairment charge was 92 million for 2012 again in the third quarter of 2010.
In the first quarter of 2011, new compared with 182 million in 2011 primarily due to lower loss rate scorecards were introduced alongside a further tightening of adjustments on the non-performing back book, and a stable thresholds, these were tightened still further in the second quarter of underlying rate of defaults.
2012. x 25.6% of the residential owner occupied UK Retail mortgage book is x Gross new mortgage lending remained strong at 14 billion.
The on interest only terms down from 27.3% in 2011.
A further 9.1% are average of individual LTV on new originations was 65.2% weighted on mixed repayments split between a combination of interest only by value of lending 2011 - 63.0% and 61.3% by volume 2011 - and capital repayments 2011 - 9.6%.
The ratio of total lending to total property valuations was only repayment products from sale to residential owner occupied 56.3% 2011 - 52.9%.
Average LTV by volume is arrived at by customers with effect from 1 December 2012.
Interest only calculating the LTV on each individual mortgage with no weighting repayment remains an option on buy-to-let mortgages.
At 1.6%, the applied in the calculation of the average.
The ratio approach is the percentage of accounts more than 3 payments in arrears was similar sum of all lending divided by the value of all properties held as to the 1.4% observed on capital repayment mortgages.
187 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 188 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Key credit portfolios : Residential mortgages: Key points continued RBS Citizens Ulster Bank x RBS Citizens mortgage portfolio totalled 21.5 billion at 31 x Ulster Banks residential mortgage portfolio totalled 19.2 billion at December 2012, a reduction of 11% from 2011 24.2 billion.
The 31 December 2012, with 88% in the Republic of Ireland and 12% in Core business comprises 89% of the portfolio.
At constant exchange rates, the portfolio decreased 2% from 31 December 2011 as a result of natural x The portfolio comprises 6.2 billion Core - 5.8 billion: Non-Core - amortisation and limited growth due to low market demand.
0.4 billion of residential mortgages, of which 1% are in second lien position.
There is also 15.3 billion Core - 13.3 billion: Non-Core - x The assets include 2.3 billion of exposure 12% of residential buy- 2.0 billion of home equity loans and lines.
Home equity Core to-let loans.
The interest rate product mix is approximately 91% on a consists of 47% in first lien position while Non-Core consists of 95% variable rate product including tracker products and 9% on a fixed in second lien position.
x RBS Citizens lending originates predominantly in the footprint x 16% of the total portfolio is on interest only which reflects legacy states of New England, Mid Atlantic and Mid West regions.
At 31 policy and is no longer available to residential mortgage customers December 2012, 17.9 billion 83% of the total portfolio was within on a permanent basis.
Interest only is permitted on a temporary footprint.
basis under the suite of forbearance treatments available within Ulster Bank refer to page 178 for further information.
Interest only x The Non-Core portfolio comprises 11% of the mortgage portfolio repayment remains an option for private customers within Northern with the serviced by others SBO portfolio being the largest Ireland on an exception basis.
The SBO portfolio consists of purchased pools of home equity loans and lines.
The full year charge-off rate was 7.4% x Average LTVs increased from 31 December 2011 to 31 December for 2012 excluding one-time events, the charge-off rate was 6.8%, 2012, on a value basis, as a result of decreases in the Central which represents a year-on-year improvement 2011 - 8.6%.
It is Statistics Office house price index 4% impacting the Ulster Bank characterised by out-of-footprint geographies, high 95% second portfolio.
The average of individual LTV on new originations was lien concentration, and high LTV exposure 111% weighted average stable in 2012 at 74% weighted by value of lending and 69.4% by LTV at 31 December 2012.
The SBO book has been closed to new volume 2011 - 67.3%.
The volume of business remains very low.
purchases since the third quarter of 2007 and is in run-off, with The maximum LTV available to Ulster Bank customers is 90% with exposure down from 2.3 billion at 31 December 2011 to 1.8 billion the exception of a specific Northern Ireland scheme which permits at 31 December 2012.
The arrears rate of the SBO portfolio has LTVs of up to 95%, in which Ulster Banks exposure is capped at decreased from 2.3% at 31 December 2011 to 1.9% at 31 85% LTV.
December 2012 due primarily to portfolio liquidation highest risk borrowers have been charged-off, as well as more effective account x Refer to the Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core section on servicing and collections.
page 192 for commentary on mortgage REIL and repossessions.
x The current weighted average LTV of the mortgage portfolio decreased from 77% at 31 December 2011 to 75% at 31 December 2012, driven by increases in the Case-Shiller home price index from the third quarter of 2011 to the third quarter of 2012.
The current weighted average LTV of the mortgage portfolio, excluding SBO, is 71%.
unaudited 188 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 189 RBS GROUP 2012 Personal lending The Groups personal lending portfolio includes credit cards, unsecured loans, auto finance and overdrafts.
The majority of personal lending exposures exist in the UK and the US.
Impairment charge as a proportion of average loans and receivables are shown in the following table.
2012 2011 2010 Impairment Impairment Impairment charge as a % charge as a % charge as a % Average of average Average of average Average of average loans and loans and loans and loans and loans and loans and receivables receivables receivables receivables receivables receivables m % m % m % UK Retail cards 1 5,624 2.3 5,675 3.0 6,0255.0 UK Retail loans 1 6,513 2.5 7,755 2.8 9,863 4.8 RBS Citizens cards 2 916 3.8 936 5.11,005 9.9 RBS Citizens auto loans 2 5,289 0.1 4,856 0.2 5,256 0.6 Notes: 1 The ratio for UK Retail assets refers to the impairment charge for the year.
2 The ratio for RBS Citizens refers to the impairment charge in the year, net of recoveries realised in the year.
Key points RBS Citizens UK Retail x RBS Citizens' credit card portfolio totalled 948 million at 31 x The UK personal lending portfolio, comprises credit cards, December 2012 2011 - 968 million.
RBS Citizens' credit card unsecured loans and overdrafts, and totalled 14.7 billion at 31 business lends predominantly within the Bank's 12 state footprint December 2012 2011 - 16.0 billion.
and has traditionally adopted conservative risk strategies.
Given the external climate, tighter lending criteria has been introduced leading x The decrease in portfolio size of 8.1% was driven by continued to an improvement in credit quality.
The portfolio's quarterly subdued loan recruitment activity and a continuing general market annualised loss performance in the third quarter of 2012 was 3.4% trend of customers repaying unsecured debt.
and ranked seventh out of 20 large and regional banks tracked.
x The impairment charge on unsecured lending was 440 million for x RBS Citizens' auto loan portfolio totalled 5.4 billion at 31 December the year, down 24% on 2011, reflecting the continued benefit of risk 2012 2011 - 4.8 billion.
The auto loan business originates appetite tightening in prior years, lower unsecured balances and secured loans through a closely managed network of dealerships also the investment in collections and recoveries capability.
UK mainly located in the banks footprint.
The portfolio continues to Retail continues to support customers experiencing financial possess strong credit risk fundamentals.
The business purchased a difficulties including the provision of breathing space, refer to the 608 million auto loan portfolio from a large financial institution in the disclosures on forbearance on page 178 for more information.
first quarter of 2012 that possessed a comparable credit and Impairments remain sensitive to the external environment, including collateral profile.
The acquired portfolio continues to outperform its unemployment levels and interest rates.
The portfolio's quarterly annualised loss performance in the third quarter of 2012 was 0.18% and x Industry benchmarks for cards arrears remain stable, with the Group continues to perform favourable against industry.
189 GRA12 3d Credit Risk management 157 193 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 11:55 Page 190 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Key credit portfolios continued Core Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core The impairment charge for the year of 1,364 million 2011 - 1,384 Overview million: 2010 - 1,161 million reflects the difficult economic climate in At 31 December 2012, Ulster Bank Group accounted for 10% of the Ireland, with elevated default levels across both mortgage and other Groups total gross loans to customers 2011 and 2010 - 10% and 8% of corporate portfolios.
The mortgage sector accounted for 646 million the Groups Core gross loans to customers 2011 - 8%: 2010 - 9%.
47% of the total 2012 impairment charge.
Ulster Banks financial performance continues to be overshadowed by the challenging economic climate in Ireland, with impairments remaining Non-Core elevated as high unemployment, coupled with higher taxation and limited The impairment charge for the year was 976 million, a decrease of liquidity in the economy, continues to depress the property market and 1,357 million 2011 - 2,333 million: 2010 - 2,682 million, with the domestic spending.
commercial real estate sector accounting for 899 million 92% of the total 2012 impairment charge.
The impairment charge of 2,340 million for 2012 2011 - 3,717 million: 2010 - 3,843 million was driven by a combination of new defaulting customers and higher provisions on existing defaulted cases due primarily to deteriorating security values.
Provisions as a percentage of risk elements in lending increased from 53% in 2011, to 57% in 2012, predominantly as a result of the deterioration in the value of the Non-Core commercial real estate development portfolio.
Ulster Bank impairment provisions take into account recovery strategies for its commercial real estate portfolio, as currently there is very limited liquidity in Irish commercial and development property.
Core coverage is diluted due to the increased REIL relating to corporate renegotiations with lower x Core mortgage REIL accounted for 1.0 billion of the overall provision requirements.
Adjusting for these cases Core coverage increase, the trend reflecting continued deterioration of would be 56%.
However, the number of properties repossessed in 2012 was 127 81 on a voluntary basis compared x Non-Core REIL decreased by 0.3 billion reflecting lower defaults as with 161 123 on a voluntary basis in 2011. well as recoveries and write-offs of 0.2 billion.
x Core corporate REIL accounted for 1.0 billion of the overall x At 31 December 2012, 60% of REIL was in Non-Core 2011 - 68%.
increase, the movement driven by a small number of renegotiated The majority of the Non-Core commercial real estate development arrangements for higher value real estate customers.
portfolio is non-performing with provision coverage of 65%.
Geographical analysis Commercial real estate The commercial real estate lending portfolio for Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core totalled 15.3 billion at 31 December 2012, of which 11.0 billion or 72% was in Non-Core.
The geographic split of the total Ulster Bank Group commercial real estate portfolio, based on the location of the underlying security, remained similar to 2011, with 63% in the Republic of Ireland, 26% in Northern Ireland and 11% in the UK excluding Northern Ireland.
A reduction over commercial real estate exposures to its problem management the year of 1.8 billion primarily reflects Ulster Banks continuing framework, where various measures may be agreed to assist strategy to reduce concentration risk to this sector.
customers whose loans are performing but who are experiencing temporary financial difficulties.
For further details on Wholesale x The outlook for the property sector remains challenging.
While there renegotiations refer to page 173. may be some signs of stabilisation in main urban centres, the outlook continues to be negative for secondary property locations on the island of Ireland.
Residential mortgages The mortgage lending portfolio analysis by country of location of the underlying security is set out below.
2012 2011 m m ROI 16,873 17,767 NI 2,289 2,253 19,162 20,020 193 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 194 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Balance sheet analysis Financial assets 195 Exposure summary 195 Sector and geographic concentration 196 Asset quality 205 Debt securities 209 IFRS measurement classification and issuer 209 Ratings 210 Asset-backed securities 213 Introduction 213 Product, geography and IFRS measurement classification 214 Ratings 217 Equity shares 218 Derivatives 220 Summary 220 Credit derivatives 221 Monoline insurers 222 Credit derivative product companies CDPCs 223 REIL, provisions and AFS reserves 224 Divisional analysis 224 Sector and geographical regional analyses 226 Provisions and AFS reserves methodology 235 REIL flow statement 235 REIL and PPLs summary 236 Past due analysis 236 Impairment provisions flow statement 236 Impairment charge analysis 239 AFS reserves 240 AFS gross unrealised losses 241 194 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 195 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis Credit risk assets analysed on the pages 163 to 167 are reported internally to senior management.
However, they exclude certain exposures, primarily securities and reverse repurchase agreements, and take account of legal netting agreements, that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the criteria for offset in IFRS.
The table below is therefore provided to supplement the credit risk assets analysis and other analysis to reconcile to the balance sheet grossed up for disposal groups.
Financial assets Exposure summary The table below analyses the Groups financial asset exposures, both gross and net of offset arrangements.
2 This reflects the amount by which the Groups credit risk exposure is reduced through arrangements, such as master netting agreements, which give the Group a legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty.
In addition, the Group holds collateral in respect of individual loans and advances to banks and customers.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
The Group obtains collateral in the form of securities relating to reverse repurchase agreements.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.. 3 Lending non-IFRS offset includes cash collateral posted against derivative liabilities of 24.6 billion, 2011 - 31.4 billion: 2010 - 31.0 billion and cash management pooling of 10.3 billion, 2011 - 9.7 billion: 2010 - 13.8 billion.
4 Derivative non-IFRS offset includes cash collateral received against derivative assets of 34.1 billion 2011 - 37.2 billion: 2010 - 31.1 billion.
195 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 196 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: Financial assets continued Sector and geographic concentration The following tables provide an analysis of credit concentration of financial assets by sector and geography.
Geographical regions are based on the location of the lending or issuer.
Key points tightly controlled through the combination of the single name x Financial asset exposures after offset including disposal groups concentration framework, a suite of credit policies specifically decreased by 110 billion or 12% to 814 billion, reflecting the tailored to the sector and country limits.
Exposures to the banking Groups focus on reducing its funded balance sheet, primarily in sector decreased by 22 billion during the period, primarily due to Non-Core, Markets and International Banking.
reduced interbank lending and derivative activity, and a reduction in limits to banks in countries under stress, such as the peripheral x Reductions were across all major balance sheet categories: lending eurozone countries.
54 billion, debt securities 44 billion and derivatives 88 billion.
Conditions in the financial markets and the Groups focus on risk x Exposure to other financial institutions comprising traded and non appetite and sector concentration had a direct impact on the traded products is spread across a wide range of financial composition of its portfolio during the year.
companies including insurance, securitisation vehicles, financial intermediaries including broker dealers and central counterparties x Exposures to central and local governments decreased by CCPs, financial guarantors - monolines and credit derivative 34 billion principally in debt securities.
This was driven by Markets product companies CDPCs - and funds comprising unleveraged, fide-risking its balance sheet, management of the Group Treasury hedge and leveraged funds.
The size of the Core portfolio has liquidity portfolio as well as overall risk reduction in respect of decreased marginally since 2011.
Entities in this sector remain eurozone exposures.
The Groups portfolio comprises exposures to vulnerable to market shocks or contagion from the banking sector.
central governments and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities, Credit risk in these sectors is managed through the single name primarily in the Groups key markets in the UK, Western Europe and concentration, sector concentration and asset and product class the US.
frameworks, with specific sector and product caps in place where there is a perception of heightened credit risk, such as committed x Exposure to financial institutions was 28 billion lower, across lending to banks, leveraged funds and insurance holding companies.
securities, loans and derivatives, driven by economy-wide subdued The Group continues to develop its risk appetite framework for activity.
CCPs to reflect increased activity with these entities driven by regulatory requirements.
The Group is also managing down its x The banking sector is one of the largest in the Groups portfolio.
The exposures to monolines and CDPCs with the aim of exiting these sector is well diversified geographically and by exposure with portfolios.
derivative exposures being largely collateralised.
The sector is 197 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 198 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: Financial assets: Sector and geographic concentration continued Key points continued Within lending: x The Groups exposure to property and construction sector UK Retail increased its lending to homeowners by 4.1 billion, including decreased by 11 billion, principally in commercial real estate first-time buyers, reflecting the impact of the UK Governments Funding lending.
The majority of the Groups Core property exposure is for Lending Scheme FLS : unsecured lending balances fell.
In relation to property exposure, the UK Corporate and Ulster Bank divisions saw further deterioration in UK Corporate lending decreased by 3.8 billion, reflecting a combination asset quality during the year.
of customer deleveraging with low business confidence and portfolio fiderisking, particularly in commercial real estate, which fell by 3.5 billion.
x Retail, wholesale and repairs sector decreased by 4 billion, reflecting fide-leveraging of customers in the retail sector.
Non-Core continued to make significant progress on its balance sheet strategy by reducing lending by 24 billion across all sectors, principally x Manufacturing exposure reduced by 9 billion primarily reflecting property and construction, where commercial real estate lending Non-Core reductions.
decreased by 9.4 billion, reflecting repayments and asset sales.
x Transport and storage includes the Groups shipping exposures of For further discussion on debt securities and derivatives, refer to pages 11 billion which comprises asset-backed exposures to ocean-going 209 to 217 and 220 respectively.
Conditions remained poor across the major shipping market segments in 2012, with low charter rates and vessel values.
A key protection for the Group is the minimum security covenant.
This covenant is tested each quarter on an individual vessel basis to ensure prompt remedial action is taken if values fall significantly below agreed loan coverage ratios.
There was an increase in the number of clients suffering liquidity issues or failing to meet their minimum security covenant and a commensurate rise in referrals to the Watchlist and the GRG.
At 31 December 2012, 20% of the Groups exposure to this sector was in Watchlist Red.
At 31 December 2012, 0.7 billion of loans were included in risk elements in lending with an associated provision of 0.2 billion and impairment charge of 0.1 billion for 2012.
198 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 199 RBS GR RBS GROUP 2012 OUP 2012 The tables on pages 199 to 204 analyse financial assets by geographical region based on location of transaction office and sector.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.
2 Includes central and local government.
3 Includes 79.3 billion 2011 - 79.4 billion: 2010 - 57.2 billion relating to cash and balances at central banks.
4 Loans made by the Group's consolidated conduits to asset owning companies are included within Financal institutions - other.
204 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 205 RBS GROUP 2012 Asset quality The asset quality analysis presented below is based on the Groups Asset quality band Probability of default range internal asset quality ratings which have ranges for the probability of AQ1 0% - 0.034% default, as set out below.
Customers are assigned credit grades, based AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% on various credit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% the customer type.
All credit grades across the Group map to both a AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% Group level asset quality scale, used for external financial reporting, and AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% a master grading scale for wholesale exposures used for internal AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% management reporting across portfolios.
Debt securities are analysed by AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% external ratings and are therefore excluded from the following table and AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% are set out on pages 210 to 212.
Key points x In 2012, the Group implemented updates to certain models, x Loans and advances to customers: Lower internal ratings due to including those used for sovereign and financial institution model changes resulted in balances shifting from AQ1 to lower counterparties, to incorporate more recent data and reflect new bands.
The decrease in AQ5 and AQ6 balances is in line with the regulatory requirements applicable to wholesale internal ratings overall balance sheet reduction.
This has resulted in ratings migration from AQ1, primarily to AQ2-AQ5.
However, it is not practicable to quantify the x Derivatives: Balance sheet reductions in Markets and model impact of model updates on individual asset quality bands.
The updates resulted in decrease in AQ1 balances.
Increase in AQ2- Group had modified various risk frameworks, including risk appetite AQ4 balances reflects the re-grading of counterparties previously framework and latent loss assessment in anticipation of these included in AQ1.
Further updates, primarily of models used for the corporate counterparties, are planned for 2013.
The AQ composition x Impaired and past due assets, net of impairment provisions, of the corporate portfolio has not changed materially during the year.
Continued weakness in commercial real estate market overall and difficult conditions in x Loans and advances to banks: AQ1 balances decreased by Ireland are significant contributors to this.
41.8 billion reflecting the balance sheet reduction, mainly in Markets and also the impact of model changes which resulted in certain counterparties moving to lower AQ bands, primarily to AQ2- AQ4, which increased by 6.8 billion, 8.7 billion and 9.1 billion respectively.
208 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 209 RBS GROUP 2012 Debt securities IFRS measurement classification and issuer The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and IFRS measurement classifications.
US central and local government includes US federal agencies: financial institutions includes US government sponsored agencies and securitisation entities.
209 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 210 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: Debt securities continued AFS Key points x Decreased by 26.4 billion, comprising 14.9 billion of central and Debt securities decreased by 44.5 billion or 21% during the year, local government, other financial institutions 7.9 billion, banks 4.3 principally due to a reduction of 26.4 billion in available-for-sale AFS billion offset by an increase in Corporate of 0.6 billion: across the Group and 16.7 billion of HFT positions within Markets x UK and US government bonds fell by 3.7 billion and 1.8 billion reflecting a combination of fide-risking strategies and active balance sheet respectively, primarily due to disposals.
x Group Treasury reduced its liquidity portfolio, reflecting smaller HFT balance sheet resulting in lower government bonds primarily x The 16.7 billion decrease comprised 13.3 billion of central and German and French 6.0 billion local government, 1.3 billion financial institutions, 1.2 billion of banks and 0.9 billion of corporate: x Japanese government bonds fell by 2.2 billion as lower collateral was required following a change in clearing status from direct selfx Decrease in UK and US government bonds of 1.3 billion and 2.3 clearing to agency.
billion respectively reflected maturities and disposals in line with Markets balance sheet management strategy and unwinding of x Reduction in ABS: US agency decrease reflected maturities and positions.
disposals in light of favourable market conditions in the US, Markets, and US Retail & Commercial: and Non-Core strategic reductions x Reduction in other government bonds principally French, Italian, also contributed to the decrease in bonds issued by financial Swiss and Japanese, was partially offset by moves to German and institutions.
x Bank bonds decreased by 4.3 billion of which 1.7 billion related to Spanish covered bonds reflecting disposals by Group Treasury, and lower positions in Australian and German securities reflected the close out of positions and maturities, respectively.
Ratings The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and external ratings.
Ratings are based on the lower of Standard and Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
2 Percentage calculated on Group before RFS MI.
Key points x AAA rated debt securities decreased as France and Austria were x The decrease in A to AAdebt securities related to downgrades of downgraded to AA in the first half of 2012 and also reflected the Italy and Spain to BBB and BBBrespectively, in the first half of Groups reduced holdings of UK government bonds.
Additionally, 2012, along with a downgrade of selected banks.
certain Spanish covered bonds were downgraded in the first half of 2012. x Non-investment grade and unrated debt securities decreased by 2.2 billion and accounted for 4% of the portfolio.
212 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 213 RBS GROUP 2012 Asset-backed securities Residential mortgage-backed securities Introduction RMBS are securities that represent an interest in a portfolio of residential The Group structures, originates, distributes and trades debt in the form mortgages.
Repayments made on the underlying mortgages are used to of loan, bond and derivative instruments in all major currencies and debt make payments to holders of the RMBS.
The risk of the RMBS will vary capital markets in North America, Western Europe, Asia and major primarily depending on the quality and geographic region in which the emerging markets.
The carrying value of the Group's debt securities is underlying mortgage assets are located and the credit enhancement of detailed below.
Several tranches of notes are issued, each secured against the same portfolio of mortgages, but providing differing The Groups credit market activities gave rise to risk concentrations in levels of seniority to match the risk appetite of investors.
The most junior asset-backed securities ABS.
The Group has exposures to ABS, which or equity notes will suffer early capital and interest losses experienced are predominantly debt securities, but can also be held in derivative form.
by the referenced mortgage collateral, with each more senior note ABS have an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets.
The benefiting from the protection provided by the subordinated notes below.
risks and rewards of the referenced pool are passed onto investors by the Additional credit enhancements may be provided to the holder of senior issue of securities with varying seniority by a special purpose entity.
RMBS notes, including provided by monoline insurers.
Debt securities include residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, The main categories of mortgages that serve as collateral to RMBS held commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS, collateralised debt by the Group with related vintages are set out below and described in the obligations CDOs, collateralised loan obligations CLOs and other Glossary on pages 528 to 535.
The US market has more established ABS.
In many cases, the risk associated with these assets is hedged by definitions of differing underlying mortgage quality and these are used as credit derivatives.
The counterparties to some of these hedge the basis for the Group's RMBS categorisation.
The Group RMBS classifications include sub-prime and non-conforming.
The following tables summarise the gross and net exposures and Non-conforming RMBS include Alt-A RMBS.
Classification as sub-prime carrying values of these securities by the location of the underlying or Alt-A is based on Fair Isaac Corporation scores FICO, level of assets at 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010 and by IFRS measurement documentation and loan-to-value LTV ratios of the underlying mortgage classification of held-for-trading HFT, designated at fair value DFV, loans.
RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the mortgage portfolio available-for-sale AFS and loans and receivables LAR.
Gross comprises loans with FICO scores between 500 and 650 with full or exposures represent the principal amounts relating to ABS.
Mortgages in Alt-A RMBS portfolios have FICO sponsored or similar RMBS comprises securities that are: a guaranteed scores of 640 to 720, limited documentation and an original LTV of 70% or effectively guaranteed by the US government, by way of its support for to 100%.
US federal agencies and government sponsored enterprises or b guaranteed by the Dutch government.
Net exposures represent the carrying value after taking account of protection purchased from monoline insurers and other counterparties, but exclude the effect of counterparty credit valuation adjustments.
The hedge provides credit protection of both principal and interest cash flows in the event of default by the counterparty.
The value of this protection is based on the underlying instrument being protected.
217 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 218 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis continued Equity shares The table below analyses holdings of equity shares for eurozone countries and other countries with balances more than 100 million by country, issuer and measurement classification.
The HFT portfolios in Markets comprise positions in the Markets Derivative Products Solutions business primarily for economic hedging of liabilities including debt issuances and equity derivatives.
The AFS portfolios include capital stock in the Federal Home Loans Bank a government sponsored entity, included in Other financial institutions and the Federal Reserve Bank together 0.7 billion, that US Retail & Commercial are required to hold and a number a number of individually small holdings in unlisted companies, mainly acquired through loan renegotiations in GRG.
2 Includes government sponsored entities GSEs.
219 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 220 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis continued Derivatives Summary The table below analyses the fair value of the Groups derivatives by type of contract.
Master netting arrangements in respect of mark-to-market mtm positions and collateral shown below do not result in a net presentation on the Groups balance sheet under IFRS.
Trades are generally closed out daily hence mark-to-market was insignificant assets - 41 million: liabilities - 255 million.
2 Interest rate notional includes 15,864 billion 2011 - 16,377 billion relating to contracts with central clearing houses.
3 Comprises equity and commodity derivatives.
Key points x Net exposure, after taking account of position and collateral netting Derivative fair values are driven by complex factors such as changes in arrangements, decreased by 38% liabilities decreased by 35% due foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit default swap spreads and to lower derivative fair values, driven by market movements, other underlying rates.
At 31 December 2012, derivative fair values were including foreign exchange rates and increased use of compression in a net asset position of 7.6 billion.
x Group Treasury issues long term fixed rate debt that is hedged with x Interest rate contracts decreased due to the increased use of floating rate interest rate swaps and also uses swaps to hedge fixed compression cycles reflecting a greater number of market rate indefinite maturity liabilities such as equity and customer participants and hence trade-matching and the effect of exchange accounts.
As interest rates have fallen over recent years the fair rate movements.
This was partially offset by downward shifts in value of these swaps has increased.
This net asset position mirrored interest rate yields.
by the net liability position relating to the difference between the fair value and carrying value on fixed rate loans and current accounts.
x The decrease in exchange rate contracts reflected the impact of exchange rate movements and trade maturities.
This was partially x Within Markets the hedging of issued notes, more exotic derivatives offset by higher trade volumes, reflecting hedge funds taking and long dated zero coupon inflation structures have led to a advantage of market uncertainty.
positive fair value which is not offset by other derivatives or hedges.
x Credit derivatives decreased due to a managed risk reduction and an increase in trades compressed through compression cycles.
220 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 221 RBS GROUP 2012 Credit derivatives The Group trades credit derivatives as part of its client led business and to mitigate credit risk.
The Groups credit derivative exposures relating to proprietary trading are minimal.
The table below analyses the Groups bought and sold protection.
221 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 222 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: Derivatives continued Monoline insurers The table below summarises the Group's exposure to monolines, all of which are in Non-Core.
2012 2011 2010 m m m Gross exposure to monolines 561 1,888 4,023 Hedges with financial institutions 12 71 71 Credit valuation adjustment 192 1,198 2,443 Net exposure to monolines 357 619 1,509 Credit valuation adjustment as a % of gross exposure 34% 63% 61% Counterparty and credit risk RWAs 1.2bn 3.6bn 17.8bn The table below summarises monoline exposures by rating.
Credit ratings are based on those from rating agencies Standard and Poors and Moody's.
Where the ratings differ, the lower of the two is taken.
unaudited 222 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 223 RBS GROUP 2012 Credit derivative product companies CDPCs A summary of the Group's exposure to CDPCs, all of which are in Non-Core, is detailed below.
2012 2011 2010 m m m Gross exposure to CDPCs 554 1,896 1,244 Valuation adjustment 314 1,034 490 Net exposure to CDPCs 240 862 754 Valuation adjustment as a % of gross exposure 57% 55% 39% Counterparty and credit risk RWAs 2.0bn 8.4bn 7.2bn Capital deductions 245m 280m The table below details CDPC exposures by rating.
Fair value: Notional: reference protected protected Gross Valuation Net assets assets exposure adjustment exposure 2012 m m m m m AAA 43 43 A to AA- 619 612 7 7 Non-investment grade 16,254 15,841 413 173 240 Unrated 4,073 3,939 134 134 20,989 20,435 554 314 240 2011 AAA 213 212 1 1 A to AA- 646 632 14 3 11 Non-investment grade 19,671 18,151 1,520 788 732 Unrated 3,974 3,613 361 243 118 24,504 22,608 1,896 1,034 862 2010 AAA 213 212 1 1 BBBto A- 644 629 15 4 11 Non-investment grade 20,066 19,050 1,016 401 615 Unrated 4,165 3,953 212 85 127 25,088 23,844 1,244 490 754 Key points x The exposure to CDPCs decreased during the year primarily driven x The valuation adjustment decreased on an absolute basis in line by tighter credit spreads of the underlying reference loans and with the decrease in exposure while remaining stable on a relative bonds together with a decrease in the relative value of senior basis.
tranches compared with the underlying reference portfolio and the impact of restructuring certain exposures in the first half of the year.
unaudited 223 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 224 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: continued REIL, provisions and AFS reserves Risk elements in lending REIL comprises impaired loans and accruing loans past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are all loans including renegotiated loans for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected and those awaiting individual assessment.
A latent provision is established for the latter.
Divisional analysis The following tables analyse gross loans and advances to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and the related debt management measures and ratios by division.
x The impairment charge for 2012 of 5.3 billion was 26% lower than x Non-Core REIL decreased by 2.6 billion or 11% reflecting a mixture in 2011.
The main drivers were lower impairment across Non-Core of repayments and write-offs within UK Corporate, Markets and portfolios down 1.5 billion or 40% mainly as a result of lower International Banking corporate portfolios.
impairments across Ulster Banks commercial real estate portfolio down 1.3 billion or 58% and continued improvement across Core x Conditions in Ireland remain difficult and economic indicators UK portfolios.
continue to be weak, this is reflected in the Ulster Bank credit metrics with Core REIL increasing by 2.0 billion since 31 December 2011, primarily within mortgage and commercial real estate portfolios, to 7.5 billion and is now 23% of loans and advances to customers.
Impairments continue to outpace write-offs.
Commercial real estate lending metrics were as follows: Total Non-Core 1 2012 2011 2012 2011 Lending gross 63.0bn 74.8bn 26.4bn 34.3bn Of which REIL 22.1bn 22.9bn 17.1bn 18.8bn Provisions 10.1bn 9.5bn 8.3bn 8.2bn REIL as a % of gross loans to customers 35.1% 30.6% 64.8% 54.8% Provisions as a % of REIL 46% 41% 49% 44% Note: 1 Excludes property related lending to customers in other sectors managed by Real Estate Finance.
Ulster Bank is a significant contributor to Non-Core commercial real estate lending.
For further information refer to the section on Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core.
225 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 226 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: REIL, provisions and AFS reserves continued Sector and geographical regional analyses: Group The following tables analyse gross loans and advances to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and the related debt management measures and ratios by sector and geography by location of lending office for the Group, Core and Non-Core.
234 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 235 RBS GROUP 2012 Provisions and AFS reserves methodology The Group reviews its portfolios of available-for-sale financial assets for The Group's consumer portfolios, which consist of high volume, small evidence of impairment, which includes: default or delinquency in interest value credits, have highly efficient largely automated processes for or principal payments: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or identifying problem credits and very short timescales, typically three obligor: and it becoming probable that the issuer will enter bankruptcy or months, before resolution or adoption of various recovery methods.
However, the disappearance of an active Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume credits, which market because an entitys financial instruments are no longer publicly tend to be structured to meet individual customer requirements.
traded is not evidence of impairment.
Furthermore, a downgrade of an entitys credit rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment, although it Provisions are assessed on a case by case basis by experienced may be evidence of impairment when considered with other available specialists with input from professional valuers and accountants.
A decline in the fair value of a financial asset below its cost Group operates a transparent provisions governance framework, setting or amortised cost is not necessarily evidence of impairment.
Determining thresholds to trigger enhanced oversight and challenge.
whether objective evidence of impairment exists requires the exercise of management judgement.
The unrecognised losses on the Groups Analyses of provisions are set out on pages 236 to 238. available-for-sale debt securities are concentrated in its portfolios of mortgage-backed securities.
The losses reflect the widening of credit Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus spreads as a result of the reduced market liquidity in these securities and directly related transaction costs and are subsequently measured at fair the current uncertain macroeconomic outlook in the US and Europe.
The value with changes in fair value reported in owners equity until disposal, underlying securities remain unimpaired.
at which stage the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
When there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale financial asset Analyses of AFS debt securities and related AFS reserves are set out on is impaired, any decline in its fair value below original cost is removed page 240. from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
REIL flow statement REIL are stated without giving effect to any security held that could reduce the eventual loss should it occur or to any provisions marked.
235 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 236 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: REIL, provisions and AFS reserves continued REIL and PPLs summary The table below analyses REIL between UK and overseas, based on the location of the lending office.
Past due analysis The table below shows loans and advances to customers that were past due at the balance sheet date but are not considered impaired.
Impairment provisions The table below analyses impairment provisions in respect of loans and advances to banks and customers.
Key points x Within Core, the increase in collectively assessed provisions related x Non-Core individually assessed provisions decreased by 0.2 billion, primarily to Ulster Banks mortgage and corporate portfolio reflecting principally reflecting write-offs in Markets and UK Corporate.
a continuation of difficult conditions in Ireland.
238 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 239 RBS GROUP 2012 Impairment charge analysis The table below analyses the impairment charge for loans and securities.
2 Includes related interest rate hedge instruments.
Non-Core by donating division UK International Ulster US Corporate Banking Bank R&C 1 Other Total 2012 m m m m m m Individually assessed 206 913 842 25 1,936 Collectively assessed 71 25 208 8 312 Latent loss 37 1 116 6 2 72 Loans to customers 240 914 983 177 6 2,320 Securities 97 97 Charge to income statement 240 817 983 177 6 2,223 2011 Individually assessed 512 679 2,426 3 1 3,615 Collectively assessed 129 29 372 14 516 Latent loss 113 106 66 8 293 Loans to customers 528 679 2,349 303 21 3,838 Securities 78 5 83 Charge to income statement 528 757 2,349 303 16 3,921 Notes: 1 Retail & Commercial.
239 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 240 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet analysis: REIL, provisions and AFS reserves continued The tables below analyses the impairment charge for loans and securities.
2 Customer loan impairment charge as a percentage of gross loans and advances to customers including assets of disposal groups and excluding reverse repurchase agreements.
This category is used for advances which are not past due 90 days or revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
2012 2011 2010 m m m Potential problem loans 807 739 633 Both REIL and PPL are reported gross and take no account of the value of any security held which could reduce the eventual loss should it occur, nor of any provision marked.
Therefore impaired assets which are highly collateralised, such as mortgages, will have a low coverage ratio of provisions held against the reported impaired balance.
AFS reserves The table below analyses available-for-sale debt securities and related reserves, gross of tax.
Refer to Country risk section for additional analysis on eurozone country by country AFS reserves.
240 GRA12 3e Balance sheet analysis 194 241 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:03 Page 241 RBS GROUP 2012 AFS gross unrealised losses The table below shows the fair value of available-for-sale debt securities that were in an unrealised loss position at 31 December and the related gross unrealised losses.
Less than 12 months More than 12 months Total Gross Gross Gross unrealised unrealised unrealised Fair value losses Fair value losses Fair value losses 2012 m m m m m m Central and local government - US 59 1 59 1 - other 1,625 2 145 12 1,770 14 Banks 398 2 3,466 507 3,864 509 Other financial institutions 248 19 7,686 1,300 7,934 1,319 Corporate 346 4 4 350 4 Total 2,676 28 11,301 1,819 13,977 1,847 Of which ABS 398 20 10,999 1,797 11,397 1,817 2011 Central and local government - other 2,878 65 778 106 3,656 171 Banks 3,924 49 5,676 789 9,600 838 Other financial institutions 472 41 6,504 2,345 6,976 2,386 Corporate 204 11 78 2 282 13 Total 7,478 166 13,036 3,242 20,514 3,408 Of which ABS 878 54 11,908 3,104 12,786 3,158 2010 Central and local government - UK 716 10 716 10 - US 74 1 163 1 237 2 - Other 4,328 6 1,738 612 6,066 618 Banks 1,655 16 6,202 770 7,857 786 Other financial institutions 2,993 73 6,972 2,553 9,965 2,626 Corporate 163 32 114 23 277 55 Total 9,929 138 15,189 3,959 25,118 4,097 Of which ABS 2,519 101 12,867 3,296 15,386 3,397 241 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 242 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Market risk Introduction 243 Governance 243 Risk measurement 243 Key principles 243 Risk appetite 244 Risk models 244 Stress testing 246 Pricing models 246 Market risk analyses 247 Trading revenues 247 Daily VaR graph 248 Trading book 248 VaR non-trading portfolios 249 VaR 249 Structured credit portfolio 250 Market risk capital 250 Minimum capital requirements 250 IRC by rating and product category 251 Securitisation positions in the trading book 251 242 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 243 RBS GROUP 2012 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Market risk Regulatory Risk Introduction Trading activities will indirectly be impacted by regulatory proposals that Market risk arises from fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency, will change market participants behaviours.
These are discussed in more credit spreads, equity prices, commodity prices and risk related factors detail in the Regulatory risk section refer to page 285.
Developments such as market volatilities.
The Group manages market risk within its specific to market risk include the Fundamental Review of the Trading trading and non-trading portfolios through a comprehensive market risk Book FRTB and the Fundamental Review of the Securitisation management framework.
This control framework includes qualitative and Treatments.
The FRTB remains at a conceptual stage and there is quantitative guidance in the form of comprehensive policy statements, currently insufficient practical detail available to provide a meaningful dealing authorities, limits based on, but not limited to, value-at-risk VaR, assessment of what may eventually be implemented.
The Basel stressed VaR SVaR, stress testing and sensitivity analyses.
Committee's review of the treatment of securitisation positions is further advanced and the Group is currently reviewing how it can participate to Governance assess the impact on trading book activities.
Business structure The primary focus of the Groups trading activities is to provide an Risk measurement extensive range of financing, risk management and investment services Key principles to its customers, including major corporations and financial institutions The Groups qualitative market risk appetite is set out in policy around the world.
The Group undertakes these activities organised within statements, which outline the governance, responsibilities and the principal business lines: money markets: rates flow trading: requirements surrounding the identification, measurement, analysis, currencies and commodities: equities: credit markets: and portfolio management and communication of market risk arising from the trading management and origination.
and non-trading investment activities of the Group.
All teams involved in the management and control of market risk are required to fully comply Financial instruments held in the Groups trading portfolios include, but with the policy statements to ensure the Group is not exposed to market are not limited to: debt securities: loans: deposits: equities: securities sale risk beyond the qualitative and quantitative risk appetite.
The control and repurchase agreements and derivative financial instruments.
framework covers the following principles: The Group undertakes transactions in financial instruments that are x Clearly defined responsibilities and authorities for the primary traded or cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures groups involved in market risk management in the Group: and options.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide margin on a x An independent market risk management process: daily basis with cash or other security at the exchange.
x Daily monitoring, analysis and reporting of market risk exposures The Group also undertakes transactions in financial instruments that are against market risk limits: traded over-the-counter rather than on a recognised exchange.
These x Clearly defined limit structure and escalation process in the event of instruments range from commoditised transactions in derivative markets, a market risk limit excess: to trades where the specific terms are tailored to meet customer requirements.
x A market risk measurement methodology that captures correlation effects and allows aggregation of market risk across risk types, In 2011, RBS Group announced plans to transfer a substantial part of its markets and business lines: business from RBS N. V. to RBS plc, in an effort to simplify the structure and reduce risk.
During 2012, a substantial part of the business was x Use of VaR as a measure of the one-day and SVaR as a measure transferred to RBS plc.
A key element of this was the Financial Services of the ten-day market risk exposure of all trading positions: Authority FSA approval of the Netherlands trading branch location into the scope of the regulatory models.
x Use of non-VaR based limits and other controls: x Use of stress testing and scenario analysis to support the market Organisation structure risk measurement and risk management process by assessing how Independent oversight and support is provided to the divisions by the portfolios and global business lines perform under extreme market Global Head of Market & Insurance Risk, assisted by the Group and conditions: divisional market risk teams.
The head of each division, assisted by a divisional market risk management team, is accountable for all market x Use of back-testing as a diagnostic tool to assess the accuracy of risks associated with its activities.
The Global Market Risk Committee the VaR model and other risk management techniques: reviews and makes recommendations concerning the market risk profile across the Group, including risk appetite, risk policy, models, x Adherence to the risks not in VaR framework to identify, quantify methodology and market risk development issues.
The committee meets and capitalise risks not captured within the VaR model: and quarterly and is chaired by the Global Head of Market & Insurance Risk.
x A product approval process that requires market risk teams to Attendees include respective divisional market risk managers and Group assess and quantify market risk associated with proposed new Market Risk.
243 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 244 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Market risk: Risk measurement continued VaR - is a technique that produces estimates of the potential change in Risk appetite the market value of a portfolio over a specified time horizon at a given The Executive Risk Forum ERF approves the quantitative market risk confidence level.
For internal risk management purposes, the Groups appetite for trading and non-trading activities.
The Global Head of Market VaR assumes a time horizon of one trading day and a confidence level of & Insurance Risk, under delegated authority from the ERF, sets and 99%.
The Group's VaR model is based on a historical simulation model, populates a limit framework, which is cascaded down through legal entity, utilising data from the previous two years.
division, business and desk level market risk limits.
The VaR model has been approved by the FSA to calculate regulatory At the Group level, the risk appetite is expressed in the form of a capital for the trading book for those legal entities under its jurisdiction.
combination of VaR, SVaR, sensitivity and stress testing limits.
These legal entities are The Royal Bank of Scotland plc: National Westminster Bank Plc: RBS Financial Products Inc: and RBS Securities A daily report summarises the Groups market risk exposures against the Inc. Regulatory VaR differs from the internal VaR as it is based on a tenagreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Head of Restructuring & day holding period.
The approval covers general market risk in interest Risk, Global Head of Market & Insurance Risk, divisional Chief Risk rate, foreign exchange, equity and specified commodity products and Officers and appropriate divisional market risk managers.
specific risk in interest rate and equity products.
Legal entities, divisions and lower levels in the business also have an The VaR model is an important market risk measurement and control appropriate market risk framework of controls and limits in place to cover tool.
It is used for determining a significant component of the market risk all material market risk exposures.
capital and, as such, it is regularly assessed.
The main approach employed to asses the ongoing model performance is back-testing, which The specific market risk metrics that are appropriate for controlling the counts the number of days when a loss as defined by the FSA exceeds positions of a desk will be more granular than the Group level limits and the corresponding daily VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence tailored to the particular division and business.
The FSA categorises a VaR model as green, amber or red.
A green model status is consistent with a good working model and is achieved for The market risk control framework has been enhanced further during models that have four or fewer back-testing exceptions in a 12-month 2012 with the implementation of SVaR and portfolio gap risk limits.
For the Groups trading book, a green model status was portfolio gap risk takes into consideration the possibility of the joint maintained throughout 2012. occurrence of losses across different gap risk products.
The Groups VaR should be interpreted in light of the limitations of the In line with the overall business strategy to reduce risk exposures, the methodology used, as follows: Groups market risk limits were adjusted down during 2012.
The majority of the Groups market risk exposure were in the Markets, International x Historical simulation VaR may not provide the best estimate of future Banking and Non-Core divisions and Group Treasury.
The Group is also market movements.
It can only provide a forecast of portfolio losses exposed to market risk through interest rate risk and foreign exchange based on events that occurred in the two-year time series.
Therefore, risk on its non-trading activities in the retail and commercial businesses.
events that are more severe than those in the historical data series These aspects are discussed in more detail in Non-traded interest rate are not represented.
risk on page 153 and Structural foreign currency exposures on page 155. x The use of a 99% confidence level does not reflect the extent of In 2012, a market risk economic capital model was developed.
It is potential losses beyond that percentile.
planned to use this model for performance measurement within Markets and to assess the risks of the group from a consolidated economic x The use of a one-day time horizon will not fully capture the profit and perspective.
The results of the model will be consolidated with other risk loss implications of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged types and reported during 2013.
The model calculates the market and within one day.
default risk in the trading book using an extended historic simulation approach with multiple liquidity horizons differentiated by portfolio and x The Group computes the VaR of trading portfolios at the close of asset class.
The results are annualised to be consistent with the other business.
Positions may change substantially during the course of Group economic capital models.
the trading day and, if so, intra-day profit and losses will be incurred.
Risk models These limitations mean that the Group cannot guarantee that losses will Risk models are developed both within divisional units and by Group not exceed the VaR.
Risk models are also subject to independent review and signoff to the same standard as pricing models.
Meetings are held with the FSA every quarter to discuss the traded market risk, including changes in models, management, back-testing results, risks not included in the VaR framework and other model performance statistics.
unaudited 244 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 245 RBS GROUP 2012 During 2012, an improved methodology was implemented for interest between similar products with different contractual terms e. g. CDS in rates, to more realistically represent the distribution of rate changes.
The portfolio impact of correlated defaults and rating enhanced model introduces a level-dependent scaling methodology for changes is assessed with reference to the resulting market value change interest rates, which removes the overestimation of rate fluctuations in of positions, which is determined using stressed recovery rates and regimes of declining rates and leads to a swifter adaptation to changing modelled credit spread changes.
The average liquidity horizon at the year circumstances in times of increasing rates.
At the point of implementation end was 4.6 months.
the impact on the trading VaR was a decrease of 3.9 million, while the interest rate VaR saw an increase of 1.4 million.
The non-trading total In 2012, the IRC model was enhanced further: i to better capture the risk and interest rate VaR decreased by 0.5 million and 1.9 million characteristics of sovereign exposure migrations and defaults: and ii to respectively.
align the recovery rates for sovereign exposures to the banking book internal ratings based approach.
SVaR - is applied to the trading portfolio and utilises data from a specific one year period of stress.
As with VaR, the technique produces estimates All price risk APR - The APR model is applied to the corporate credit of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio over a specified correlation trading portfolio, subject to certain eligibility constraints time horizon at given confidence level.
For the purposes of calculating principally that the underlying names are liquid corporate CDS regulatory SVaR, a time horizon of ten trading days is assumed and a positions.
The measure is calibrated to a 99.9% confidence level over a confidence level of 99%.
All material price risks, including defaults and credit rating changes, are within the scope of the model.
Of these, the In December 2012, the FSA confirmed the European Banking Authority most significant are credit spread risk, credit correlation risk, index basis guidelines relating to SVaR.
The FSA now requires the use of Dynamic risk, default risk, and recovery rate risk.
In addition, losses due to both SVaR, where the worst one year period of stress is determined on a daily hedging costs and hedge slippage are modelled.
The overall APR capital basis.
charge is floored at 8% of the corresponding standard rules charge for the same portfolio.
The average liquidity horizon at the year end was 12 Risks not in VaR RNIV - The RNIV framework has been developed to months.
quantify those market risks not adequately captured by VaR and SVaR methodologies.
The RNIV approach is used for market risks that fall Model validation - A model assessment is performed before a new or within the scope of VaR, but which are insufficiently captured by the changed model element is implemented, and before a change is made to model methodology, for example due to the lack of sufficient historical a market data mapping.
Depending on the results, it may be necessary to data.
These risks are therefore assessed outside the VaR model.
notify the FSA before implementation.
The form of internal validation depends on the type of model and the materiality of the change.
The Group adopts two approaches to the quantification of risks not in VaR RNIVs : In the case of VaR models, the following steps are considered.
In some cases, for example a minor change to a market data mapping, it will not x Some RNIVs are quantified using a standalone VaR approach.
For be necessary to perform all of the steps.
However, in all cases there will these RNIVs, two values are calculated: i the VaR RNIV: and ii be an independent review and validation.
x Perform accuracy testing of the valuation methods used within VaR x Some RNIVs are quantified using a stress scenario approach.
For on appropriately chosen test portfolios.
Ensure that tests capture the these RNIVs, an assessment of ten-day extreme, but plausible, effect of using external data proxies where these are used.
market moves is used in combination with position sensitivities to give a stress-type loss number - the stressed RNIV value.
x Back-test the approach using the relevant portfolio.
For each legal entity covered by the FSA VaR model waiver, all RNIVs x Back-test the approach using hypothetical portfolio s where this is are aggregated to obtain the following three measures: i Total VaR helpful for isolating the performance of specific areas of the model.
RNIV: ii Total SVaR RNIV: and iii Total stressed RNIV.
x Identify all risks not adequately captured in VaR, and ensure that In each case, no allowance is made for potential diversification in respect such risks are captured via the risks not in VaR process.
x Identify any model weaknesses or scope limitations, their effect and Incremental risk charge IRC - The IRC model aims to quantify the how they have been addressed.
impact of defaults and rating changes on the market value of bonds, credit derivatives, and other related positions held in the trading book.
It x Identify ongoing model testing designed to give early warning of is calculated over a one year horizon to a 99.9% confidence level, and market or portfolio weakness becoming significant.
therefore represents a 1-in-1,000 loss over the following year.
The modelling framework differentiates between the liquidity of different x Perform impact assessment.
Estimate the impact on total one-day underlying instruments, with a minimum liquidity horizon of three months.
and ten-day 99% VaR at the total legal entity level and the major It also captures basis risks between different products referencing the business level, and individual risk factor level one-day and ten-day same underlying credit e. g. bonds and credit default swaps CDS, and 99% VaR at the total legal entity level.
245 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 246 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Market risk: Risk measurement continued economist or by risk managers and front office as a means of assessing Additionally, Group Risk Analytics GRA assess the appropriateness of the vulnerabilities of their book.
all new or amended models prior to their introduction.
Existing approved models are re-assessed on a periodic basis to ensure they remain fit-forThe Global Market Risk Stress Testing Committee reviews and discusses purpose, for example, following significant market developments or all matters relating to market risk stress testing.
Stress test exposures are portfolio changes.
The models required to be reviewed by GRA in discussed with senior management and relevant information is reported relation to market risk include VaR, SVaR, IRC, APR and economic to the Group Risk Committee, the ERF and the Board.
The independent validation review process will consider some or Groups market risk stress testing limits are monitored and reported.
all of the following areas as appropriate: Reverse stress testing is designed to assess the plausibility of scenarios x Test and challenge the logical and conceptual soundness of the derived by stressing market risk factors until the loss reaches a given methodology: threshold.
Market Risk contributes to the firm wide, cross risk reverse stress tests.
x The assumptions underlying the model will be tested, where feasible against actual behaviour.
The validation report will judge the In addition to VaR and stress testing, the Group calculates a wide range reasonableness and stability of the assumptions and specify which of sensitivity and position risk measures, for example interest rate ladders assumptions, if any, should be routinely monitored in production: or option revaluation matrices.
These measures provide valuable additional controls, often at individual desk or strategy level.
x Compare model results with independent model replication: Pricing models x Compare outcome with results from alternative methods: Pricing models are developed and owned by the front office.
Where pricing models are used as the basis of books and records valuations, x Test parameter selection and calibration: they are subject to oversight and approval by asset level modelled product review committees.
These committees prioritise models for x Ensure that model outputs are sufficiently conservative in areas independent validation by GRA taking into consideration both the where there is significant model uncertainty: materiality of risk booked against the model and an assessment of the degree of model risk i. e. valuation uncertainty arising from choice of x Confirm applicability of tests for accuracy, and stability: recalculate: modelling assumptions.
GRA review aims to quantify model risk by and ensure that results are robust: and comparing model outputs against those of alternative independently developed models, the results of which are used by Market Risk to inform x Ensure appropriate factor sensitivity analysis has been performed risk limits and by Finance to inform model reserves.
Marking-to-market Stress testing To ensure that the risks associated with trading activity are reflected in The Group undertakes daily stress testing to identify the potential losses the financial and management statements, assets and liabilities in the in excess of VaR.
Stress testing is used to calculate a range of trading trading book are measured at their fair value.
Any profits or losses on the book exposures which result from severe and extreme market events.
revaluation of positions are recognised in the income statement on a daily Stress testing measures the impact of exceptional changes in market basis.
rates and prices on the fair value of the Groups trading and available-forsale portfolios.
The Group calculates sensitivity analysis, historical stress The fair value is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged tests and bottom-up stress testing.
in a current transaction between willing parties.
The fair values are determined following IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Sensitivity analysis measures the sensitivity of the current portfolio of Measurement guidance, which requires banks to use quoted market positions to defined market risk factor movements.
These stresses are of prices or valuation techniques models that make the maximum use of a smaller magnitude compared to historical or bottom-up stress testing observable inputs.
and are subject to the Group Market Risk limit framework.
When marking-to-market using a model, the valuation methodologies Historical stress tests calculate the changes in the portfolio valuations must be approved by all stakeholders trading, finance, market risk, that would be generated if the extreme market movements that occurred model development and model review prior to use for profit and loss and during significant historical market events were repeated.
Historical stress risk management purposes.
tests also form part of the Group Market Risk limit framework.
Traders are responsible for marking-to-market their trading book Bottom-up stress testing requires analysis of the market risk exposures positions on a daily basis.
Traders can either: by risk factors and different liquidity horizons, to identify the key risks.
Stresses for these risks are then designed following consultation with risk x directly mark a position with a price e. g. spot foreign exchange : or managers, economists and front office.
The tests may be based on an economic scenario that is translated into risk factor shocks by an x indirectly mark a position through the marking of inputs to an approved model, which will in turn generate a price.
unaudited 246 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 247 RBS GR RBS GROUP 2012 OUP 2012 Independent price verification Where practical, verification is performed to a frequency that Independent price verification is a key additional control over front office matches the availability of this independent price information.
x Compliance statements - business unit control is required to prepare Key elements of the independent price verification framework include: and maintain compliance statements that benchmark price verification procedures against the independent pricing policy.
Each x Appropriate financial controls - business unit controllers are compliance statement requires review and sign-off from the relevant responsible for ensuring that independent price verification financial controller, market risk manager and front office processes are in place covering all trading book positions held by management every six months at least.
The independent pricing verification policy requires that daily independent price verification is performed for positions For more information on independent price verification, refer to Valuation where prices model inputs are readily available on a daily basis.
For of financial instruments carried at fair value on page 393. positions where prices model inputs are available on a less regular basis, verification may occur on a frequency that is less than daily.
Market risk analyses Trading revenues The graph below shows the daily distribution of trading and related revenues for Markets for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
Key points x Both 2011 and 2012 benefited from market rallies, albeit weaker but x The average daily revenue earned by Markets trading activities in more sustained during 2012 than 2011, primarily due to the 2012 was 16 million, compared with 18 million in 2011.
The supportive actions of the Federal Reserve and European Central standard deviation of the daily revenues decreased from 20 million Bank in the third quarter of 2012.
By way of contrast, in the third to 15 million.
The number of days with negative revenue decreased quarter of 2011, heightened uncertainty in the Eurozone saw a to 34 from 45.
The most frequent daily revenue was between 5 sudden deterioration in credit markets.
Hence a wider range of million and 10 million, which occurred 36 times.
In 2011, the most results in 2011 than 2012. frequent daily revenue was between 25 million and 30 million, which occurred 31 times.
unaudited 24 2477 -35 -35 -30 -30 -25 -25 -20 -20 -15 -15 -10 -10 -5 0 -5 0 5 5 10 10 15 15 20 20 25 25 30 30 35 35 40 40 45 45 50 50 55 55 60 60 65 65 70 70 75 75 -35 -35 -30 -30 -25 -25 -20 -20 -15 -15 -10 -10 -5 -5 0 0 5 5 10 10 15 15 20 20 25 25 30 30 35 35 40 40 45 45 50 50 55 55 60 60 65 65 70 70 75 75 Number of trading days Number of trading days GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 248 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Market risk: Market risk analyses continued Daily VaR graph 150 160 140 130 140 120 120 110 100 100 90 80 80 70 60 60 50 40 40 30 20 20 10 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Interest rate CR FX Equity Commodity Total Total Interest Rate Credit Spread Currency Equity Commodity Trading book The table below analyses the VaR for the Groups trading portfolios, segregated by type of market risk exposure, and between Core, Non-Core, counterparty exposure management CEM and the Groups total trading VaR excluding CEM.
CEM manages the over-the-counter derivative counterparty credit and funding risk on behalf of Markets and Non-Core, by actively controlling risk concentrations and reducing unwanted risk exposures.
The hedging transactions CEM enters into are booked in the trading book and therefore contribute to the market risk VaR exposure of the Group.
The counterparty exposures themselves are not captured in VaR for regulatory capital.
In the interest of transparency and to more properly represent the exposure, CEM trading book exposure and total trading VaR excluding CEM are disclosed separately.
The extent of diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time.
Key points government bond auctions and syndications, combined with an x The Groups average and maximum credit spread VaR for 2012 was increase in exposure to safe haven assets in December 2012, as lower than for 2011.
This reflected the credit spread volatility the US Fiscal Cliff negotiations continued without resolution.
experienced during the financial crisis dropping out of the time series window, combined with a reduction in the asset-backed x The Non-Core VaR was significantly lower in 2012, as Non-Core securities trading inventory in Core and the sale of unencumbered continued its fide-risking strategy through the disposal of assets and asset-backed securities assets following the prior restructuring of unwinding of trades.
some monoline hedges in the Non-Core banking book.
x Since late 2011, CEM started to centrally manage the funding risk x The average and period end interest rate VaR for 2012 were higher on over-the-counter derivatives contracts, causing the VaR to be than for 2011 due to pre-hedging and positioning activity ahead of considerably higher in 2012 than 2011. unaudited 248 m m GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 249 RBS GROUP 2012 VaR non-trading portfolios In order to better represent the risk of the non-trading portfolios, the table VaR below analyses the VaR for the non-trading portfolios but excludes the The table below details VaR for the Groups non-trading portfolios, Non-Core structured credit portfolio.
These assets are shown separately excluding the structured credit portfolio and loans and receivables.
on a drawn notional and fair value basis by maturity profile and asset class.
The risk in this portfolio is managed on both a third party asset and VaR is not always the most appropriate measure of risk for assets in the RWA basis.
banking book and particularly for those in Non-Core, which will diminish over time as the asset inventory is sold down or run-off.
Also excluded from the non-trading VaR portfolios are the loans and receivable products that are managed within the credit risk management framework.
Key points x The average and period end total and credit spread VaR were lower x The average and period end interest rate VaR were lower in 2012, in 2012, due to reduced volatility in the market data time series, due to the implementation of an enhanced rates re-scaling position reductions and a decrease in the size of the collateral methodology.
The reduction in collateral was driven by the restructuring of certain Dutch residential mortgage-backed securities during the x The Non-Core period end VaR was higher in 2012 than in 2011, due first half of 2012, enabling their eligibility as European Central Bank to improvements in the time series mapping on certain Australian collateral.
This allowed the disposal of additional collateral bonds and the purchase of additional hedges.
purchased during the corresponding period in 2011.
249 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 250 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Market risk: VaR non-trading portfolios continued Structured credit portfolio The structured credit portfolio is within Non-Core.
The risk in this portfolio is not disclosed using VaR, as the Group believes this is not an appropriate tool for the banking book portfolio, which comprises illiquid debt securities.
These assets are reported on a drawn notional and fair value basis, and managed on a third party asset and risk-weighted assets basis.
The table below shows the open market risk in the structured credit portfolio.
Key point x The structured credit portfolio drawn notional and fair values declined across all asset classes from 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2012.
Key drivers were: i during the first half of 2012, the liquidation of legacy trust preferred securities and commercial real estate CDOs and subsequent sale of the underlying assets: and ii during the second half of 2012, the sale of underlying assets from CDO collateral pools and legacy conduits.
Market risk capital Minimum capital requirements The following table analyses the market risk minimum capital requirement, calculated in accordance with Basel 2.5.
2012 2011 m m Interest rate position risk requirement 254 1,107 Equity position risk requirement 1 3 Option position risk requirement 26 26 Commodity position risk requirement 2 2 Foreign currency position risk requirement 12 10 Specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions 156 250 Total standard method 451 1,398 Pillar 1 model based position risk requirement 2,959 3,725 Total position risk requirement 3,410 5,123 unaudited 250 GRA12 3f Market Risk 242 251 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:07 Page 251 RBS GROUP 2012 The principal contributors to the Pillar 1 model based position risk requirement PRR are: 2012 Average 1 Maximum 1 Minimum 1 Period end 2011 m m m m m Value-at-risk VaR 1 939 1,190 757 825 887 Stressed VaR SVaR 1,523 1,793 1,160 1,226 1,682 Incremental risk charge IRC 521 659 372 467 469 All price risk APR 149 290 12 12 297 Note: 1 The average, maximum and minimum are based on the monthly Pillar 1 model based capital requirements.
Key points x The FSA approved the inclusion of the Groups US trading x SVaR decreased during the remainder of 2012, due to the disposal subsidiary RBS Securities Inc. in the regulatory models in March of assets in Non-Core and general fide-risking in sovereign and 2012.
This resulted in the model-based charges for VaR, SVaR and agency positions in Markets.
IRC increasing at that time and the standardised interest rate PRR decreasing significantly.
x The APR decreased significantly due to the disposal of assets and unwinding of trades.
IRC by rating and product category The following table analyses the IRC by rating and product.
Internal ratings AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC Total 1 2012 m m m m m m m m Product categories Cash - ABS 59.2 0.1 0.9 58.2 Cash - regular 39.5 146.9 9.8 59.9 8.6 16.9 12.7 294.3 Derivatives - credit 0.3 14.0 4.0 30.4 28.4 5.6 2.7 51.4 Derivatives - interest rate 1.0 1.5 0.1 2.1 0.3 1.8 Other 13.8 13.8 Total 111.2 132.9 15.3 90.3 34.0 22.2 10.0 415.9 Note: 1 The figures presented are based on the spot IRC charge at 31 December 2012 and will therefore not agree with the IRC position risk requirement, as this is based on the 60 day average.
The figures presented above are in capital terms.
Securitisation positions in the trading book The following table analyses the trading book securitised exposures, by rating, subject to a market risk capital requirement.
Ratings 1 Capital AAA AA A BBB BB Below BB Total 1,2 STD PRR 3 deductions 2012 m m m m m m m % m Trading book securitisation charge 15.5 7.4 15.2 35.3 75.8 6.2 155.4 36.6 1,369.6 Notes: 1 Based on S&P ratings.
3 Percentage of total standardised position risk requirement.
251 GRA12 3g Country Risk 252 280 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:20 Page 252 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Country risk Introduction 253 External environment 253 Governance, monitoring and management 254 Country risk exposure 255 Definitions 255 Summary 256 Total eurozone 260 Eurozone periphery total 261 Eurozone periphery by country 262 Eurozone non-periphery total 273 Eurozone non-periphery by country 274 252 GRA12 3g Country Risk 252 280 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:20 Page 253 RBS GROUP 2012 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Country risk Elsewhere, Ireland continued to make progress towards targets set out in Introduction its Troika programme, notably allowing the government to resume a Country risk is the risk of material losses arising from significant countrydegree of market financing.
Talks with the European authorities on ways specific events such as sovereign events default or restructuring : to relieve the government of some of the costs of past banking sector economic events contagion of sovereign default to other parts of the support continued, resulting in a favourable restructuring of the Anglo economy, cyclical economic shock : political events transfer or Irish promissory note in early 2013, reducing related fiscal costs convertibility restrictions, expropriation or nationalisation : and conflict.
Notwithstanding these developments, Irish growth remained Such events have the potential to affect elements of the Groups credit very weak and reliant on external demand.
Portugal also made progress portfolio that are directly or indirectly linked to the country in question and in a number of areas, though had greater structural constraints to can also give rise to market, liquidity, operational and franchise riskaddress to boost longer-term growth prospects.
Towards the end of the related losses.
year, Cyprus also entered negotiations with the EU and IMF on a support programme.
The eurozone as a whole entered recession in the second External environment half of the year, although divergence within the currency union continued, Country risk, notably in the eurozone, remained elevated in 2012, with the core considerably stronger than the periphery.
particularly in the first half of the year.
Economic growth projections were lowered, predominantly for Europe, but also for a number of major Emerging markets emerging markets.
However, important first steps towards achieving Emerging markets performed better on the whole.
In developing Asia, the longer-term stabilisation in the eurozone led to some notable easing of economies of China and India both continued to slow from a strong base, crisis risks.
Growth data from major non-European economies, such as but risks remained held in check by healthy external balance sheets.
China, were more encouraging towards the end of the year.
The ability of policymakers to tackle fiscal challenges and restore confidence and Emerging countries in Europe started to be affected by very weak growth growth in both the US and Europe will be a key factor in determining the in the eurozone, with the most export-focused economies being worst hit.
However, countries that took significant action in the wake of the financial crisis to stabilise their banking sectors, saw an easing of risk.
Turkey was Eurozone risks upgraded by one rating agency to investment grade.
Eurozone risks continued to dominate, as concerns about the impact of banking sector problems on government balance sheets led to further General political instability seen in the Middle East and North Africa in capital flight from periphery countries and a rise in sovereign bond yields 2011 moderated in 2012 in most countries except Syria, although until August, particularly for Spain.
To break the feedback loop between transition to democratic rule was only partial in some cases.
Excluding banks and their sovereigns, eurozone leaders agreed at their June Bahrain, Gulf Cooperation Council countries were generally more stable, summit that the European Stability Mechanism ESM, the eurozones underpinned by high oil prices.
permanent crisis fund, could lend to banks directly once a single eurozone-wide banking regulator had been established.
They also Latin America continued to be characterised by greater stability, due to approved the provision by the ESM of significant financial support to generally healthier sovereign balance sheets.
However, growth prospects Spain to recapitalise its banks.
deteriorated because of weaker external demand, notably in the regions largest economy, Brazil.
In the second half of the year, the ESM became fully operational and the European Central Bank ECB announced a major new facility, Outright Outlook Monetary Transactions.
This facility allows secondary market purchases Overall, the outlook for 2013 remains challenging with risks likely to by the ECB of bonds issued by eurozone sovereigns that are subject to a remain elevated but divergent.
Much will depend on the success of EU European Union EU International Monetary Fund IMF support efforts to contain contagion from the sovereign crisis where downside programme.
Following these steps, sovereign bond yields fell markedly.
risks are high and on whether growth headwinds in larger advanced economies, particularly the US and Japan, persist.
Emerging market Meanwhile, in Greece, private sector claims on the government were balance sheet risks remain lower, despite structural and political restructured in early 2012, but political risks remained acute as two constraints, but it is expected that these economies will continue to be successive parliamentary elections eventually resulted in a narrow victory affected by events elsewhere through financial markets and trade for the pro-bailout New Democracy party.
As the electoral process channels.
delayed policy implementation and the recession, contrary to earlier expectations, deepened further, additional reforms became necessary and the European Commission, the IMF and the ECB known collectively as the Troika further eased Greeces targets.
unaudited 253 GRA12 3g Country Risk 252 280 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:20 Page 254 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Country risk continued exposures at low risk of redenomination.
The latter are identified through Governance, monitoring and management consideration of the relevant documentation, particularly the currency of The Groups country risk framework is set by the Executive Risk Forum exposure, governing law, court of jurisdiction, precise definition of the ERF, which has delegated authority to the Group Country Risk contract currency for euro facilities, and location of payment.
The Group Committee GCRC to manage exposures within the framework and deal also deducts offsets for provisions taken and liabilities that would be with any limit breaches, with escalation where needed to ERF.
Under this expected to redenominate at the same time.
framework, exposures to all countries are monitored.
Countries with A redenomination event would also be accompanied by increased credit material exposures are included in the Groups country risk Watchlist risk, for two reasons.
First, capital controls would likely be introduced in process to identify emerging issues and facilitate the development of the affected country, resulting in any non-redenominated assets, mitigation strategies.
Detailed portfolio reviews are undertaken on a including non-euro assets, potentially becoming harder to service.
regular basis to ensure that country portfolio compositions remain aligned Second, a sharp devaluation could imply payment difficulties for to the Groups country risk appetite in light of evolving economic and counterparties with large debts denominated in foreign currency and political developments.
counterparties that are heavily dependent on imports.
Limits on total exposure are set for individual countries based on a risk The Group's focus continues to be on reducing its asset exposures and assessment taking into account the countrys economic and political funding mismatches in the eurozone periphery countries.
During 2012, situation and outlook, as well as the Groups portfolio composition in that total asset exposures to these countries decreased by 13% to country.
Sub-limits are set on medium-term greater than one year 59.1 billion.
The estimated funding mismatch at risk of redenomination exposure since this exposure can, by nature, not be reduced as rapidly was 9.0 billion for Ireland, 4.5 billion for Spain, and 1.0 billion for Italy as short-term exposure in the event of deterioration of a countrys at 31 December 2012.
These mismatches can fluctuate due to volatility in creditworthiness.
trading book positions and changes in bond prices.
The net positions for During 2012, in addition to all emerging markets and the vulnerable Greece, Portugal and Cyprus were all minimal.
eurozone countries, the Group brought nearly all advanced countries Refer to pages 256 to 280 for discussion on the Groups exposure to under country limits.
The exceptions were the UK and related European banks, financial institutions and other sectors in a number of eurozone special territories of Guernsey, Jersey, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar and countries.
the US, given their home country status.
Credit default swaps Also in 2012, an enhanced country risk appetite framework was The Group uses credit default swap CDS contracts to service customer introduced.
The Groups risk appetite for a particular country is now activity as well as to manage counterparty and country exposure.
The guided by global risk appetite, the countrys internal rating and strategic latter is done to hedge portfolios or specific exposures.
This may give rise importance to the Group, the portfolio composition by tenors and clients, to maturity mismatches between the underlying exposure and the CDS an assessment of the potential for losses arising from a number of contract, as well as between bought and sold CDS contracts on the same possible key country risk events, and other country-specific reference entity.
CDS positions are monitored on a daily basis as part of considerations such as funding profile, risk return analysis, business regular market risk management.
The actual country limits continue to be set by GCRC or the ERF above certain benchmark levels.
The terms of the Groups CDS contracts are covered by standard International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA documentation, Further enhancements included improved divisional country risk which determines if a contract is triggered due to a credit event.
Such operating models and the implementation of a new sovereign rating events may include bankruptcy or restructuring of the reference entity or model.
a failure of the reference entity to repay its debt or interest.
Under the terms of a CDS contract, one of the regional Credit Derivatives Eurozone crisis preparedness Determinations Committees of the ISDA is empowered to decide whether A Group executive steering group is driving eurozone crisis or not a credit event has occurred.
Its agenda in 2012 included operational preparations for possible sovereign defaults and or eurozone exits.
The steering group The Group transacts CDS contracts primarily on a collateralised basis also considered initiatives to determine and reduce redenomination risk.
with investment-grade global financial institutions who are active Further actions to mitigate risks and strengthen control in the eurozone participants in the CDS market.
These transactions are subject to regular typically included taking guarantees or insurance, updating collateral margining, which usually takes the form of cash collateral.
For European agreements, and tightening certain credit pre-approval processes.
peripheral sovereigns, credit protection has been purchased from a number of major European banks, predominantly outside the country of Redenomination risk the reference entity.
In a few cases where protection was bought from The overall impact of redenomination risk on the Group is difficult to banks in the country of the reference entity, giving rise to wrong-way risk, determine with certainty, but would be shaped by: the scope and reach of this risk is mitigated through specific collateralisation and monitored on a any new legislation introduced by an exiting country: its applicability to weekly basis.
the facility documentation: and whether there are any appropriate offsets to the exposures.
For the purposes of estimating funding mismatches at risk of redenomination detailed below, the Group takes, as its starting point balance sheet exposure as defined on page 255 and excludes unaudited 254 GRA12 3g Country Risk 252 280 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:20 Page 255 RBS GROUP 2012 Country risk: Country risk exposure In addition and as a memorandum item, the mtm value of derivatives and All the data tables and related definitions in this section are audited.
repos gross of netting referred to above are disclosed.
The tables that follow show the Groups exposure by country of Balance sheet - Comprises lending, debt securities, derivatives net and incorporation of the counterparty at 31 December 2012.
Countries shown repo net exposures, as defined above.
are those where the Groups balance sheet exposure as defined in this section to counterparties incorporated in the country exceeded 1 billion Off-balance sheet - Comprises letters of credit, guarantees, other and the country had an external rating of A or below from Standard and contingent obligations and committed undrawn facilities.
Poors, Moodys or Fitch at 31 December 2012, as well as selected eurozone countries.
The exposures are stated before taking into account Credit default swaps CDSs - Under a CDS contract, the credit risk on mitigants, such as collateral with the exception of reverse repos, the reference entity is transferred from the buyer to the seller.
The fair insurance or guarantees, which may have been taken to reduce or value, or mtm value, represents the balance sheet carrying value.
The eliminate exposure to country risk events.
Exposures relating to oceanmtm value of CDSs is included within derivatives against the counterparty going vessels are not included due to their multinational nature.
of the trade, as opposed to the reference entity.
The notional is the par value of the credit protection bought or sold and is included against the Definitions reference entity of the CDS contract.
Lending - Comprises gross loans and advances to: central and local government Govt : central banks, including cash balances: other banks The column CDS notional less fair value represents the instantaneous and financial institutions FI, incorporating overdraft and other short-term increase in exposure arising from sold positions netted against the facilities: corporates, in large part loans and leases: and individuals, decrease arising from bought positions should the CDS contracts be comprising mortgages, personal loans and credit card balances.
Lending triggered by a credit event and assuming there is a zero recovery rate on includes risk elements in lending.
For a sold position, the change in exposure equals the notional less fair value amount and represents the amount the Risk elements in lending REIL - Comprises impaired loans and accruing Group would owe to its CDS counterparties.
Positive recovery rates past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are would tend to reduce the gross components increases and decreases of all loans including renegotiated for which an impairment provision has those numbers.
Accruing past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected and those Due to their bespoke nature, exposures relating to credit derivative awaiting individual assessment.
A latent provision is established for the product companies and related hedges have not been included, as they latter.
cannot be meaningfully attributed to a particular country or a reference entity.
Nth-to-default basket swaps have also been excluded as they Debt securities - Comprise securities classified as available-for-sale cannot be meaningfully attributed to a particular reference entity.
AFS, loans and receivables LAR, held-for-trading HFT and Exposures to CDPCs are disclosed on page 223. designated as at fair value through profit or loss DFV.
All debt securities other than LAR securities are carried at fair value.
LAR debt securities Government - Comprises central, regional and local government.
are carried at amortised cost less impairment.
HFT debt securities are presented as gross long positions including DFV securities and short Asset quality AQ - For the probability of default range relating to each positions per country.
Impairment losses and exchange differences internal asset quality band, refer to page 205. relating to AFS debt securities, together with interest, are recognised in the income statement.
Other changes in the fair value of AFS securities Eurozone periphery - Comprises Ireland, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece are reported within AFS reserves, which are presented gross of tax.
Derivatives net - Comprise the mark-to-market mtm value of such Other eurozone - Comprises Austria, Estonia, Finland, Malta, Slovakia contracts after the effect of legally enforceable netting agreements but and Slovenia.
before the effect of collateral.
Figures shown include the effect of counterparty netting used within the regulatory capital model.
Refer to page 218 for country analysis of equity shares.
Repos net - Comprises the mtm value of repo and reverse repo contracts after the effect of legally enforceable netting agreements and collateral.
Counterparty netting is applied within the regulatory capital model used.
Over 2012, sterling appreciated 4.4% against the US dollar and 2.6% against the euro, resulting in exposures denominated in these currencies and in other currencies linked to the same decreasing in sterling terms.
Key points x Balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposures to nearly all CDS protection bought and sold countries shown in the table declined during 2012, as the Group x The Group uses CDS contracts to service customer activity as well maintained a cautious stance and many clients reduced debt levels.
as manage counterparty and country exposure.
During 2012, The reductions were seen in all broad product categories and in all eurozone gross notional CDS contracts, bought and sold, decreased client groups.
Non-Core lending exposure declined as the strategy significantly.
This was caused by maturing contracts and by efforts for disposal progressed, particularly in Germany, Spain and Ireland.
to reduce counterparty credit exposures and risk-weighted assets Most of the Groups country risk exposure was in International mainly through derivative compression trades.
The fair value of Banking primarily lending and off-balance sheet exposure to bought and sold CDS contracts also decreased due to the reduction corporates, Markets mostly derivatives and repos with financial in gross notional CDS positions and a narrowing of CDS spreads institutions, Ulster Bank mostly lending exposure to corporates and over the year for a number of eurozone countries, including Portugal consumers in Ireland and Group Treasury largely AFS debt and Ireland.
All in all, net bought CDS protection referencing entities securities and liquidity with central banks.
in eurozone countries taken by the Group in terms of CDS notional less fair value, decreased to 6.8 billion, from 8.4 billion at 31 x Total eurozone - Balance sheet exposure declined by 27.5 billion December 2011. or 14% during 2012 to 165.8 billion, with reductions seen primarily in periphery countries but also in the Netherlands, Germany, France x Greek sovereign CDS positions were fully closed out in April 2012, and Luxembourg.
This reflected exchange rate movements, sales of as the use of the collective action clause in the Greek debt swap Greek, Spanish and Portuguese AFS bonds, write-offs, active resulted in a credit event occurring, which triggered Greek sovereign exposure management and debt reduction efforts by bank clients.
x Eurozone periphery - Balance sheet exposure decreased across all x Outside the eurozone, the Group also has net bought CDS countries to a combined 59.1 billion, a reduction of 8.8 billion or protection on most countries shown in the table.
A 0.4 billion net 13%, caused in part by reductions in AFS bonds in Spain, Italy and sold CDS position on Brazil was primarily hedging bought nth-toGreece.
Most of the Groups exposure arises from the activities of default CDS contracts with Brazilian reference entities these latter Markets, International Banking, Group Treasury and Ulster Bank contracts are not included in the reported numbers by country - refer with respect to Ireland.
Group Treasury has a portfolio of Spanish to the Definitions section on page 255. bank and financial institution securities.
International Banking provides trade finance facilities to clients across Europe, including x During 2012 the credit quality of CDS bought protection the eurozone periphery.
Balance sheet exposure to Cyprus counterparties shown in the individual country tables, deteriorated amounted to 0.3 billion at 31 December 2012, comprising mainly primarily reflecting rating model changes in the fourth quarter of the lending exposure to special purpose vehicles incorporated in Cyprus, year resulting in more conservative internal ratings refer to but with assets and cash flows largely elsewhere.
Changes to wholesale credit risk models on page 162.
There was also a downgrading of some of these counterparties during the year.
x Japan - Exposure decreased during 2012, principally in the first half of the year, reflecting a reduction in International Bankings cash For more specific analysis and commentary on the Groups exposure to management business and a change in Japanese yen clearing Ireland, Spain, Italy, Portugal and Greece, refer to pages 262 to 271.
For status from direct self-clearing membership to agency.
The Group commentary on the Groups exposure to eurozone non-periphery no longer needs to hold positions resulting in a 2.2 billion reduction countries, refer to page 280. in AFS Japanese government bonds.
x China - Lending exposure and off-balance sheet exposure to banks decreased by 0.4 billion and 0.8 billion respectively, as a result of a slowdown in economic growth, changes in local regulations and risk return considerations.
Derivatives exposure to public sector entities increased by 0.7 billion, reflecting fluctuations in short-term hedging by bank clients.
Commercial real estate plus some lending to financial institutions refer to the Ulster Bank lending amounted to 10.4 billion at 31 December 2012, down 0.5 Group Core and Non-Core section on page 190 for further details.
billion from 31 December 2011 amid continuing adverse market In addition, International Banking has lending exposure and conditions.
The commercial real estate lending exposure was nearly commitments, and Markets has derivative and repo exposure to all in UBG 7.7 billion of this in Non-Core and included REIL of financial institutions and large international clients with funding 8.0 billion which were 55% covered by provisions.
Personal x Group exposure decreased further during 2012, principally lending, x Overall lending exposure fell by 1.0 billion as a result of exchange which fell 3.3 billion as a result of fide-risking of the portfolio and rate movements, amortisation, maturities, a small amount of writecurrency movements.
offs, low new business volumes and active risk management.
Residential mortgage loans amounted to 16.9 billion at 31 Government and central bank December 2012, including REIL of 3.0 billion and loan provisions of x Exposure to the central bank fluctuates, driven by regulatory 1.5 billion.
The housing market continues to suffer from weak requirements and deposits of excess liquidity.
It was reduced as part domestic demand, with house prices that stabilised in the course of of asset and liability management.
2012 at approximately 50% below their 2007 peak.
Financial institutions Non-Core included above x Markets, International Banking and UBG account for the large x Non-Core lending exposure was 9.5 billion at 31 December 2012, majority of the Groups exposure to financial institutions, the main down 0.7 billion since 31 December 2011.
The lending portfolio categories being derivatives and repos, where exposure is affected largely consisted of exposures to commercial real estate 82%, predominantly by market movements and much of it is collateralised.
December 2012 from 1.9 billion at 31 December 2011.
The majority of this exposure was collateralised.
x Exposure to Spain is driven by corporate lending and a sizeable mortgage-backed securities covered bond portfolio.
Exposure fell x Lending to financial institutions decreased to less than 0.1 billion at further in most categories during 2012, driven by the sale of part of 31 December 2012 from 0.3 billion at 31 December 2011. the covered bond portfolio and a decline in corporate lending, as a result of steps taken to fide-risk the portfolio.
Corporate x Lending decreased by 1.5 billion and off-balance sheet exposure Government by 0.9 billion, due to reductions primarily in the commercial real x The Group has an active portfolio of Spanish government debt and estate and electricity sectors.
Commercial real estate lending CDS exposures that can result in fluctuations between long and amounted to 1.6 billion at 31 December 2012, predominantly in short positions for HFT debt securities.
The majority of REIL and loan provisions relates to commercial real estate lending and further decreased during 2012, Financial institutions reflecting disposals and restructurings.
x The Groups largest exposure was AFS debt securities mainly the covered bond portfolio of 4.8 billion at 31 December 2012, which Non-Core included above decreased by 1.6 billion during 2012, largely as a result of sales in x At 31 December 2012, Non-Core had lending exposure to Spain of the first half of the year.
The portfolio continued to perform 2.8 billion, a reduction of 1.0 billion or 26% since 31 December satisfactorily.
However, the Group is monitoring the situation closely, 2011.
Commercial real estate 63%, construction 14% and including undertaking stress analyses.
electricity 9% sectors accounted for the majority of the lending exposure.
During 2012, derivative exposure entities, banks, other financial institutions and large corporate clients.
decreased by 0.2 billion due to market movements.
Risk is Since the start of 2011, the Group has taken steps to reduce and mitigated since most facilities are fully collateralised.
Lending mitigate its risk through strategic exits where appropriate and declined by 0.1 billion to 0.4 billion.
through increased collateral requirements, in line with its evolving appetite for Italian risk.
Lending exposure to Italian counterparties x The AFS bond exposure was reduced by 0.3 billion due to sales.
was reduced by a further 1.2 billion during 2012, to 1.9 billion.
Corporate Government and central bank x Lending declined by 1.1 billion, particularly to industrials.
x The Group is an active market-maker in Italian government bonds and has an active CDS portfolio, resulting in large and fluctuating Non-Core included above gross long and short positions in HFT debt securities.
x Non-Core lending exposure was 0.9 billion at 31 December 2012, a 0.3 billion or 22% reduction since 31 December 2011, primarily due Financial institutions to a fall in exposure to investment funds and industrials.
The x The majority of the Groups exposure relates to the top five banks.
remaining lending exposure was mainly to the commercial real The Groups product offering consists largely of collateralised estate 29%, leisure 25% and electricity 16% sectors.
Exposures generally consist of local banks.
Medium-term activity has ceased with the exception of collateralised trading products.
Corporate x Exposure declined further during 2012, with continued reductions in x The largest exposure is to the land transport and logistics, electricity lending and off-balance sheet exposure, and sales of Group and telecommunications sectors, concentrated on a few large, highly Treasurys AFS bonds.
Government and central bank Non-Core included above x The Groups exposure to the Portuguese government at 31 x Non-Core lending exposure to Portugal decreased by 0.1 billion December 2012 was 102 million, comprising a very small derivative during 2012, to 0.3 billion.
The portfolio largely comprised lending exposure and a small net long debt securities position, an increase exposure to the land transport and logistics 40%, electricity 37% from the net short debt securities position at 31 December 2011. and commercial real estate 18% sectors.
The remainder of the exposure is actively managed, in line with the Groups fide-risking strategy that has been Corporate in place since early 2010.
Much of the remaining exposure is x Lending exposure fell by 0.2 billion to 0.2 billion, largely due to a collateralised or guaranteed.
The remaining Greek exposure at 31 single name write-off in the first half of 2012.
The majority of this was derivative exposure to banks itself in part collateralised.
The rest was mostly x The Groups focus is on short-term trade facilities to the domestic corporate lending including exposure to local subsidiaries of subsidiaries of international clients, increasingly supported by international companies.
Government and central bank Non-Core included above x The Group participated in the restructuring of Greek government x Non-Core lending exposure to Greece was 0.1 billion at 31 debt in March 2012, which resulted in the issuance of new bonds December 2012, a slight reduction from 31 December 2011.
The that were sold in March and April, and 0.3 billion of AFS bonds remaining lending portfolio primarily consisted of the following issued by the European Financial Stability Facility incorporated in sectors: commercial real estate 44%, construction 26% and other Luxembourg.
The Group no longer holds any AFS bonds issued by services 12%.
A small HFT position, resulting from the sovereign debt restructuring in March, has been retained to enable the Group to quote prices and stay relevant to key clients.
279 GRA12 3g Country Risk 252 280 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:20 Page 280 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Country risk: Country risk exposure continued Eurozone non-periphery Key points Financial institutions x The Group holds a major and diversified portfolio in eurozone nonx France - Lending exposure to banks increased as a result of a periphery countries with significant exposures to financial institutions transfer of bank account services for Group Treasury secured and corporates, notably in Germany, the Netherlands and France, funding transactions from in-house to an external bank, for and a sizeable liquidity portfolio with the German central bank.
Derivatives exposure to banks decreased by 1.4 billion, spread over a number of banks.
x Exposure decreased in most product categories and to most client groups during 2012, particularly in lending to corporates, contingent Corporate liabilities and commitments, as a result of currency movements and x Germany - Lending to corporate clients fell by 2.9 billion, largely as fide-risking of the portfolio.
a result of reductions in Non-Core exposure to the transport, commercial real estate, electricity and media sectors.
Government and central bank x The Group holds significant short-term surplus liquidity with central x The Netherlands - Lending to corporate clients decreased by 1.1 banks for liquidity, credit risk and capital considerations as well as billion due to reductions in the commercial real estate and due to limited alternative investment opportunities.
This exposure telecommunications sectors, with half of this reduction in the Nonalso fluctuates as part of the Groups asset and liability management.
In the third quarter of 2012 the Group transferred part of its euro payment activity from the RBS N. V. account with the Dutch central x France - Lending to corporate clients decreased by 1.3 billion due bank to the RBS plc account with the German central bank, as part to reductions in the telecommunications, commercial real estate and of strategic plans to migrate most of the RBS N. V. balance sheet, construction sectors, half of this reduction is in the Non-Core activities and exposures to RBS plc.
x Germany - Net long HFT positions in German bonds in Markets Non-Core included above increased during 2012, driven by market opportunities.
Concurrently, x Germany - Non-Core lending exposure was 2.8 billion at 31 German AFS bond positions in Group Treasury were reduced in the December 2012, down 2.6 billion since 31 December 2011.
Most of first half of the year, in line with internal liquidity management the lending was in the commercial real estate 64% and natural strategies.
x France - The Group reduced its long and short HFT positions in x The Netherlands - Non-Core lending exposure was 2.0 billion at 31 Markets throughout 2012 while reducing its net long HFT position in December 2012, down 0.5 billion since 31 December 2011.
Most of the first half of the year and increasing it again in the second half of the lending was in the commercial real estate 56% and the year, in anticipation of changes in credit spreads.
positions in Group Treasury were gradually reduced as part of general risk management and in line with internal liquidity x France - Non-Core lending exposure was 1.6 billion at 31 management strategies.
December 2012, a decline of 0.7 billion since 31 December 2011.
The lending portfolio mainly comprised public sector 30%, x Belgium - Net HFT government debt exposure increased by 0.7 commercial real estate 23% and construction 13% exposures.
billion on balance over 2012, as part of regular fluctuations in the Markets business.
AFS debt securities exposures increased by 0.1 billion and the negative AFS reserve declined by the same amount as a result of recovery in bond prices.
unaudited 280 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 281 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contents Other risks Operational risk 282 Regulatory risk 285 Conduct risk 290 Reputational risk 291 Business risk 291 Pension risk 292 281 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 282 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Other risks To confirm that the Group operates within the set risk appetite, the highOperational risk level statement is supplemented by specific tolerances for different types Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed of operational risk.
The GPF sets out how to manage risk within internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
It is an acceptable limits, which in turn enables the Group to operate within the integral and unavoidable part of the Groups business as it is inherent in overall risk appetite and the specific tolerances.
the processes it operates to provide services to customers and meet strategic objectives.
Operational risk cycle and key management tools The operational risk cycle comprises four stages: Operational risk management The objective of operational risk management is not to remove x identification of risks: operational risk altogether, but to manage it to an acceptable level, taking into account the cost of minimising the risk against the resultant reduction x assessment or measurement of the scale of risks: in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk include avoidance, transfer, acceptance and mitigation by controls.
x management or control of risks to prevent their recurrence or minimise the potential impact: and In 2012, the Group continued to make good progress in enhancing its operational risk framework and risk management capabilities.
Details of x monitoring and reporting of risks.
developments undertaken and planned are set out below along with the key processes through which the Group manages operational risk.
Although the operational risk tools encompass all stages of the risk cycle, they can be broadly categorised as follows: In 2013, through further embedding the enhanced operational risk framework and tools and improving framework linkages, operational risk Identification and assessment will be managed on a more forward-looking basis.
Risk and control assessments Risk and control assessments are used to identify and assess material Governance, structure and risk appetite operational risks and key controls across all business areas.
To provide a Governance and structure consistent categorisation of risks and controls across the Group and to Group Operational Risk is an independent function reporting to the Head support identification of risk concentrations, all risks and controls are of Restructuring & Risk.
It is responsible for the design and maintenance mapped to the Group-wide risk taxonomy and the newly developed of the operational risk policy standards.
The standards, which are incorporated in the Group Policy Framework The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed in GPF, provide the direction for delivering effective operational risk line with stated risk appetite, prioritised and documented.
Controls are management and are designed to allow the consistent identification, tested frequently to verify and validate that they remain fit for purpose assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of operational risk and operate effectively.
Risk assessments are often conducted in a workshop environment, The Operational Risk Executive Committee acts upon all operational risk bringing together subject matter experts and key stakeholders from matters, and reviews and monitors the operational risk profile across the across the division and key functions.
This approach has led to a more Group, in line with risk appetite.
It oversees, manages and monitors complete view of the risk profile and more informed decisions.
operational risk strategies and frameworks, and reviews operational risk policy.
It escalates and reports necessary items to the Group Risk During 2013, the focus will be on the continued implementation and Committee.
embedding of risk assessments across the Group.
This includes the strengthening of links between risk assessments and other elements of Operational risk appetite, policy and frameworks are reviewed regularly at the Group operational risk framework.
In addition, risk assessments will the Executive Risk Forum to satisfy oversight responsibilities and, as increasingly be utilised to identify single points of failure.
New product risk assessment process Risk appetite The Groups new product risk assessment process is designed to The Groups operational risk appetite statement is agreed by the Group identify, assess and approve the risks associated with new products prior Board.
It comprises a number of specific measures of risk, such as: to launch.
x The maximum operational risk losses the Group is prepared to Several process enhancements were made during 2012, which accept.
For 2012, this was expressed as a percentage of the strengthened the interaction between business, risk and specialist areas.
Groups estimated gross income but will transition to a more Reporting has been established and work has started to enhance the forward-looking expected loss measure during 2013 following the inventory of products provided by the Group.
development of the operational risk model: and x Aggregate loss targets at specific confidence levels.
unaudited 282 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 283 RBS GROUP 2012 Scenario analysis Management, monitoring and reporting Scenario analysis is used to assess the possible impact of extreme but Issues management plausible operational risk loss events.
It provides a forward-looking basis The objective of the operational risk issues management framework is for managing exposures beyond the Group's risk appetite.
The the adoption of a consistent approach to the identification, capture, methodology provides a structured and consistent approach to scenario classification, monitoring, closure and acceptance of operational risk scoping and measurement.
During 2012, the portfolio of scenarios was issues and associated actions across the Group.
further enhanced to increase coverage of the material risks to which the Group is exposed.
This element of the operational risk framework continues to be enhanced in areas such as analysis of common issues on an aggregated basis Scenario analysis is an important component in the operational risk across the Group to identify emerging trends and improvements to the framework, providing senior management with valuable insight into quality of data captured.
systemic risk that could significantly impact the Groups financial performance or reputation if these events were to occur.
Using its Event and loss data management forward-looking nature, senior management cross-examines various risk Event and loss data management covers the discovery, escalation, topics against a range of circumstances and assumptions, including capture, investigation, approval and closure, and reporting and analysis consideration of single points of failure.
of operational risk events and loss data.
It also provides for clear, simple, quick and consistent communication of operational risk events that meet Scenarios are run in a workshop environment, bringing business, risk and defined threshold criteria to those members of the Groups senior control experts together, thereby ensuring that risk management is management and executives who need to know of these events.
They include Group-wide themes, which are led by Group Operational Risk and allow the Group to assess the impacts of The Group has continued to focus on the timely, accurate capture of pan-divisional risks and macroeconomic stresses e. g. eurozone operational risk losses: the use of a single Group-wide repository: and the distress.
escalation of material operational risk events.
This has resulted in enhanced completeness and accuracy of the Groups internal loss data, Stress testing and transparency of operational risk events, which allows the Group to The Group further refined its approach to assessing the impact of the manage its operational risk profile more effectively.
economic cycle on its operational risk losses by specifically assessing the impact of the FSA's published Anchor II scenario, which describes a The event and loss data process will continue to evolve to keep apace series of country-specific shocks around the world on: with changing regulatory and industry standards regarding the collection of internal loss data.
x expected levels of operational risk losses: and Insurance x capital adequacy requirements for operational risk.
The Group purchases insurance to provide the business with financial protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or The impact of the FSA Anchor II scenario on the Group's operational risk contractual requirements.
Insurance is used to help manage the Groups capital, as calculated under the standardised approach, was also exposures, providing protection against financial loss once a risk has projected based on the outputs of the Groups stress-testing exercises.
Operational risk impacts are also assessed based on additional economic Monitoring and reporting stress scenarios developed internally.
Monitoring and reporting forms an integral part of all of the Groups operational risk management processes, which are designed to ensure Capital model development that risks and issues are identified, escalated and managed on a timely The Group has continued with the development of its statistical modelling basis.
Exposures for each division are reported through monthly risk and capability for operational risk based on the requirements set out under control reports, which provide detail on the risk exposures and action the Basel II advanced measurement approach.
internal and external loss data as well as scenarios and business environment and internal control factors.
The primary use of the model Enhancements made during 2012 include single-source extraction and will be to contribute to the economic capital calculation and to help test publication of operational risk data across the Group, such as operational the Groups capital adequacy requirement.
Embedding of the model risk events and losses.
This has resulted in consistent and higher quality outputs is continuing in 2013. information for the purposes of oversight, challenge and operational risk management.
283 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 284 Business Review risk and balance sheet management continued Other risks: Operational risk continued x reporting on the material risks for the business against appetite.
Control environment certification Control Environment Certification CEC is used by the Group Executive The CEC outcomes are reported at both the divisional risk and audit management to review and assess its internal control framework.
Senior committees and Group Audit Committee.
management are required to provide a twice-yearly assessment of the robustness of the Groups internal control environment including: Operational risk metrics Operational risk events net loss greater than 10,000 by event category x compliance with the Group Policy Framework and key All losses and recoveries associated with an event are reported based on divisional functional policy standards: the date of each financial impact.
A single event can have multiple losses or recoveries, which may take a period of time to crystallise.
Losses and x compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance recoveries will also have been booked during 2012 on events which Code: occurred or were identified in prior years.
x effectiveness of the risk frameworks, culture and governance structures of each division or function to help ensure the Group operates within risk appetite: and Number of events At 31 December 2012, two categories accounted for around 60% of all operational risk events: i clients, products and business practices: and ii execution, delivery and process management.
This proportion was unchanged from 31 December 2011.
2012 2011 Clients, products and business practices Execution, delivery and process management Clients, products and business practices Fraud Execution, delivery and process management Technology and infrastructure failures Fraud Other Other Value of losses At 31 December 2012, three categories continue to account for 98% of the losses, however technology and infrastructure failures have replaced fraud as one of the primary loss categories.
This reflects the value of losses and provisions associated with a major systems incident during 2012 referred to as the Group technology incident.
The majority of the increase in losses associated with the clients, products and business practices event category are the result of increased Payment Protection Insurance provisions, and new provisions in respect of Interest Rate Hedging Products and LIBOR.
2012 2011 11m 172m 13m 73m 70m 101m 921m 138m 2.4bn Clients, products and business practices Execution, delivery and process management Clients, products and business practices Execution, delivery and process management Fraud Technology and infrastructure failures Fraud Other Other A small number of operational risk events contribute a high percentage of the total losses.
This is evidenced by the fact that in 2012 only 4% of operational risk events had a value of 1 million or greater 2011 - 3% but accounted for 97% of the overall losses 2011 - 91%.
Capital The Group calculates the capital requirement for operational risk using the standardised approach.
The capital requirements are as follows: 2012 2011 m m Operational risk minimum capital requirement 3,668 3,034 unaudited 284 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 285 RBS GROUP 2012 Regulatory risk Key developments during 2012 included the following: Regulatory risk is the risk of material loss or liability, legal or regulatory Basel III sanctions, or reputational damage, arising from the failure to comply with Following publication by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in or adequately plan for changes to relevant official sector policy, laws, December 2010 of rules for the new Basel III capital and liquidity regulations, or major industry standards, in any location in which the framework, work during 2012 focused on finalising the remaining Group operates.
The Group believes that maintaining a strong regulatory elements of policy and preparing for implementation.
Highlights were: risk framework is fundamental to protecting sustainable growth, rebuilding its reputation and maintaining stakeholder confidence.
x Publication of results of the Basel III monitoring exercise at 30 June 2011 published April 2012 and at 31 December 2011 published The regulatory environment remained highly challenging during 2012, as September 2012.
The latest results which ignore the transitional policymakers and regulators continued to strengthen regulation and provisions which apply showed good progress, with an average supervision in response to the events of 2007 2008 and subsequent Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 7.7% across 102 banks with Tier 1 economic and financial stress.
This compares to an effective target of 7%.
However, individual bank shortfalls, including surcharges for The regulatory agenda, largely framed by the G20 but with many systemically important banks where applicable, still totalled 374 instances of European Union EU and national initiatives, constitutes the billion: most sweeping set of changes seen in many decades.
At 31 December 2012, the Group was managing some 105 major regulatory or legislative x The finalisation of rules for composition of capital disclosure policy initiatives.
During the year as a whole, it had also reviewed over requirements June 2012 : 320 consultations in its core markets.
In addition to these changes, many supervisory authorities also continued to intensify their ongoing level of x Proposals for monitoring indicators for intra-day liquidity scrutiny and intervention.
management July 2012 : These trends have posed multiple challenges for banking groups, x Interim rules for the capitalisation of bank exposures to central including the Group, namely: counterparties July 2012 : x tracking, analysing and engaging with policymakers on proposed x Final rules for the regulatory treatment of valuation adjustments to changes: derivative liabilities July 2012 : and x implementing change programmes to ensure compliance with new x Final rules amending the liquidity coverage ratio LCR, including requirements: revised definitions of high quality liquid assets and net cash outflows.
The LCR will now be phased in from 2015 to 2019 and it was also x revisiting strategy, business and operating models in response to re-confirmed that a stock of liquid assets would be available for use the new environment: and by banks in stress situations January 2013. x driving through cultural and other changes to promote good The Basel Committee also turned its attention increasingly to business practice and to minimise enforcement risks.
In particular, it published an initial consultation paper to launch its fundamental review of the trading book Global regulatory developments May 2012.
Here, the Committee is seeking to improve the coherence of The global agenda continues to be guided by the G20, drawing on the market risk capital requirements and to enhance the consistency of original action plan for strengthening financial stability agreed by G20 implementation across jurisdictions and convergence of requirements leaders at the November 2008 Washington summit.
Although policy across the industry.
initiation at the G20 level is drawing to an end, a substantial pipeline of policy development remains in train and the Group does not anticipate Systemic financial institutions any easing of this for some time.
During 2012, G20 countries continued With the G20-mandated target of agreeing a framework for dealing with to implement various elements of this action plan, and further endorsed it global systemically important financial institutions having been met in at the G20 leaders summit held in Los Cabos, Mexico in June 2012 and 2011, much work in 2012 was at the EU level, with discussions on the finance ministers and central bank governors meetings, most incorporating a general approach into CRD IV.
recently in Mexico City in November 2012.
Separately, and following consultation, the Basel Committee published a framework to address domestic systemically important banks in November 2012, which followed on from its methodology for identifying global systemically important banks developed in 2011.
The framework focuses on the impact that the distress or failure of banks will have on the domestic economy.
The correct calibration of linkages between the domestic and international frameworks is now critical.
unaudited 285 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 286 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Other risks: Regulatory risk continued The Commission is considering the Expert Groups recommendations Shadow banking and has said that it will formally respond by September 2013.
Member Work in this area, which broadly refers to entities and financial state views on the Expert Group's proposals, where expressed, have transactions that fall outside the scope of existing financial banking been mixed.
The UK is meanwhile pushing ahead with implementation of regulation, such as hedge funds, money market funds and structured its own ring-fencing reforms, as set out by the Independent Commission investment vehicles, intensified during 2012. on Banking.
These go further than the Expert Group's proposals.
France and Germany have also published draft legislation of their own on ringGlobally, Financial Stability Board FSB workstreams under relevant fencing, which focus mainly on separating out proprietary trading but bodies including the International Organization of Securities allowing market making activities to remain within the deposit-taking Commissions and the Basel Committee continued in five key areas: bank.
banks interactions with shadow banking entities: ways to reduce the susceptibility of money market funds to runs: the regulation of other Crisis management and banking union proposals shadow banking entities on prudential grounds: retention requirements In June 2012, the EU Commission published proposals for an EU-wide and transparency in securitisation: and the possible regulation of margins recovery and resolution regime, providing for banks and authorities to and haircuts in securities lending and repos.
The FSB issued an update maintain plans for each firm, setting out measures to set right or resolve and a further series of consultation papers on certain workshops in businesses should they face difficulties.
Authorities would receive a November 2012 and revised recommendations are expected by the G20 number of powers to intervene in banks for these purposes, including St Petersburg leaders summit in September 2013. early intervention powers ahead of problems coming to light, and a minimum set of tools to restructure or wind up a failed firm.
The European Commission began the first stage in its own regulatory process on shadow banking in March 2012, with the release of a Green Among the new tools is the power to bail in senior creditors when Paper.
A summary of responses published in September 2012 was resolving a firm, to ensure losses are spread among shareholders and broadly aligned with industry views.
creditors, without recourse to tax-payer funding.
Bailed-in creditors take a loss and become shareholders in the new entity created.
Other Other papers issued during the year covered subjects including risk data These proposals are likely to be agreed in 2013, with member states and aggregation and reporting: margin requirements for uncleared banks in compliance from 2015, and bail-in provisions from 2018. derivatives: foreign exchange settlement risk: supervision: financial Notwithstanding these developments, the euro-area crisis continued to conglomerates: and revisions to the securitisation framework.
develop and in July 2012, the President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, set out a road-map for further euro-area financial EU regulatory developments integration.
This aims to both resolve the current crisis and tackle The EU regulatory agenda in 2012 continued to focus mainly on longstanding structural problems in the single-currency zone.
prudential and market structure measures.
Retail issues also came under Fundamental to these proposals are banking and fiscal union and further increased focus.
Key highlights were as follows: economic integration.
The Presidents banking union proposal comprises: a Single Supervisory Mechanism: and mutualisation of bank losses The Liikanen Review through common deposit guarantee and resolution funding In November 2011, the EU Commissioner for Internal Market and arrangements.
The latter two elements are planned to follow agreement Services, Michel Barnier, announced the establishment of a High-Level of the recovery and resolution regime in 2013.
Expert Group to consider structural reform of EU banks and in early 2012 it was convened under the chairmanship of Erkki Liikanen, the Governor In September, the Commission published its proposal for a Single of the Bank of Finland.
The group was mandated to consider measures to Supervisory Mechanism, designating the European Central Bank ECB improve EU banks stability and efficiency.
In addition to any new as primary prudential supervisor for all euro-area banks, with opt-ins measures, it was tasked to look at ongoing structural reforms, including available for EU member states outside the euro-area.
The Council of the the UK Independent Commission on Banking and the US Volcker Rule.
EU agreed to these proposals, with the proviso that the ECB would directly supervise only larger banks and those in receipt of state aid, The Expert Groups proposals in October 2012 contained five while retaining some oversight of smaller banks that fall under the remit recommendations: a ring-fence of trading book activities where they form of national supervisors.
a significant part of a banks activity: effective recovery and resolution plans with authorities empowered to require further structural reform if The European Parliament is now considering the proposals, with that improves resolvability : specific bail-in instruments rather than a agreement expected in early 2013.
The ECB will not acquire full general bail-in power applied to existing liabilities : stricter capital supervisory authority until March 2014 and there is scope to delay this.
treatment of trading book and real estate exposures: and a number of Operational elements, such as how the ECB will be staffed, how it will corporate governance, risk management and remuneration proposals.
interact with national supervisors and how it will implement its new macro-prudential responsibilities, remain to be seen.
More detail should emerge during 2013. unaudited 286 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 287 RBS GR RBS GROUP 2012 OUP 2012 Prudential and related reforms EU retail market reforms A key focus during 2012 was work on agreeing the EUs Capital Notwithstanding the focus on prudential and market reforms in response Requirements Directive CRD following the publication of draft legislative to the financial crisis, the EU Commission during 2012 also continued to text in 2011 for the CRD IV package to implement Basel III in the EU.
work on a wide range of retail agenda initiatives.
These included: Progress of the legislation was slower than hoped and did not conclude x bank account transparency, switching and the potential for making before the Basel III start date of 1 January 2013.
Nevertheless, the basic bank accounts a legal right for EU citizens: European Banking Authority did press ahead with proposals for a number of the technical standards mandated by CRD IV, including: reporting of x the Insurance Mediation Directive II, which could have implications own funds, liquidity, leverage and large exposures: gain on sale of for packaged accounts with inbuilt insurance products: associated with future margin income in a securitisation context: credit valuation adjustment: and prudent valuation.
x multilateral interchange fees: and Other prudential initiatives have included, notably: continued work on x the Mortgage Credit Directive, which is still progressing through the developing the Solvency II framework for insurers: capital requirements legislative process and which covers areas including responsible for central counterparties: corporate governance in financial institutions: lending and pre-contract disclosure.
and supervision of financial conglomerates.
Regulatory architecture reforms Market and structural reforms The Financial Services Act to introduce the twin peaks model of Key developments included: financial regulation received Royal Assent in December 2012 and so the formal split of the FSA into the Prudential Regulation Authority and the x European Markets Infrastructure Regulation - the regulation came Financial Conduct Authority will take place on 1 April 2013 as expected.
In many areas, the European In the meantime, the FSA continued to alter its structure in anticipation of Securities and Markets Authority ESMA is yet to finalise draft the split.
The Group has been closely involved in work with trade technical standards.
Full implementation is likely to be in the third associations to respond to a number of related consultations, notably to quarter of 2013, when the final technical standards are due to be the Journey to the FCA document.
UK regulatory developments x Markets in Financial Instruments Directive - the European UK regulatory developments during 2012 continued to be extensively Parliament voted on the proposal in September 2012 but the Council determined by global and EU developments, with UK regulators working of the EU had not agreed its final position by the end of 2012.
The to implement requirements coming into force and actively participating in new Irish Presidency of the Council plans to finalise the proposals policy development at the EU and global levels.
There was less focus on before the end of its term in June 2013. prudential reviews issued by UK authorities in 2012 but nevertheless a number of papers were published, including consultations on macrox Financial Transaction Tax - the EU Commission has previously prudential tools and large exposures.
In addition, there were a number of published proposals, which would see trades in bonds and shares other developments specific to the UK.
taxed at 0.1% and complex derivatives taxed at 0.01%.
While the original EU-wide proposal was rejected due to opposition from The future of banking several member states, including the UK, a subset of eleven EU The Group has actively engaged with, and contributed to, a number of member states has agreed to proceed via the Enhanced inquiries regarding the future of banking.
These included the Cooperation Mechanism.
The Commission set out detailed Governments White Paper on the implementation of the Independent proposals for this in February 2013.
Commission on Banking recommendations, a Parliamentary inquiry into banking standards and various inquiries in Europe as well as the UK x Other initiatives - these have included proposals to revise the Data looking more specifically at LIBOR and other benchmarks.
The Group is Protection Directive, further changes to the market abuse regime represented on, and is working closely with, the British Bankers and prospectus requirements, further legislative developments Association Taskforce on Banking Standards, and the Group have impacting credit rating agencies and changes to depositor and specifically welcomed the developing role of the Chartered Banker: investor protection.
In addition, work continued on the finalisation of recovery and resolution planning frameworks.
28 2877 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 288 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Other risks: Regulatory risk continued US regulatory developments Retail conduct issues In the US, activity continued to be dominated by rulemaking following the In addition to EU retail initiatives, the UK authorities continued to pursue 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.
These included initiatives relating to Universal Credit, a review into the personal current account market and Key final rules were issued on a range of issues, including prudential continuing work on the Retail Distribution Review ahead of its standards for systemically important financial institutions, removal of implementation on 31 December 2012.
Work also continues on the certain references to credit rating agencies, Basel 2.5 market risk Mortgage Market Review, Packaged Accounts and Simple Financial standards and final definitions of swap dealers, major swap participants Products.
Preparation for the new Financial Conduct Authority FCA and swaps.
Requirements for the registration of entities as swap dealers stepped up, including papers on its powers, regulatory approach and the took effect from 12 October 2012, with registration commencing from 31 desire for transparency in areas such as product intervention and December 2012 once firms reach certain activity thresholds.
RBS plc was publication of Ombudsman decisions.
The Group expects significant one of 65 global entities which registered with effect from 31 December implementation and ongoing costs to arise from changes to 2012. documentation, structure and processes as well as increased regulatory fees.
Proposed rules issued in December 2012 included important changes to the Federal Reserve Boards approach to supervisory and prudential Furthermore, the Government proposed a transfer of consumer credit requirements for foreign banking organizations FBOs.
These proposals regulation from the Office of Fair Trading to the FCA and it may also would require the Group and other FBOs to establish a single USreplace current Consumer Credit Act legislation with an FCA rulebook, incorporated intermediate holding company for all the Groups US changing rules in the process.
subsidiaries although not the US branches of RBS plc or RBS N. V..
Enhanced prudential standards would also be required, including for the Supervisory developments US branches.
In line with other regulatory authorities, the FSAs supervisory scrutiny has continued to intensify in response to the financial crisis and ongoing Other proposals included Basel III capital and leverage standards and market stresses.
disclosures and other rules relating to mortgages.
The Volcker Rule, which restricts proprietary trading and investments in private Front-end supervisory resources have been increased and existing tools equity hedge funds, was not finalised by its effective date of 21 July 2012 have been used more frequently and robustly evidenced, for instance, in but in April 2012 the Federal Reserve Board issued an interpretation terms of the heightened number of information requests, the increased which provided some guidance to the effect that banks should deployment by the FSA of skilled person reports as well as the increased demonstrate their good faith planning efforts in the two-year fines charged against the industry.
Across the industry, fines for 2012 conformance period to July 2014. totalled 311.6 million, compared with 66.1 million in 2011, and 5.3 million as the financial crisis began in 2007.
Regulatory risk management The Group manages its regulatory risk through a regulatory affairs In addition, the FSA moved to a twin peaks organisational structure in framework covering over 120 different regulatory bodies and central April 2012, with the creation of new conduct and prudential business units banks, wherever the Group operates.
This framework is managed by the which form separate teams supervising systemically important firms from Groups Regulatory Affairs function and includes: the tracking and a conduct and prudential perspective.
The FSA has continued to develop management of regulatory developments and regulatory relationship new supervisory approaches to align to the new regulatory structure.
The management, together with ownership of the connected regulatory risk prudential framework includes the Core Prudential Programme for those policies: assurance and monitoring: and training and awareness.
major financial institutions it oversees, which includes in-depth rolling thematic assessments on governance, business models, risk Against the backdrop of intensified regulatory pressure, Group management, capital and liquidity.
The conduct framework includes a Regulatory Affairs has managed the increased levels of scrutiny and greater focus on business models and strategic analysis.
legislation by increasing the capacity of its team, as well as improving and refining its operating model, tools, systems and processes.
unaudited 288 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 289 RBS GROUP 2012 Management of regulatory change Quarterly reporting to the Group Audit Committee captures all material The early identification and effective management of changes in regulatory reviews and investigations and upstream regulatory legislative, regulatory and other requirements that may impact the Group developments worldwide, as well as tracking the status and trends in key is critical to the successful mitigation of prudential and conduct risk.
Group Regulatory Affairs maintains a well-established policy and Key regulatory policies - Group Relationships with Regulators and supporting processes for the identification and management of such Political, Legislative and Regulatory Environment, are kept under annual changes across the Group.
Group Board and Executive Committee review.
Each incorporates a new risk appetite statement, relevant oversight is supported by a Prudential Regulatory Developments benchmarking activity against the Group's peer banks and, for the latter, Executive Steering Group, which was formed in early 2010 to provide a an end-to-end review and mapping of the upstream risk management specific focus on a range of key regulatory changes augmented by more process.
specialised groups which cover capital, liquidity, prudential and wholesale market and retail conduct issues.
In addition, there is a divisional Heads Recovery and resolution planning of Regulatory Developments forum and an RBS Americas regional forum.
As advocates of effective recovery and resolution planning, the Group continues to work towards the implementation of effective plans.
In order Reporting and internal communications activity expanded in 2012 in to be able to deal effectively with any future severe stress events, the response to the growing regulatory change agenda.
This included: Group has developed a range of recovery options in the form of a detailed recovery plan.
x monthly reporting of key developments to the Group Risk Committee: Individual country regulators are developing and implementing their rules x substantial enhancements to the suite of tools used to monitor and according to their own timescales.
This emphasises the need for react to regulatory developments: and consistency of approach, both by the regulatory bodies and internally within the Group, to ensure effective management of financial stability x increased communications, such as staff seminars, publication of across jurisdictions, and to avoid duplication and inefficiency for crossadditional information such as house views on key issues on internal border banks.
The Group has worked with trade associations to provide websites and the weekly Regulatory Affairs Flash Report, circulated feedback on the FSBs consultative document on operationalising widely across the Group, which captures key regulatory recovery and resolution planning, published in November 2012. developments and relationship topics.
The Group intends to continue its activities aimed at producing robust Regulatory relationship management and effective plans and to proactively influence policy makers regarding The Regulatory Relations Forum, chaired by Group Regulatory Affairs, the most practical approach to implementing the regulations.
It will also meets fortnightly and now has global coverage with representatives from be important to consider how individual regulations might be implemented all divisions and regions.
It facilitates the sharing of key regulatory in a manner that takes advantage of any potential synergies and avoids engagements.
The potential overlaps between recovery and resolution planning and the proposals arising from the Independent Commission on Banking, the US and the EU will provide an area of focus in this regard.
289 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 290 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Other risks continued x Establishing effective leadership and a supporting governance Conduct risk framework, with the participation of all divisions, to oversee the Conduct risk is the risk that the conduct of the Group and its staff towards Groups conduct agenda, notably the new Conduct Risk Committee: its customers, or within the markets in which it operates, leads to and reputational damage and or financial loss by breaching regulatory rules or laws, or failing to meet customers or regulators expectations of the x Completion by the separate AML Change Programme of its GroupGroup.
Activities through which conduct risk may arise include: personal wide gap analysis and benchmarking against enhanced policies, account dealing: privacy and data protection: conflicts of interest: money including recording identified issues, establishing a new AML laundering: and bribery and corruption.
organisational reporting and accountability hierarchy, initiating comprehensive and continuing tailored staff training: and Effective conduct risk management is not only a commercial imperative establishing a global AML assurance programme.
Customers, clients and counterparties demand it as a precursor to building trust.
It also reflects the changing regulatory Training and awareness environment in the UK, with the establishment of the Financial Services Maintaining compliance with existing rules and regulations requires Conduct Business Unit forerunner to the Financial Conduct Authority, continued investment in professional training, as well as maintaining risk and the increasing focus of overseas regulators on conduct risk.
During 2012, the Group continued to focus on strengthening the capabilities of its compliance functions, at both Group and divisional The Groups compliance functions are responsible for monitoring the level.
In addition, it facilitated training on conduct risk through Executive management of conduct risk, including anti-money laundering AML : education, including master classes and workshops, and computer-based sanctions and terrorist financing: and anti-bribery and corruption.
In doing Group Policy Learning modules.
Each module addresses the specific so, they design, implement and maintain an effective management regulatory content of relevant Group Policy Standards.
framework to enable consistent identification, assessment, monitoring and reporting of conduct risk.
A comprehensive and progressive training programme supports the professional development of the Groups compliance teams.
All members Policy design and implementation of these teams are engaged in compliance eLearning, including a Placing conduct risk at the centre of the Groups philosophy promotes a mandatory essentials course, and RBS Risk Academy, through which all customer-oriented culture that informs and challenges business strategy, staff are required to complete foundation courses in other risk disciplines, delivers fair outcomes and promotes behaviours consistent with such as operational risk, market risk and retail credit risk.
Formal training regulatory and legal standards across its retail and wholesale markets.
is supplemented by regulatory familiarisation, designed to share knowledge and support both personal development and technical training The Group has established a defined and measurable appetite for across the Groups wider risk community.
conduct risk to ensure commercial decisions take into account any conduct risk implications.
During 2012, the foundations of the Groups Assurance and monitoring conduct risk framework were delivered.
Key milestones were: Assurance and monitoring activities are essential to ensure that the Group can: demonstrate compliance with existing rules and regulations: x Agreeing and establishing the Groups conduct risk policies under assess whether it is managing its conduct risks appropriately: and four pillars: employee conduct: corporate conduct: market conduct: determine whether key controls are fit for purpose and effective.
and conduct towards the Groups customers.
Each is designed to provide high-level direction to the Group and is supported by the During 2012, as well as providing thematic process reviews and Groups Code of Conduct: assurance over specific compliance topics, the Group Compliance assurance teams, working with its divisional counterparts, validated the x Launching a phased roll-out of these policies, in order of materiality closure of issues it identified during the 2011 programme of Group-wide and scheduled to complete in June 2013: assurance reviews, and identified common issues between divisions.
x Developing and delivering awareness initiatives and targeted conduct risk training for each policy, aligned to the phased roll-out, to assist businesses and executives in embedding the understanding of conduct risk and provide the necessary clarity for staff on their conduct risk requirements: unaudited 290 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 291 RBS GROUP 2012 Reputational risk For credit risk specific information on ESE risk policies, refer to Credit Reputational risk is the risk of brand damage and or financial loss due to risk management framework on page 160. a failure to meet stakeholders expectations of the Groups conduct and performance.
The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for managing the Groups reputation, though all parts of the Group have responsibility for any Stakeholders include customers, investors, rating agencies, employees, reputational impact arising from their operations.
The Boards oversight of suppliers, government, politicians, regulators, special interest groups, reputational issues is supported by executive risk committees including a consumer groups, media and the general public.
Brand damage can be new Conduct Risk Committee and by the Group Sustainability detrimental to the business in a number of ways, including an inability to Committee.
Emerging reputational issues are pro-actively identified and build or sustain business relationships with customers, low staff morale, assessed by a dedicated working group, and escalated through the regulatory censure or reduced access to funding sources.
appropriate governance channels where necessary.
One of the most fundamental stakeholder expectations is that a bank is Business risk financially prudent, safe and sound.
The Group has made significant Business risk is the risk that the Group suffers losses as a result of progress in meeting this expectation through the execution of its Strategic adverse variance in its revenues and or costs relative to its business plan Plan in restructuring its balance sheet and improving its capital and and strategy.
Such variance may be caused by internal factors such as funding position.
Major reforms have also been made to strengthen its volatility in pricing, sales volumes and input costs and or by external risk identification, evaluation and management processes.
Further work factors such as the Groups exposure to macroeconomic, regulatory and remains, but the Group is now in a much stronger financial position to industry risks.
face challenges and uncertainties in its economic and operating environment.
Business risk is impacted by other risks the Group faces that may contribute to the adverse changes in the Group's revenues and or costs, Restoring the reputation of the Group and the wider banking sector is were these risks to crystallise.
Examples of such risks include funding built upon the role of banks as good companies that perform well for their risk through volatility in cost of funding, interest rate risk in the banking owners, regulators, employees and communities and, above all else, book, operational risk, conduct risk and reputational risk.
The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to business risk, subject to its The Group has put the focus on serving customers well at the heart of its wider strategic objectives.
Business risk is identified, measured and strategic objectives that, combined with a safe and sound bank, will build managed through the Groups planning cycles and performance a culture and reputation in line with our stakeholder expectations.
Expected profiles for revenues and costs are are still legacy issues to work through, but dealing with them in an open determined, on a bottom-up basis, through plans reflecting expectations and direct manner is a necessary part of the ability to move forward.
of the external environment and the Groups strategic priorities.
These profiles are tested against a range of stress scenarios and factors to The Groups reputational risk management framework is aligned with its identify the key risk drivers behind any potential volatility, along with strategic objectives and its risk appetite goal of maintaining stakeholder management actions to address and manage them.
It is designed to embed, at different points of decision-making processes, a series of reputational filters and controls that examine The Group operates a rolling forecast process which identifies projected products, services and activities through the lenses of sustainability, changes in, or risks to operating profit and ensures appropriate actions transparency and fairness.
This approach recognises that reputational risk can arise across a range The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for the impact of any of actions taken or not taken by the Group, as well as its wider conduct, volatility in revenues and costs on the Groups performance.
Therefore, it is aligned with the management of a risk is incorporated within the Groups risk appetite target for earnings range of risk types that have a high reputational sensitivity.
volatility, with an assessment of volatility in revenues and costs a key component in determining whether the Group and its underlying The Group Board risk report contains a top slice view of key embedded businesses are within risk appetite.
risks, including a reputational risk impact assessment of each key risk.
In addition, the divisions report to their own committees and Boards on The management of business risk lies primarily with divisions, with relevant barometers of reputational risk and actions to manage oversight at the Group level led by Finance.
Divisions are responsible for reputational events according to the source.
delivery of their business plans and management of such factors as pricing, sales volumes, marketing spend and other factors that can For example, an Environmental, Social and Ethical ESE risk introduce volatility into earnings.
management function assesses the ESE risks associated with business engagements and business divisions, while the Group Policy Framework includes a range of policies relating to conduct and reputational matters.
unaudited 291 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 292 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Other risks continued Reporting and monitoring Pension risk The Group maintains an independent view of risk from a sponsor The Group is exposed to risk from its defined benefit pension schemes to perspective within its pension funds.
It achieves this through regular the extent that the assets of the schemes do not fully match the timing pension risk reporting and monitoring to the Group Board, Group and amount of the schemes liabilities.
Pension scheme liabilities vary Executive Committee and Group Board Risk Committee on the material with changes in long-term interest rates and inflation in particular, as well pension schemes that the Group has an obligation to support.
as pensionable salaries, the longevity of scheme members and changes in legislation.
The Group is exposed to the risk that the market value of Stress testing and modelling the schemes assets, together with future returns and any additional Throughout 2012, various pension risk stress testing initiatives were future contributions could be considered insufficient to meet the liabilities undertaken, focused both on internally defined scenarios and on as they fall due.
In such circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or scenarios to meet integrated FSA stress testing requirements.
On an may choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes or be annual basis, the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is also required to hold additional capital to mitigate such risk.
This entails assessing changes in pension asset and liability values over a 12-month horizon under various stresses and scenarios.
The RBS Group Pension Fund Main scheme is the largest of the schemes and the main source of pension risk.
The Main scheme Governance operates under a trust deed under which the corporate trustee, RBS A key component of the pension risk framework is the Pension Risk Pension Trustee Limited, is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Royal Bank Committee.
This committee also serves as a formal link between the of Scotland plc.
The trustee board comprises six directors selected by the Group and the Investment Executive, which acts on behalf of the trustee Group and four directors nominated by members.
of the Groups largest pension schemes, on risk management, asset strategy and financing issues and has facilitated an agreement between The trustee is solely responsible for the investment of the Main schemes the two on mechanisms for reducing risk within the RBS Group Pension assets which are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Significant changes to asset strategy are discussed with the Groups Pension Risk Committee, which was established in 2011.
The Group and As part of the continuing development of the pension risk management the trustee must also agree on the Main schemes funding plan.
framework within the Group, key achievements in 2012 focused on developing an improved pension risk reporting, monitoring, modelling and In October 2006, the Main scheme was closed to new employees.
In stress testing capability for the Group.
The focus for 2013 will revolve November 2009, the Group confirmed that it was making changes to the around extending and embedding these improvements across the Group.
Main scheme and a number of other defined benefit schemes including the introduction of a limit of 2% per annum or the annual change in the Main scheme Consumer Price Index, if lower to the amount of any salary increase that The most recent funding valuation, at 31 March 2010, was agreed during will count for pensionable purposes.
It showed that the value of liabilities exceeded the value of assets confirmed that it was increasing the charge made through its flexible by 3.5 billion at 31 March 2010, a ratio of assets to liabilities of 84%.
In benefits programme for membership of the Main scheme by 5% of order to eliminate this deficit, the Group agreed to pay additional salaries, with employees having the alternative of accepting an increase contributions each year over the period 2011 to 2018.
These in their Normal Pension Age from 60 to 65 in respect of service from contributions started at 375 million per annum in 2011, increasing to October 2012 at no additional cost.
400 million per annum in 2013 and from 2016 onwards will be further increased in line with price inflation.
Further details are provided in Note 4 Risk appetite and investment policy are agreed by the trustee with of the consolidated accounts.
The next funding valuation is due at 31 quantitative and qualitative input from the scheme actuaries and March 2013. investment advisers.
The Investment Executive, which acts on behalf of the trustee of the Groups largest pension schemes, also consults with The assets of the Main scheme, which represent 85% of Group pension the Group to obtain its view on the appropriate level of risk within the plan assets at 31 December 2012, are invested in a diversified portfolio of pension fund.
quoted and private equity, government and corporate fixed interest and index-linked bonds, and other assets including property and hedge funds.
Risk management framework The trustee has taken measures to partially mitigate inflation and interest The Group manages the risk it faces as a sponsor of its defined benefit rate risks both by investing in suitable physical assets and by entering pension schemes using a pension risk management framework that into inflation and interest rate swaps.
The Main scheme also uses encompasses risk reporting and monitoring, stress testing, modelling and derivatives within its portfolio to manage the allocation to asset classes an associated governance structure that helps ensure the Group is able and to manage risk within asset classes.
to fulfil its obligation to support the defined benefit pension schemes to which it has exposure.
unaudited 292 GRA12 3h Other Risk 281 293 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:23 Page 293 RBS GROUP 2012 The table below shows the sensitivity of the Main schemes assets and liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee Benefits to changes in interest rates and equity values at the year end, taking account of the current asset allocation and hedging arrangements.
Change Change Increase in net in value in value of pension of assets liabilities obligations m m m At 31 December 2012 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 76 255 179 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 578 995 417 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 71 1,261 1,190 Fall in equity values of 10% 862 862 At 31 December 2011 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 106 200 94 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 557 911 354 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 104 1,118 1,014 Fall in equity values of 10% 935 935 At 31 December 2010 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 67 193 126 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 355 799 444 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 98 1,005 907 Fall in equity values of 10% 1,083 1,083 293
