ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 8 ESSENTIAL READING Our customers Successful companies put their customers first.
Protection Insurance when sometimes we Executive Committee have made it clear If they do not serve customers well they have should not have done that.
We have been fined that customers come first but actions are no purpose.
Without satisfied customers there 381 million in connection with inappropriate more powerful.
is no return for shareholders, no jobs for conduct relating to the setting of the LIBOR employees, no sales for suppliers and no taxes benchmark interest rate.
In Business & Commercial, Working with You to support public services.
is our commitment that all of our relationship In rebuilding RBS, we want to make it safe and managers will spend time working in Most of us at RBS get up every day with to serve customers well.
Part of making RBS customers businesses.
Chris Sullivan, Chief the aim of serving our customers well.
safe involves putting in place the systems and Executive of Corporate Banking, helped lead controls that would have helped to stop many the way.
But we know that for all of the good work we of the errors of the past.
That job is well have done there are just too many cases in underway, although we are not complacent.
UK Retail aspires to be the UKs most helpful the past when we could have done better, bank.
Feedback from customers, including when some of our people acted in their But better systems and controls are only part their complaints, gives our leaders real insights own interests or with a misplaced sense of of the solution.
All of our people need to know into what works for customers and what what was best for customers.
that, as most of them want to, our focus must doesnt.
But there is no substitute for direct be on serving customers well.
Back to the Frontline takes senior Failing to act in the right way is not just doing that?
people from across RBS, not just UK Retail, dishonourable or unethical.
and puts them in branches and call centres, We have had to set aside 1.1 billion in 2012 to It starts by setting the right example from the meeting customers and working shoulder to recompense people to whom we sold Payment top.
Words are important our Board and shoulder with colleagues.
08 ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 9 RBS GROUP 2012 Les Matheson, one of our Managing Directors, We need to reinforce these messages by We try to choose carefully who joins us, tell was a pioneer for the programme, working as a training and developing our people so that they them what we expect and train them to do Banking Hall Coordinator in our branch on can do their best for customers.
We also need to give them the correct Edinburghs Princes Street.
RBS has led the industry in reforming In UK Retail, we are training Customer Service how we reward people, better aligning that with Next, we need to be sure our people Officers and Customer Contact people using the interests of our stakeholders.
Now we have understand what putting customers courses accredited by the Chartered Banker gone further.
In UK Retail, we have changed first means.
That will give our people the how we reward people, putting more emphasis knowledge, skills and confidence to help on customer service and feedback.
During 2012, Coutts developed its Crown customers.
It reflects Coutts values of striving Becoming a really good bank starts and ends for excellence and operating to the highest Across Business & Commercial Banking with the customer.
Every one of us at RBS has possible standards so that it earns clients trust over 90% of Relationship Managers RMs an impact one way or another on how we serve and loyalty.
Coutts also expects its Private have successfully completed the Chartered customers.
We need to become a company Bankers to have a passion for client service.
Banker Institutes comprehensive Accreditation that has a simple, overriding determination programme.
This is part of our commitment to serve customers well.
This must be our Our new UK Retail Chief Executive, Ross to put properly trained bankers back on the obsession.
If we do this, it will become our McEwan, has said that his business is going High Street.
It means our RMs are: visible point of differentiation.
It will define the to obsess about the customer experience, better equipped to respond to customers way we think, how we work together and how delivering a consistently high level of service.
business needs and opportunities we make the most of our efforts.
Doing the delivering their business and sector right thing for customers also means ensuring On their first day in the job, new starts in expertise: and we are a positive part of the fabric of our Corporate Banking Division hear from confidently providing the right solutions communities because we know that when Chris Sullivan.
He tells them unequivocally at the right time sharing in SME they succeed, so do we.
that, our entire focus has to be on adding customers ambitions.
