Sustainability Contents Governance 34 Stakeholder engagement 34 Sustainability policy development 34 Sustainable Business Principles 35 33 ARSFS12 SUSTAINABILITY AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 08:10 Page 2 Sustainability We want to build a good company and a good bank.
Sustainability is central to achieving this goal and to making sure that the misconduct of the past is not repeated.
Governance The GSC took part in three stakeholder assessment of a company's commitment, Sustainability at RBS is built on a robust sessions in 2012 on our themes of: capacity and track record in managing ESE governance framework that provides clarity Citizenship and environment: risks.
We assessed our clients and transactions around the development of our strategic Supporting enterprise: and against the relevant ESE risk criteria and found sustainability objectives.
The Group Sustainability Employee engagement.
that our risk management systems are in good Committee GSC is a Group Board Committee, health.
A web-based training tool on our ESE chaired by our Senior Independent Director, WWF, the Tax Justice Network, Transparency policies was launched in 2012.
It consists of independent International, Big Issue Invest, the was compulsory for all staff working in the non-executive directors and all key business Confederation of British Industry and Unite relevant divisions and can also be accessed by areas are represented at Committee meetings are just a few of the groups that attended.
all RBS Group staff to ensure they understand and the Group Chairman is also invited to These sessions are an open forum for the Groups ESE policies.
The GSC has overseen some organisations to present the issues they progressive developments within the company.
most care about to the senior people from Our policy making also incorporates a number In 2012, the GSC focused on reviewing the RBS who sit on the GSC.
We do not set the of voluntary global standards.
We are Groups overall sustainability strategy, values agenda.
Others do that and we go out of our members of the Equator Principles and follow and policies and aligning the Groups way to involve people who are highly and its environmental and social impact approach to ethical, social and environmental constructively critical of RBS.
We will hold more assessment criteria in our Project Finance issues.
In 2013, the scope will widen to include of these sessions as a clear illustration of our lending.
We are also members of the UN sustainability and reputational issues related to commitment to our openness to stakeholders.
Global Compact UNGC which brings customer and citizenship activities: oversight of companies together with UN agencies, labour the delivery of the Group purpose, vision and Sustainability policy development organisations and civil society to support values cultural and behavioural change: and Addressing risks arising from Environmental, human rights, labour rights, the environment oversight of the sustainability aspects of the Social and Ethical ESE issues is an integral and anti-corruption.
We adhere to the ten people agenda.
The renewed GSC will also be part of meeting our commitment to becoming UNGC Principles and report against these responsible for overseeing and challenging a more responsible business.
Over the last two each year.
how management is addressing sustainability years we have updated and improved our and reputational issues relating to all policy framework.
We increased the A full sustainability update will be provided stakeholder groups.
For more information on transparency and disclosure of our business in our 2012 Sustainability Report, published the GSC or sustainability visit risk appetite and developed ESE policies for in April 2013. rbs.
four sensitive sectors: defence, oil and gas, mining and metals, and forestry.
These policies Stakeholder engagement have been fully implemented and follow a clear Balancing the needs of stakeholders means governance structure and decision making understanding the views of all those who have process involving divisional Reputational Risk an interest in our business.
As an international forums throughout the business.
New policies company we have many stakeholders and for the Power Generation and Gambling we engage with them in a variety of ways.
sectors are currently being implemented, with These discussions inform decision making further sector-specific policies also being across the Group.
ESE reviews involve an 34 RBS GROUP 2012 Sustainable Business Principles Our Sustainable Business Principles set out sixteen separate commitments that underline our commitment to operating responsibly.
They are a recognition that balancing the needs of all our stakeholders is the best way to deliver sustainable commercial success.
The following table sets out some of the work we are doing to meet those commitments: Principles Measure of progress in 2012 Secure Maintaining our financial health whilst meeting our Reportable major injuries decreased by 57% responsibilities to customers, employees and suppliers 22% reduction in fraud losses in 2012 against a corresponding 1% increase Keeping our customers and employees data and in fraud cases, compared with 2011 assets safe Eight million customers have downloaded our free online anti-fraud software Protecting against fraud and corruption Over 95% of employees have received Anti-Money Laundering training Supportive Meeting our customers needs 3,700 UK business customers facing financial difficulty were returned to Supporting sustainable and inclusive economic growth mainstream banking Helping customers in financial difficulty 3 million has been made available to organisations that help young people and women looking to start their own business 90% UK business customer Relationship Managers have been accredited to help provide customers with further business expertise We lent 2.7 billion to over 20,000 first time buyers in the UK Open Consulting with and listening to our stakeholders Our Group Sustainability Committee met with 14 different advocacy Showing transparency in the way we run our business groups to discuss the issues that matter most to them Publicly communicating our efforts to be responsible We continue to be open and transparent in our reporting.
The Our financing of and sustainable the energy sector reports have provided industry-leading analysis since 2009 The leadership of RBS has been pro-active in engaging with the media and our stakeholders to explain the role of RBS in society and how we are changing We have increased the number of visitors to the rbs.
com website by 50% A Responsible Citizen Working within both the letter and spirit of legislation We are longstanding members and contributors to the development of the and abiding by relevant codes of practice and Equator Principles and UN Global Compact voluntary standards We supported over 41,000 members of staff to take time off to support the Supporting the communities we work in communities in which we live and work Respecting human rights throughout our sphere We have looked at ESE risk issues across a range of sectors and developed of influence ESE appetite position staements for six of the more sensitive sectors Upholding environmental responsibility within the Bank, Our total scope 1 emissions were 66,586 and scope 2 emissions were 497,762 and through our customers and suppliers tonnes COe from Q4 2011 to Q3 2012, a decrease of 6% and 15% respectively compared with 2011 A Good Employer Providing our people with the tools and support to do In 2012, RBS was included in the Working Families top 10 Employers for their jobs effectively and develop their skills quality of work-life balance Valuing and promoting diversity in all areas of We continue to promote diversity through internal employee networks recruitment and employment and the number of female executives and senior managers have both Rewarding our people fairly for their work increased by 1% We have reformed our remuneration policies to reflect a more appropriate approach to pay.
Since 2009, the investment banking bonus pool has reduced by 70% 35
