GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 499 RBS GROUP 2012 Economic and monetary environment There was encouraging news on the job market, where unemployment It has been noted before that when economies are emerging from had fallen to 7.8% in December, and the housing market, where prices recessions rooted in high levels of debt and stresses in the financial and construction activity started to rise.
system, growth is slower than in the typical recovery.
That was the experience again in 2012 in the major markets in which the Group However, concerned that the recovery remained too slow to return operates.
unemployment to rates consistent with its mandate to foster maximum employment, the Federal Open Market Committee changed policy in two In the UK, growth weakened.
Total economic activity, as measured by ways.
In September it agreed to increase monetary accommodation by gross domestic product GDP, was flat compared with growth of 0.9% in purchasing mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per 2011.
At the start of the year, expectations had been more positive, the month.
Second, it announced in December it anticipates the Fed Funds consensus forecast for growth having been 0.5%.
Yet the year ended rate remaining exceptionally low as long as the unemployment rate is with the economy contracting.
above 6.5%, inflation one to two years ahead is expected to be no more than 2.5% and inflation expectations are well anchored.
More positively, unemployment fell, from around 8.3% at the turn of the year to 7.7% towards its end.
That helped to offset the continuing Irelands GDP grew by 1.3% in the four quarters to Q3 2012 as the squeeze on the spending power of earnings as wages grew by less than economy continued its slow recovery from deep recession.
sector continued to benefit from the boost to competitiveness delivered by falling real wages.
Housing market activity remained subdued.
Prices were broadly stable, some indices showing a rise and others a fall.
Any price increases seem For Ireland, gross national product GNP is a better measure of people's to have been concentrated in and around London.
It reflects the income residents receive rather than the value of the incomes generated in the country, an important The Bank of England continued its ultra-loose monetary policy stance.
distinction where there is a large foreign-owned sector that remits profits Although inflation remained above target, the Bank kept interest rates at overseas.
In fact, its greater concern was that the weak economy would cause inflation to be too low and in February and July it increased its Unemployment averaged more than 14%.
At the end of the year house asset purchase programme by 50 billion taking the total value of assets prices were 4.5% lower than 12 months earlier and around 50% below purchased to 375 billion.
The Governments decision to transfer the their peak.
The rate of decline was slower than at any time since 2008 coupon payments from the Asset Purchase Facility to HM Treasury, and there were tentative signs that prices were stabilising.
which will use these proceeds to reduce the stock of Government debt, has a similar effect to further quantitative easing.
Entering 2012, the greatest economic concern was how problems related to sovereign debt in the euro zone would be managed.
By agreeing the In July, the Bank of England and HM Treasury launched the Funding for outline of a banking union, undertaking to purchase sovereign debt to Lending Scheme FLS.
It is designed to boost lending to households and push down yields and making progress on fiscal rules, European leaders non-financial firms.
Early indications from the Banks Credit Conditions and the European Central Bank took some steps that are necessary if an Survey suggested that the supply of credit had expanded towards the economic and monetary union is to be sustained.
At the end of the year end of the year.
the probability that some of the worse outcomes would be realised had fallen although they had not disappeared.
Despite this progress, euro In the United States, GDP growth was slightly stronger at 2.2% compared zone GDP contracted and unemployment had risen to almost 12% by with 1.8% in 2011.
Uncertainty about how leaders might resolve December.
immediate and longer-term fiscal challenges weighed on growth during much of the year.
