RISK REVIEW CONTINUED RISK CATEGORIES Risks Primary activities Key tools for managing INSURANCE RISK r Pricing, acceptance and management r Portfolio classification that tracks trends and Our insurance risk of risks arising from our contracts performance of individual insurance portfolios strategy has enabled us to with customers r Regional and Group Reserving Committees held continue delivering strong r Claims management and reserving to determine a recommended level of outstanding insurance results through claims and aggregate outstanding claims reserves our diversified portfolio.
r Scenario modelling that is appropriate for the size and complexity of our portfolios r Investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
REINSURANCE RISK r Reinsurance strategy and appetite r Group Reinsurance policy aligned with strategy Our reinsurance buying and recommended to the Board by the and appetite management expertise has Board Risk Committee r Various modelling tools used to determine allowed us to manage our r Purchase of the worldwide programme retention strategies and analyse the effectiveness insurance exposure and losses of global and local treaties of major treaty purchases such as those arising from natural catastrophes during r Reinsurance counterparty management.
r Monitoring and control of the Groups 2011 and 2012. reinsurance activity r Monitoring of the reinsurance markets r Reinsurance counterparties approved by the Group Reinsurance Credit Committee.
OPERATIONAL RISK r Effective and reliable operation r Risk and control self assessments We have completed various of processes r Key risk indicators to assess and manage Group-wide assessments to r Business continuity and operational risk strengthen our operations.
disaster recovery r Scenario analyses to assess operational events r Information security management that have occurred elsewhere and potential exposure to the Group r Monitoring and control to prevent fraud and human error.
r Incident management, near misses and loss reporting.
CREDIT, MARKET & r Investment strategy and r Controls to ensure that exposure is managed within LIQUIDITY RISK portfolio management risk appetite We continue to proactively r Risk analysis using a range of techniques r Monitoring of exposure against limits set out in the manage our financial risks investment limits framework during the challenging r Treasury activities such as Group economic climate.
liquidity and hedge effectiveness r Portfolio analytics r Scenario and Stress Testing r Requirements to maintain a minimum level of cash or highly liquid assets r Group Financial risk policies aligned with strategy and appetite r Committees overseeing the Groups investment strategy and risk limits.
REGULATORY RISK r Ensuring compliance in all geographical r Active engagement with regulators Responding to demanding and locations, with diverse regulatory r Close monitoring of regulatory requirements more intrusive regulatory requirements environment across the Group r Compliance framework with consistent monitoring r Response to regulatory changes to ensure compliance and methodology safeguard our business.
r Continued preparations for the r Monthly reporting of significant regulatory implementation of Solvency II.
developments and mitigation of emerging risks.
28 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES Risks Potential impact Mitigation PROLONGED ECONOMIC r Impact on investment portfolio and r Action taken to mitigate falling yields include DOWNTURN investment income due to lower increasing holdings in non government bonds, interest rates and market volatility property exposures and bond duration r Insufficient capital generation.
r Retain focus on high quality, low risk investment strategy r Asset Liability Matching and cash flow management r Delivery of key operational plans r Internal and external dividend policy.
RATING ENVIRONMENT r Inability to charge adequate rates places r Diversified portfolio downward pressure on operating results.
r Each portfolio has a rate plan which is regularly reviewed r Focus on underwriting and profitable growth r Actively shift capacity to where we see the best returns r Continue to invest in technical skills, sales and marketing capabilities.
ADVERSE LOSS EXPERIENCE r Catastrophic losses arising from r Underwriting strategy set to ensure risks written insurance events are well diversified and within risk appetite r Increasing frequency and severity r Regular portfolio reviews to monitor of large losses underwriting performance r Deterioration in long tail reserves.
r Emerging trends in large losses, frequency and severity are investigated and corrective action taken r Reinsurance programmes limit net losses r Conservative reserving policy ensuring that claims reserves will be more likely than not to result in positive prior year development r Exposure and accumulation management tools to monitor and control exposures in higher risk areas.
INSURANCE RISKS OUTSIDE r Adverse impact on operating results r The Group operates under a clear risk appetite GROUPS RISK APPETITE due to increased volatility.
set by the Board which is monitored at Group and regional level r Underwriters are licensed only to write risks within specified limits based on their own experience r Reviews assess each portfolio against key performance and risk indicators.
Portfolios that trigger key risk indicators are investigated.
Corrective measures are implemented where required r Diversified portfolio providing exposure to markets at different levels of development and insurance cycle r Maintain focus on underwriting discipline and targeted profitable growth.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to managing our business in a responsible and ethical manner Our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy In 2012 we carried out a strategic review is increasingly important to our customers, of the programme to ensure it remains our employees, investors and regulators.
appropriate to our stakeholders and It is a core part of how we operate, with responsive to our business needs.
As part Doing the Right Thing an intrinsic part of this, we conducted a number of interviews of our values.
We strive always to conduct with senior managers to understand both our business with integrity and in a fair, their aspirations and the aspects they see transparent manner, adhering to ethical as critical to the success of the programme.
standards and responding appropriately to our stakeholders needs.
We also benchmarked our current progress to understand better our strengths and Our CR programme is designed to address weaknesses, assessed socio-economic and the environmental, social and governance environmental trends and how they could issues considered most relevant to our impact on our business and carried out an industry.
During its first seven years it has extensive  exercise.
supported the sustainable growth of our business, engaged our employees, minimised Our review evaluated the 2012 materiality our environmental impacts and made a issues matrix, that sets out the issues of positive contribution to the communities most importance to our stakeholders, that in which we operate.
The programme has are core to our business operations and been recognised by a number of external should be addressed by our CR programme.
bodies: in 2012, we retained Platinum status These issues include the increasing need for in Business in the Communitys annual transparency within our sector, the need to CR index, remained ranked as Prime identify and mitigate the potential impacts of by Oekom and in the Carbon Disclosure climate change and disasters, and help adapt Project CDP, FTSE4Good and Dow Jones our economies to support financial inclusion.
The matrix is developed through external stakeholder engagement, informed by 2012 Materiality Matrix Economic situation Social inclusion Flooding Climate HIGH Safety PRIORITY Disasters Ageing populations Investments Transparency Customer service MEDIUM PRIORITY Employee wellbeing Employee training Obesity Urbanisation Corruption Product innovation Supply chain Water scarcity Emerging markets Ecosystem decline Diversity LOW PRIORITY Resource prices New technology Direct environmental impact Energy security Business ethics Limited influence or no ability Able to influence or encourage mitigation Direct control or ability to mitigate OUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE 30 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 STAKEHOLDER VIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW analysis by Forum for the Future and internal We commissioned Deloitte to produce a A total of 1,651 2011: 5,200 volunteers engagement, including our annual CR cost-benefit analysis of our proposals and contributed 7,776 hours 2011: 17,000 of employee survey.
launched the findings at an event in the time to local charities.
We donated 1.6m Houses of Parliament.
Our research found 2011: 2.6m through corporate donations The existing strengths of our programme that road crashes caused by poor driver vision to our charitable partners and our will be maintained and opportunities for cost an estimated 33 million a year and result employees raised 0.15m 2011: 0.25m improvement taken.
In 2013 we will outline in nearly 2,900 casualties.
In comparison, our fortheir chosen charities.
Volunteering and a new vision for our CR programme and recommended approach is estimated to charitable donations were lower in 2012 the activities we will commit to.
generate net savings to the UK economy after than previous years as a result of a change one year, increasing to 14.4 million by year inthe way we define volunteering and Governance ten.
As part of the campaign we also held a fundraising hours.
In addition, 2011 saw Our CR programme is underpinned by a series of free eye-health screening sessions a spike in activity co-ordinated around robust internal governance structure and for employees in offices throughout the an Arctic Challenge programme.
We will continue to promote this rests with our Group Chief Executive, important road-safety issue in 2013.
In Latin America, staff made donations of and in 2012, we introduced a Group CR time, cash and gifts in kind to orphanages Committee and Sub-Committee Working Our child road-safety education and schools as well as helping build Groups to ensure accountability and programme in the UK reached more accommodation for the homeless.
Activity delivery across business lines and regions, than 40 primary schools 5,000 children in Italy included fundraising and volunteering supported by our internal CR functions.
Our nominated by our employees.
In early 2012, in the aftermath of the earthquake in Emilia CR policies also form part of our broader we extended the programme to schools to support the community affected.
Every in Bahrain and Singapore.
region is required to report any breaches In the UK we work with partners to address on a quarterly basis, with compliance reviewed We also continued to focus on night-time youth unemployment and employability.
We by the Group Executive Committee, visibility for road users a priority for have a long-standing relationship with Careers Group Board and internal risk function.
manyof our countries, particularly in Academies UK, which works with schools, the winter months by continuing our colleges and business to raise the aspirations Our materiality framework and non-financial long-running reflector programmes.
Since 2008, over 100 2012 data has been assured by external volunteers across multiple countries handed RSA employees have become Partners in auditors  against out morethan 140,000 high-visibility vests Business, volunteering to mentor students.
More UK employees will begin their work with students in early 2013.
OUR 2012 CR PROGRAMME Community Investment OF ACTIVITIES Our community strategy remains focused We will continue to offer volunteering and on the issues that are important to our charitable matched-funding resources to our Road Safety stakeholders.
We seek to make a positive employees.
We are also developing ambitious In 2012 we extended our work on road contribution to society and our local plans to expand CR activities and measure safety around the world.
As a significant communities through our products and the impact of our community investment motor insurer, we are committed to services as well as through our charitable programmes.
We are focusing our efforts making roads safer for all users.
These include financial on creating opportunities for our people contributions, gifts in kind and the support to contribute their skills in educational In the UK our activity focused on our of our people.
RSA employees from all programmes and to support enterprise Fit to Drive campaign.
This aims to raise over the Group are actively involved in and entrepreneurship.
awareness of the dangers of driving with fundraising and volunteering to address poor vision as well as the importance of issues relating to financial inclusion, having regular eye tests and calls for changes unemployment, poverty, education, to the way drivers eyesight is tested.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT We published joint thought-leadership Environment and climate change are critical pieces looking at how Irelands electricity factors affecting our business.
We believe sector could be fide-carbonised and a briefing insurers have an important role to play in on sustainable aquaculture.
We will continue the development of an adequately adapted, to work with WWF in 2013 to provide low-carbon global economy.
We understand insight to our business and the wider the urgent need for our industry to identify industry on environmental risks.
and respond to environmental risk, including by developing appropriate products and By better understanding emerging trends, services.
At the same time, we will continue we can identify opportunities for new to reduce the impact of our own operations products and services that promote and those of our supply chains.
We are sustainability, building on our work in 2012. committed to leading the debate on climate change and participating in forums including r In the UK, our Engineering division and Climatewise and the United Nations the Carbon Trust committed to working Environment Programme Finance Initiative together to raise our customers UNEP FI Sustainable Insurance initiative.
awareness of energy efficiency: Risks and Opportunities r In Canada, our green home endorsement Our long-term international partnership policy ensures any repairs are carried with WWF continues to help integrate out with environmentally friendly, safe environmental considerations into our materials: and business.
In 2012, we undertook research r In Denmark, we work with existing with WWF into how changing sea ice suppliers to help our customers save distributions could affect shipping routes energy and reduce CO emissions, 2 andpresent new risks to the sensitive through an energy-efficient window environment within the Arctic Circle replacement scheme.
and commissioned research into global environmental systemic risks.
Greenhouse gas emissions for RSA Insurance Group for 2012 Geographical breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions for 2012 Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 2006 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2012 2011 baseline UK & Western Europe 7,196 13,788 7,086 Scope 1 13,262 12,902 Canada 978 2,775 3,617 Scope 2 27,263 28,344 Scandinavia 1,134 2,769 3,712 Scope 3 20,276 21,836 Emerging Markets 3,954 7,931 5,861 Total gross 60,801 63,082 77,247 Water Waste Paper Energy CO e 2 3 m Tonnes Tonnes MWh Tonnes Gross tonnes CO 2 5,398 113,898 63,082 per m NWP 7.3 7.7 14.1 107,284 60,801 2,289 2,108 Carbon offsets UK & Ireland 27,124 27,470 222,532 210,424 2,798 Total net emissions 33,677 35,612 77,247 Net tonnes CO 2 per m NWP 4.0 4.3 14.1 Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions tonnes Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam Scope 3: Other indirect emissions 32 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Our Impacts Our Supply Chain We understand the importance of We work closely with our business partners reducingour own environmental impact, and intermediaries to grow a successful and this is supported by our policies.
We business while reducing our collective areon track to achieve a 50% reduction in environmental and social impact.
In the UK, CO emissions relative to the value of our we asked a number of our suppliers about 2 net written premiums by 2020 based on their management of CR issues and engaged 2006 levels.
in active dialogue to improve standards.
Wealso held our second supplier workshop Our operations in the UK, Ireland and to discuss our approach to CR and what Group Corporate Centre are carbon weexpect from them.
Our UK business neutral, offsetting their equivalent emissions is actively working to minimise energy in renewable-energy projects in China, India consumption in our claims supply chain and South America which are certified to through investigating new technologies the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
In Scandinavia, we refreshed our supplier codes of conduct, We continue to monitor environmental ensuring strong action on environmental dataacross the Group in order to meet and social issues.
In 2012, we focused on consolidating more local office data into the Responsible Investments Group collection process.
Combined with The majority of our UK equity assets working with our third party suppliers to continue to be managed by F&C Asset improve the accuracy of the data provided, Management.
F&C has one of the we have noted an increase in our waste largestgovernance and .
We remain committed to investment teams in Europe, enabling it monitoring, targeting and reducing all to follow a policy of active engagement our impacts across the Group.
on environmental, social and governance issues.
Last year, F&C engaged with 16 We understand that engaging employees in companies on a wide range of issues from our environmental programme is crucial to climate change to labour standards across achieving its goals.
In 2012, we launched an our portfolios.
environmental champion online forum, the Green Network, and hosted a webinar In 2012, we worked with WWF and Mercer with WWF on water efficiency.
to understand how environmental, social and corporate governance issues are or can For the second year running, we held our be integrated into fixed-income investment global environmental employee engagement pricing and assessment.
This research will campaign Seeing is Believing with be shared with our investment team and WWF.
RSAs Rainforest Challenge asked pension-fund trustees.
staff for novel, practicable ways we can reduce our environmental impact and save For further information on Corporate customers money.
The winning idea was to Responsibility, please email corporate.
link eco-friendly domestic improvements responsibility@gcc.
com or to with cheaper home insurance, and its see the full Corporate Responsibility Report, creators won an expedition to the Brazilian visit www.
Atlantic Rainforest to see for themselves why ideas like theirs matter.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 33
