Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is important to Schroders.
We want to ensure that the Group acts in a socially responsible way in its day-to-day operations.
The principles of corporate responsibility with its requirements.
During 2012, we CR are embedded in the way we run engaged in dialogue with a number of our business.
We have policies in place external action groups to share details to ensure that Schroders behaves in a of our approach in this area.
socially responsible way in its day-to-day activities.
As a major investor, we also Marketplace monitor the activities of the companies in Corporate engagement is an integral part which we invest and use our inuence as a ofour investment processes.
It allows us shareholder to encourage these businesses to understand the sustainable value of the In 2012, Schroders joined the to act responsibly.
companies in which we invest on behalf of London Benchmarking Group our clients.
During 2012, our fund managers to understand how we can Schroders is committed to conducting its and analysts attended approximately improve our CR programmes.
tax affairs in an open and transparent way.
15,000 meetings with companies to discuss In 2012, we paid corporate income taxes issues such as financial performance, of 81.6 million 2011: 78.5 million.
Oversight information on tax can be found in our financial statements on page 102.
We are committed to the UK Stewardship In order to ensure that CR is embedded Code published by the Financial Reporting within our business, the Corporate We aim to comply with our tax obligations Council in 2012 and we state on our Responsibility Committee is chaired by worldwide and to maintain a good reputation website how we comply with the code.
Philip Mallinckrodt, an executive Director.
with tax authorities in the key jurisdictions in which we operate.
In the UK, Schroders Our global Investment and Corporate was one of the first businesses to enter into Governance Policy sets out our approach a framework agreement with HMRC.
We to engaging with companies in which we keep HMRC informed of business activities, hold equity investments and our approach results and key developments as they arise to conicts of interest in that regard.
We will and proactively disclose issues, risks and engage and normally vote on any issue uncertain tax positions.
affecting the long-term sustainable value of a company in which we invest.
Our We have also signed up to the Code of focus is primarily on issues material to Practice on Taxation for Banks and comply the value of the companys shares.
Our approach to CR is built around four areas: Marketplace Environment Being transparent in our operations Minimising our environmental footprint and reporting Encouraging and supporting these principles Community in the companies in which we invest Supporting the communities in which we operate People Attracting, developing and retaining Our behaviour is also inuenced by our people of integrity core values of integrity, passion, innovation, teamwork and excellence.
38 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Company resolutions voted on During the year, we voted at over 5,600 Annual employee meetings are also held % company meetings.
We aim to vote at all to facilitate the exchange of views with 2010 88 company meetings where we have an senior management and discussion ofthe 2011 85 equity holding and will vote on all progress made by the Group.
In the UK, 2012 90 resolutions except where there are anEmployee Forum provides an additional onerous conditions attached to voting.
channel for representing employee views to management.
Voting reports are provided quarterly to Institutional clients and we also publish Remuneration details of our voting record on our website Our approach to remuneration is explained after a suitable period so that the publication in the Remuneration report on page 62. of voting does not inuence the outcome of Employees can personalise elements of any company discussions.
We believe that their benets package to suit their own effective engagement withmanagement needs and ambitions.
should, if at all possible, remain condential since publicity can frequently entrench High ethical standards positions rather thanresolve issues.
We promote high ethical standards through our internal whistle-blowing People process, whereby employees can raise Schroders employs more than 3,000 concerns about behaviour or decisions people across 27 countries and we work that would indicate potential wrongdoing.
to ensure that our employment policies Personal securities trading by employees reect best practice globally.
We strive is subject to a clearly dened set of to be an employer of choice.
It is important that employees understand Employees are not permitted to solicit the strategic aims and objectives of the or accept any inducements that are Group and are clear about their role in likely to conict with their duties.
We communicate Training is provided in relation to regularly with employees worldwide anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, through a variety of channels.
terrorist finance, data protection The Employee Forum meets and treating customers fairly.
regularly in London and provides an additional channel for Equal opportunities representing employee views.
We are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination.
We expect our workforce to reect the diversity of the many communities in which we operate.
Where possible, we monitor the ethnic, age and gender composition of our existing workforce and those applying for jobs and the number of people within each of these groups.
A exible working policy has been developed to recognise the diverse needs of employees in managing the responsibilities of their work and personal lives.
We believe that achieving an effective balance in these areas is beneficial to both the Group and the individual.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Corporate responsibility continued Gender Our policy is to give fair consideration Schroders is already diverse in terms % to all applications for employment, having ofthenationalities employed in our local regard to particular aptitudes and abilities.
This is a key Male 56% The Group gives fulland fair consideration strength that provides us with local market to applications foremployment from knowledge and a deep understanding of Female 44% disabled persons.
If employees become our clients needs.
disabled, employment continues wherever possible, with retraining given if necessary.
The ratio of men to women in the For the purposes of training, career organisation has remained constant since development and progression, all 2007 with 44 per cent.
of employees being employees are treatedequally.
of our graduate intake was female, compared The Group is committed to creating with 33 per cent.
a work environment free of harassment in 2010.
To support our ongoing and bullying, where everyone is treated commitment to diversity, we intend to with dignity and respect.
A policy is in assess maternity leaver and return rates, place to assist the Group and our by country and function, to understand employees in treating everyone fairly howthis impacts our pipeline of talent.
regardless of their age, gender, race, Weare also considering the introduction sexual orientation, disability, religion ofa maternity mentoring programme, orbeliefs.
This policy is monitored tooffer practical support and coaching.
Personal development Managing diversity The Group operates an engaging We believe that appointments to performance management model rolesshould be based on merit and which encourages all of our employees performance.
We do not support to continue to develop and progress.
quotas of any sort but do recognise An annual appraisal is at the core of our that to attract, retain and develop a model, where performance is measured diverse workforce, we must have a against agreed objectives to inform proactive and coordinated approach.
decisions on remuneration, career development and future progression.
HR has introduced a number of new initiatives in 2012 to promote diversity within the firm.
40 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review 1.2 million Charitable donations in 2012 2011: 1.2 million We strive to encourage all of our In 2012, wemaintained our donations employees to full their potential by at 1.2 million 2011: 1.2 million, despite providing access to training and a reduction inprotability.
This included development opportunities, thus ensuring discretionary, one-off donations of they have the resources available to learn 300,000, to charitiesinvolved with and build their own successful career in social welfare around the world.
Payroll-giving schemes are operated Environment in a number of our ofces.
In the UK, We are committed to minimising the 25 per cent.
of environmental impacts of our operations employees continued to give in this way in through good management, and to 2012, and charitable matching donations delivering continuous improvement by the rm of 280,000 2011: 250,000 in our environmental performance.
were made to support these donations.
We received the newly-created Payroll Energy usage Giving Quality Mark Platinum Award from Energy usage is one of the most significant the Charities Aid Foundation in recognition ways in which our operations directly affect of this, having received the Gold Award the environment.
our five-year target of a 15 per cent.
decrease in our energy usage from 2007 Volunteering levels.
Energy usage has reduced by To underpin our focus on employee 24.3 per cent.
community involvement, employees in many of our ofces are able to take We used best practice 2012 guidelines up to 15 hours of paid leave per year from DEFRA DECCs Greenhouse Gas forvolunteering services.
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting to calculate our CO emissions in London.
In London, Schroders has been 2 During the five-year period, ourcarbon acorporate sponsor of the Hackney output has reduced by 25.7 percent.
which SchoolsMentoring Programme, reects our investment in energy efficiency established by the East London measures.
More information on other BusinessAlliance and Hackney Learning environmental measures can be found Partnerships, for the past five years.
Ouremployees mentor 14- to 17-year-old students in the London Borough of Community Hackney, increasing their self-confidence, 24.3% We support the communities in which we allowing them to gain experience of the operate and encourage our employees to working environment and broadening reduction do the same.
We exceeded our five-year target to reduce energy Charitable giving Employees across the globe have also usage by 15 per cent.
from Our approach to charitable giving focuses volunteered to help a variety of local 2007 levels on employee choice, supplemented by charities throughout 2012, both through discretionary donations.
The Group the volunteering schemes organised by matches employee charity donations Schroders and in their own free time.
and sponsorship raised, up to 2,400 per employee, per year.
For a more detailed look at Schroders activitiesacross all areas of CR, please visit www.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Oversight Ensuring operational effectiveness Operational effectiveness ensures we maintain high service quality and control operational risk.
cost:net revenue ratio over a market cycle, recognising that in weaker markets the ratio may be higher than our long-term target.
70% cost:net revenue ratio in line with our target 42 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Board of Directors 44 Group Management Committee 46 Corporate governance report 48 Remuneration report 62 Directors report 76 Statement of Directors responsibilities 77 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
