D S G T Y N S H N T O I D A A E V N E R M G E E U E Y N R N M H I O N O N M L I A L P O A D N C M R E C T E R E V A L U E ENABLING LOW-CARBON ECONOMIES PROVIDING BETTER PROSPECTS FOR OUR PEOPLE C S E Y U S U T I S P U S P T R E L O E Y C V M R C I U D E H R O A O I I S B N E R 36 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sustainability review Making tomorrow a better place Sector leading Sustainability means making tomorrow a better place for our people, customers, suppliers, local communities, and investors.
For us, becoming a more sustainable business goes hand performance in hand with becoming a more successful business.
Our 2020 sustainability strategy, based on the six positive outcomes below, will help us In this section of our to deliver our mission of making tomorrow a better place.
Annual Report we provide a summary of what we are doing to make our business more sustainable.
BUILDING A SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS For a more detailed account, please see our 2012 Sustainability Report, which will be published on our website in April 2013.
Enabling low-carbon economies Protecting the environment Objectives Objectives Our services will help Carillions customers We will work with our customers and work towards carbon neutrality, so suppliers to be best-in-class in reducing together we become the lowest carbon waste, managing use of water and raw producers in our respective sectors.
materials, and protecting biodiversity wherever we operate.
Supporting sustainable communities Providing better prospects for our people Objectives Objectives Our leadership in creating employment We will maximise the prospects of our and skills opportunities, coupled with people by offering opportunities for our understanding of the needs of our learning and development and create communities, will ensure we have a safe, healthy places to work.
significant and positive contribution everywhere we work.
Leading the way in our sector Building a successful business Objectives Objectives Through our sector leadership and role We will be recognised as the benchmark in creating a more sustainable economy, in sustainability and innovation, in turn we will increase shareholder value.
driving demand as the service provider of choice for customers.
Our sustainability strategy Our sustainability vision is to be recognised as a leading sustainable business and the leading sustainable support services company.
Our 2020 strategy supports our business strategy and growth plans for the remainder of this decade, by effectively managing the sustainability risks and opportunities for Carillion.
Our strategy focuses on sharing knowledge and working closely with customers and suppliers to deliver sustainable solutions that reach beyond our immediate operations.
We are consciously driving this strategy externally, helping our customers to meet their sustainability objectives, while contributing to the creation of a low-carbon economy and supporting vibrant, healthy communities.
We understand that to be recognised as a leader, we have to manage the impacts and opportunities of our contracts, services and supply chains.
SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES N D O G A H N G N U N E I I A R S T D A T E P N L E S E D T O S A O I H F T F P F C L E O E U T Y D E R PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT LEADING THE WAY 37 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our sustainability efforts contribute directly to our corporate strategy to deliver sustainable, profitable growth by, for example enabling us to win and retain more contracts attracting and retaining the best people enhancing our reputation in the marketplace and among our stakeholders reducing operating costs and risk maintaining our licence to operate.
We believe that championing sustainability is critical to the long-term success of our business and this strategy will help us to maintain our position as sector leader.
Building a sustainable business Our 2020 sustainability strategy is driven directly by the Carillion plc Board and is implemented and monitored within robust governance frameworks.
Our Board is supported by a Sustainability Advisory Committee chaired by our Chief Executive, Richard Howson, and includes our Group Finance Director and a number of senior managers.
The Committee also benefits from expert advice from two independent advisors, Dame Julia Cleverdon, Vice President of Business in the Community BITC and Special Advisor to the Princes Charities and Jonathon Porritt, Founder Director of Forum for the Future.
Supporting the Sustainability Advisory Committee, we have a Group Sustainability Forum of our senior business leaders which is chaired by our Chief Sustainability Officer, Tom Robinson.
The Forum informs the development of our sustainability strategy, shares best practice and ensures the effective dissemination of our sustainability strategy and policies to each business unit.
All our businesses have a sustainability plan and objectives, which form an integral part of their annual business plans.
The Groups sustainability targets are based on 43 specific and measurable targets to beachieved by 2020.
To drive continual improvement, we set ambitious targets and our performance against them is independently verified.
A detailed account of our progress againstthese targets will be included in our 2012 Sustainability Report, which will be publishedin April 2013.
In 2011, we achieved a Platinum ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index for the third year running, with a score of 97 per cent.
The index involves adetailed, independent assessment of Carillions sustainability strategy, management processes and performance.
Such assessments enable us to benchmark our performance against other companies, including those in different market sectors.
Our objective is to at least match our 2011 ranking when the 2012 index is published in April 2013.
Carillion continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index and in 2012 we submitted a full response to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
In 2012, we also maintained our Certified Emissions Measurement and Reduction Scheme CEMARS accreditation.
There were a number of notable highlights in 2012.
In the Middle East and North Africa, we won the Arabia CSR Award and the Construction Week Sustainability Award for the second year, in addition to being highly commended in the CSR Award category We became key partners in the UK Governments Green Deal and a Gold Leaf Member of the UK Green Building Council We celebrated our 500th work placement and 200th job outcome through the Business Action on Homelessness partnership, becoming the largest-scale corporate delivery partner.
In 2012, we continued to deliver specific sustainability targets for each of our businesses andforthe Group as a whole, focusing on the following areas and objectives.
Reducing waste sent to landfill to zero by 2015 in 2012 86 per cent of our waste was diverted from landfill, compared with 82 per cent in 2011 Contributing at least 1 per cent of our profits, in cash and kind, to good causes in 2012, we contributed over 2 million or some 1.1 per cent Customer perception in our 2012 market perception survey, Carillions overall rating was commercially acceptable, with market-leading ratings for some of our businesses.
Simon Webb right, Managing Director of Al Futtaim Carillion, collecting the award for Enabling low carbon economies Sustainability Initiative of the Year on behalf By partnering with others, we are well placed to tackle the global challenge of climate change, of Al Futtaim Carillion in the Construction and to harness the opportunities presented by low-carbon markets.
We are helping our Week Awards 2012. customers work towards carbon neutrality, so that together we become the lowest carbon producers in our respective sectors.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 38 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sustainability review continued We calculate and publish details of our carbon footprint annually.
In 2010, Carillion registered with the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, which applies mandatory emission cuts to large commercial and public sector organisations.
We installed smart meters across our work sites to provide instant, accurate measurements of the electricity, gas and oil used to power our offices, site accommodation and construction projects.
We also submit data to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP an independent, not-for-profit organisation that aims to increase transparency and promote climate change data as a factor in business, policy and investment decisions.
Carillion Energy Services CES is the UKs leading independent provider of energy efficiency services, capable of creating major new opportunities in the energy services market.
With sector-leading expertise in energy efficiency solutions, we are in a position to transform the sustainable energy market in the UK.
In 2012 we delivered energy efficiency savings for our Merseyside MPs, Joe Benton and Steve customers reducing carbon by 3.7 million tonnes.
Rotheram, visited the Carillion Training Centre in Liverpool, where they met In 2012, CES became a key delivery partner of the Green Deal, a UK Government initiative to Alison Valentine, Carillion Training Centre help householders and businesses save money through energy efficiency.
In 2012, Carillion was manager and Carillion trainees.
Carillion awarded the Birmingham Energy Savers BES contract worth up to 1.5 billion over eight years.
is one of the largest private sector providers This is a joint initiative with Birmingham City Council, initially to refurbish around 60,000 homes of training services in the UK, with up to and non-domestic buildings with energy-saving measures, such as insulation and new boilers.
2,000 apprentices in training each year.
This contract also enables other Local Authorities in the West Midlands to take advantage of the energy-saving measures that CES is providing to Birmingham City Council.
Protecting the environment Across all our operations, protecting the environment is fundamental to the way we work.
We seek to manage our environmental impacts by using natural resources efficiently, sourcing responsibly, protecting biodiversity and reducing waste and by helping our customers do the same.
We are proud to report that all of our UK and Middle East and North Africa MENA operationsare certified to the ISO 14001 international standard.
Carillions Canadian Joint Venture, TWD Roads Management, is also certified.
Our standards are subject to audits by anexternal verification company.
In 2011, we set a target for all permanent UK contracts and projects to capture water consumption data and keep monitoring this every year in order to reduce our water consumption by 25 per cent by 2015.
Our strategic target is to send zero non-hazardous waste to landfill by 2015.
For us, this is not just an environmental imperative, but a valuable efficiency driver in a competitive market.
The absolute volume of waste we produce declined in 2012 as a result of determined efforts across our operations to cut costs and protect the environment.
We work not only to protect the biodiversity of sites and neighbouring land across the projects in which we are involved, but to enhance it.
We assess our impact on biodiversity through our Biodiversity Risk Assessment Process, a requirement on all contracts.
In 2012, we updated the assessments and action plans to cover restoration activities and better reflect the current biodiversity issues across our regions.
We have also continued the Carillion Natural Habitats Fund, which we set up in 2001, to support The Wildlife Trusts.
Our donations and employee volunteering help The Wildlife Trusts essential habitat and conservation work, and to date thefund has supported 60 projects with grants totalling over 370,000.
Supporting sustainable communities Doing business within thriving communities is vital for our future growth.
Strong communities provide a loyal customer base, a pipeline of skilled people, a balanced civil society, resilient supply chains and long-term investors.
In 2012, we increased our focus on getting people into employment through the Business Action on Homelessness Ready for Work Programme.
We offered 188 placements in 2012 against a target of 145 and our highest number to date, which resulted in 77 people gaining employment, 25 with Carillion, eight with our supply chain partners and the remaining 44 with other employers.
By working in collaboration with our partners and our people, Carillion is now offering more work placements under the Ready for Work Programme thananyof the other 140 corporate supporters in the UK.
We are proud to have been a partner of the UK Government agency, Jobcentre Plus, since 2007.
This agency is now our largest provider of employees, helping us to recruit 492 people in2012.
Since 2001, we have given at least one per cent of our annual pre-tax profits to charitable and community causes through a combination of cash and in-kind donations including time spent by Carillion employees working on community and charity projects.
39 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We believe that by engaging with community and charity groups, we increase the morale and motivation of our people while delivering tangible benefits to the communities in which we work.
We are delighted to support the diverse and enterprising volunteering efforts of our people across many different sectors, which also add value to our business through the development of skills and community engagement.
In line with this, we have processes in place to allow employees the opportunity to use their working time to support external initiatives.
Providing better prospects for our people Carillions success relies on our ability to attract and retain a diverse range of talented employees from thriving communities.
The health, safety, wellbeing, and development of ourpeople are of utmost importance.
We have provided more details on our performance against Key Performance Indicators on page 11.
Carillion recognises that one of its greatest sustainability impacts is the provision of employment, both within our business directly and also through our sub-contractors and suppliers.
Where feasible, we are committed to sourcing our employees locally in the areas where we work, helping to improve economic prospects, reduce the carbon footprint of our activities, provide skills training for the local population and support sustainable communities.
Our annual S Factor competition celebrates inspiring examples of individuals across the business who have gone the extra mile in the name of sustainability.
2012 saw over 200 applications submitted from across the Group.
The overall winner was Piccadilly Estate Management Team where the team has reduced CO emissions by 250 tonnes and water consumption by 200,000 2 litres annually.
This equates to approximately 30,000 saved, which is passed straight back to the tenants in the building.
The competition was a great success and demonstrated the high level of engagement in sustainability across the Group.
Leading the way in our sector Sustainable leadership is about bringing others along the journey.
By involving customers andsuppliers, we can fulfil our vision to be the provider of choice for delivering, managing, andservicing assets.
As well as our ongoing interaction and  with customers, there are formal feedback points built into the contract lifecycle at which we ask our customers to share their perspectives.
Our annual customer satisfaction survey is carried out by an independent company to encourage honest feedback.
All feedback is communicated to the business andaction plans are developed to address improvements.
The survey also includes a number ofquestions relating to sustainability, which help us to track our performance against our strategy.
In the 2012 survey, Carillion achieved an overall rating that exceeded a commercially acceptable level, with market-leading ratings for our civil engineering and building activities.
Globally, Carillion buys a wide variety of products and services and has an annual procurement spend of more than 3 billion.
We therefore have a significant opportunity to extend our influence and Values beyond our immediate business.
Our Leading the Way strategy focuses on the following objectives purchasing responsibly and ethically sourced products and materials ensuring all timber sourced meets Forest Stewardship Council or equivalent standards targeting our top suppliers to collaborate on developing enhanced sustainable products Find out more: and services www.
com sustainability benchmarking suppliers through Carillions accreditation process and providing guidance to help those who meet only our basic requirements to improve maximising local spend and employment, including spend with small and medium-size enterprises.
As a major consumer of timber, we are committed to the responsible procurement of these products.
We aim to source all forest products including those sourced by subcontractors on our behalf from well-managed forests, which have been certified to Forestry Stewardship Council FSC or equivalent standards.
Carillions joinery workshop in Oman, part of our Middle East and North Africa MENA business, is the only operator in the country to have FSC chain of custody certification, providing assurance on the responsible sourcing of our timber products.
In 2012, this initiative won the Construction Week Sustainability Oman Award.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us
