C l i e n t s y t i r a h C s L o e P c e a a l y C r o o t m Corporate Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place is committed to growing our business in a way that considers the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
We understand that responsible management is important to all our stakeholders shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
ur commitment to responsible management was We are constantly seeking to improve our delivery, but Oestablished in the founding principles and is expressed recent public endorsements include: in both the Our Approach document, which is shared with Various awards relating to our client offering including all members of our community, and the What it means to the City of London Wealth Management Company of the be a member brochure, which sets out the expectations for Year, the Personal Finance Awards Best Financial our Partners.
We believe responsible management is Adviser and the Financial Times Investors Chronicle embedded in our culture and exists in the heart of our Wealth Manager of the Year: organisation.
Reminders and encouragement to live this Endorsement of our business model by the London philosophy are provided regularly, for example through stockmarket in the UK Stockmarket Awards, and by our promotion within our community of our charitable peers, winning in the insurance sector in the Britains foundation, through challenge to employees to deliver for Most Admired Companies awards: and clients, and by encouragement of our Partners to live up to Maintaining our inclusion in the FTSE4GOOD Index, the high standards expected of members of the Partnership.
which comprises companies that meet globally recognised corporate social responsibility criteria.
By living up to the expectations established within our culture, we believe we will be able to demonstrate This report provides a short summary of how we manage trustworthiness, reliability and a commitment to the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at St. Jamess Place.
In a world where the reputation of the More detail can be found in our standalone CSR report and financial services industry is constantly under pressure, we on our website at www.
aspire to create an authentic alternative which clients and suppliers can trust, and which the communities we are part of can appreciate and admire.
The St. Jamess Place Approach To CSR SJP Community & Culture 34 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 l n m p e u n r m i s t s i r e e E s i l p p u S E n v i r o n m e n t Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information CSR Governance Responsible management is central to our culture, and the task of maintaining this culture including our CSR ambitions is a key focus of the Executive Committee of the Board, comprising the four Executive Directors.
Oversight of this key asset of our business is provided by the full Board.
The Executive Committee of the Board is supported in this objective as in all of their work by a number of ExCos, which are chaired by the Directors and which involve other members of senior management.
Responsibility for specific areas has been further delegated to a number of specialist sub-committees.
Managing Committee Remit Our Culture and People Executive Committee of the To ensure the strength and maintenance of the unique Board culture throughout the SJP community.
Our Clients Client Steering Group To monitor the client care experience and promote high standards in all our interactions with clients.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation Trustees To manage the SJP Foundation, including overseeing Foundation grant-making and compliance with the charitys objectives.
CSR overview, Local CSR Group To co-ordinate SJPs approach to CSR, with specific focus Community and Suppliers on promoting local community activities and volunteering.
Our Investments Investment Committee To ensure the Investment Management Approach and our fund managers deliver in line with mandates and client expectations.
The Environment Environment Steering Group To promote environmental considerations in the management of the business, and encourage staff in making their personal contribution.
Our Culture Our culture is central to the success of our organisation and we are pro-active in building and reinforcing it.
To ensure continuity of our culture all employees and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership receive a booklet entitled Our Approach at induction, which gives guidance on the culture and values of St. Jamess Place.
We believe it is important for all areas of our community to know and understand our objectives, including the ethos behind the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and values should be maintained.
We are keen to promote our corporate culture and management style, to provide information about how we deal with internal and external communications, and to encourage a shared commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Members of the Partnership are also provided with a document entitled What it means to be a member, which sets out a philosophy and some principles.
We believe the shared commitment to living up to these principles is what gives the Partnership its competitive edge and makes it a group of professionals that other advisers aspire to join.
The document emphasises integrity, trust, openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and standards across our community.
Maintaining the freshness of the commitment to its culture is a key challenge for all businesses, and it is particularly relevant for SJP given the growth which has been achieved.
We recognise this challenge and are pro-active in reinforcing our culture, with key activities including an Annual Company Meeting, employee and Partner surveys, regular Partner meetings, feedback opportunities for employees with Directors, and a Leadership Conference for senior management.
These activities all provide opportunities to renew our joint understanding and encourage commitment to our shared culture.
The same activities also provide opportunities for all our community to develop a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Our People As part of our cycle of continuous improvement we also seek We are a people business and take pride in all our feedback from all new Partners six months after they join the community.
We believe that our success as a business Company.
Over 90% of these new recruits rated their initial depends on the loyalty and dedication of our people, months with the Partnership as seven or more out of ten, whether Partners or employees: they provide the Group and we are pleased that most indicated a willingness to with a sustainable competitive advantage and the attitude, recommend St. Jamess Place to former colleagues.
knowledge and commitment of our people continues to be a strong differentiator.
We aim to attract the best people People Development and help them fulfil their potential.
We secure their We are keen to ensure that all individuals are encouraged to commitment by providing them with an interesting and develop and are given opportunities to seek new challenges challenging career within a first class working environment, across the business.
Many of our initiatives in 2012 will and we reward them competitively taking into account the continue into the future including: whole package and by encouraging equity ownership.
We share ideas and are always receptive to suggestions for Membership of the Institute of Customer Service ICS, change.
We give credit where credit is due and work hard with a number of employees involved in the scheme.
A new Apprenticeship programme welcoming five school leavers into the business.
The Company is committed to maintaining an appropriately Knowledge Development Meetings KDMs, helping skilled and diverse workforce irrespective of age, colour, employees develop their understanding of our business race, nationality, ethnicity, sex, or disability.
It is our policy and enhance their knowledge.
to ensure that all job applicants and employees being Management development opportunities, including considered for promotion are treated fairly and on merit.
mentoring from more senior managers and specific In particular, we strive to give full and fair consideration to workshops for new managers.
applications from and promotions of disabled people, having Specific development programmes for the specialist roles regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and where within our Field Management Team.
appropriate, we will consider possible modifications to the working environment so they can take up opportunities or 2012 was a key year for members of the Partnership as the enhance their role.
We will similarly make every effort to changes in regulation required many of them to gain a achieve continuity of employment in the event of an higher level qualification by the end of the year.
Having employee becoming ill or disabled, for example, by worked hard to support Partners, the Company was very arranging appropriate training.
By adopting best practice pleased that all Partners were able to qualify in advance of principles we seek to ensure that our responsibilities are the deadline.
We are also pleased to be providing support met as an equal opportunity employer and that everyone for those now pursuing further qualifications, with 45% can enjoy an environment that is free from discrimination having plans to achieve Chartered status.
We continue to of any sort.
provide training for our Partner support teams and seek to ensure they are qualified to a similar or even higher level Employee Feedback than the Partnership.
In our 2012 Employee Survey we received a strong survey response rate of 86% compared to 85% in 2010 which 2012 also saw the relaunch of the Academy initiative, provided us with a good snapshot of how our employees are providing an opportunity for suitably qualified individuals feeling on a number of important issues.
A key result from to receive training and assistance to join the adviser the survey is the employee engagement index, which can community.
We now have 54 participants in three phases be used to compare SJPs results to those of other financial of the Academy programme and the success of earlier services organisations.
We were naturally pleased that SJPs programmes has resulted in the establishment of careers overall engagement score was 86%, which was significantly for more than 40 new financial advisers.
higher than the financial services benchmark of 73%.
Health and Safety Partner Feedback We work hard to create an excellent working environment Our 2012 Partner Survey also elicited a strong response for employees and Partners.
We ensure every office complies rate of 75% up from 69% in 2011 and the feedback on with Health and Safety regulations and also seek to improve areas as diverse as the Investment Management Approach, awareness through regular training sessions on subjects such our new Electronic Business Submission system and the as manual handling, fire marshal and first aider training.
support received from local management, Head Office and our key administration centres, was pleasingly positive.
36 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Each year we carry out fire risk assessments, fire evacuation The following two responses from our recent survey are tests and health and safety inspections and the actions examples of the benefit clients have gained from our client identified from these are completed appropriately and focus and service ethos: overseen by the Health and Safety working group.
The working group is chaired by the Operations Director and I am very pleased with the service.
I am a woman on my own and I meets at least quarterly to review policies, review the have put my trust in someone who takes time to explain things two progress against targets and agree the action plan for the or three times to make sure I understand.
I was recommended to St. Jamess Place by someone after a double bereavement.
It was one of lifes crossroads.
They explained what I Our Clients could do and what I could not do, to make sure I was safe and secure Putting the client at the centre of everything we do is core as I wanted.
to our culture and means we seek to run a genuinely client-focused business.
Through our relationship-based Despite receiving much positive feedback from clients, we advice service, we aim to help clients manage their wealth never become complacent.
We are constantly striving to in a way which reflects their personal circumstances.
improve our standards, and areas for improvement identified This approach has allowed us to develop long-lasting in the client survey will be followed up during 2013. relationships, founded on trust, with many of our clients.
In order to ensure that our business continues to be client We seek to deliver for clients by: focussed we have established a Client Steering Group, which meets regularly and monitors all areas of the business which Providing personal face-to-face financial advice from our can affect the client experience.
Areas discussed cover all experienced Partners.
stages of the client life cycle, from the suitability of advice, Giving them the opportunity to review their financial through the policy administration and investment affairs regularly.
performance, to the insurance claim experience and, where Ensuring all investments are managed effectively.
During 2012 the group was able Ensuring that our correspondence and literature is clear to recommend enhancements to existing processes and the and easy to understand.
development of new ideas to bring about improvements in Listening to feedback.
the client experience, including development of our on-line Ensuring that we are sensitive to their individual needs at services and the sharing of examples of best practice client all times.
The St. Jamess Place Partnership plays the leading role in In all we do, St. Jamess Place seeks to meet the needs and delivering our service.
The Partnership, so called because expectations of our clients, and the evidence suggests we they work in partnership with their clients, includes some achieve this goal for many clients.
In addition to the positive of the most experienced and able professionals working in feedback we receive from our client survey work, we also wealth management today and we are committed to experience low rates of surrender of funds, typically less supporting their on going professional development.
A further reflection of the level of client We seek to ensure they remain appropriately qualified, satisfaction is that the number of complaints we receive is technically able and equipped to deliver a first class service low, and it remained low in 2012 despite further growth in to our clients, and as a result we are happy to guarantee the both numbers of clients and funds under management.
quality of the advice that they give when recommending investments and other services provided by companies in the St. Jamess Place Group.
Given the importance of the Partner-client relationship we are quite proud of the positive results we receive in our regular client consultation work.
This work is undertaken via client surveys and focussed research and is our key way of eliciting feedback about the service clients receive and what they expect.
In our 2012 client survey 25% of clients rated their satisfaction level at ten out of ten and 82% of clients confirmed they were happy with the frequency of contact from their Partner.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued St. Jamess Place Foundation The St. Jamess Place Foundation was established in 1992, in the same year that the Group began trading and support for the Foundation and the underlying principle of giving back to those less fortunate in society has always been a core part of our culture.
The Foundation has grown significantly in the last 20 years and has become one of the most successful company charities in the UK.
It also enjoys considerable support from the SJP community, as demonstrated from the results of the recent employee survey where 96% of employees stated that they felt proud of the work SJP does to help others through the SJP Foundation.
20th Anniversary a record year Everest Challenge To celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Foundation, the A team of 25 employees and Partners took part in a trek to Trustees challenged the SJP community to raise the record Everest Base Camp, with Roger Owen, one of our sum of 4 million in 2012, a substantial increase on the employees, successfully climbing to the summit and the 3,062,000 raised in 2011.
Each office was asked to team together raising in excess of 700,000. organise fundraising events and nearly everyone within the SJP community played their part in helping the Foundation reach and exceed the target, whether by organising or attending events, sponsoring others, or by contributing to the Foundation through the regular giving scheme.
As is so often the case, the SJP community considerably exceeded the expectations of the Trustees by raising just over 5 million in 2012.
The Trustees wish to express their gratitude to everyone who contributed to making the 20th anniversary of the Foundation such a resounding success, both in terms of funds raised and the support we were able to provide to the various good causes that the Foundation Palace to Palace 24 Hour Walk supports.
In a year when surveys have suggested that A team of 117 walkers set off from Windsor Palace in May charitable contributions have reduced by around 20% due intent on walking 50 miles of the Thames Path and finishing to the economic climate, it is particularly pleasing that at Buckingham Palace within 24 hours, raising in excess of St. Jamess Place community has been able to increase its 100,000. charitable giving by 69%.
Cycle Challenge As in previous years, all funds raised by members of the 97 cyclists successfully rode over 500 kilometres from SJP community were matched pound for pound by the London to Reims in France raising over 270,000.
Company, thus doubling the impact of local fundraising.
Over 80% of all Partners and employees continued to make Less strenuous activities included balls, quiz nights, fashion regular monthly donations out of their income or salary to shows and a variety of other events organised across the the Foundation and this type of longer-term support country, providing hundreds of employees, Partners, enabled the Trustees to help charities over a longer period suppliers and friends with the opportunity to celebrate via multi-year grants.
Much of the remainder was raised 20 years of the Foundation whilst raising additional funds through the many events organised by our community for good causes.
throughout the UK, including: 38 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Supporting those most in need Hospice at Home Care In light of the record funds raised in 2012, the Foundation Research has shown that the majority of people receiving was able to increase the support it gives to the charitable end of life or palliative care would prefer to be cared for at sector, in a year that many charities are finding that they are home, but unfortunately this is often not possible.
The being forced to cut back on the services they deliver due to Foundation has committed 900,000 over three years to budget cuts and the withdrawal of local government funding.
the Hospice Movement with the first award dedicated to helping independent hospices to develop and extend their In 2012 the Foundation was able to donate over 3.8 million hospice at home services.
The Foundation has linked with to UK Registered Charities operating both in the UK and Help the Hospices, the umbrella organisation for most of overseas.
The Foundation also launched two major projects the UKs adult hospices, supporting eight hospices in 2012 designed to change the lives of many disadvantaged and to improve the care they provide in the home and we are in disabled young people, as well as those requiring palliative or the process of choosing further projects to support in 2013. end of life care in the UK.
Further details are featured below.
Foundation Themes The Foundation also made a number of multi-year The themes that guide the Foundations regular grant commitments to various charities and subject to the making are chosen by the St. Jamess Place community and satisfaction of various conditions has made conditional currently those themes include: commitments of 3.4 million to various charities between 2013 and 2015.
Supporting children and young people suffering from illness, disability or disadvantage: Sport for Good Our Olympic Legacy Supporting the hospices sector: and The first project Sport for Good, was initially inspired by Supporting people with cancer.
the 2012 Olympics and the social legacy that was such a significant part of the original Olympic bid.
The Foundation The majority of the projects the Foundation supports are aims to use sport as the hook to help disadvantaged and based in the UK, although around one third of funding is disabled young people across the UK.
In total the Foundation focused overseas, mainly in Africa, Eastern Europe, India, has committed 1,750,239 over three years and this support Nepal and Guatemala.
In 2012 the Foundation donated will enable seven organisations to deepen and extend their 0.8 million to UK Registered Charities operating overseas work with more marginalised young people.
and thus continued our commitment to children living in some of the most challenging parts of the world.
The project has had considerable success in its first year, with the following being achieved: In addition to the major projects summarised above, the Foundation continues to support small to medium sized Over 5,000 young people engaged so far, working with charities that match our themes, and donated a total of some of the most disadvantaged young people in our 0.9 million to 158 charities through the small grants community.
programme, with grants ranging from a few hundred Over 350,000 match-funding secured.
Many young people helped to achieve the transition into Plans for 2013 college or the workplace.
The Foundation plans to build on the success achieved in 2012 by continuing to support hundreds of charities operating in the UK and overseas.
Plans are well underway to award a major grant of over 1 million in 2013, whilst at the same time expanding on the small grants that are so vital to the charitable sector in these difficult times.
We have no doubt that the SJP community will continue to support the Foundation to achieve its objectives in 2013 and beyond.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Community Activities A recent Academy graduate, who completed an SJP is mindful of its role in our local communities.
An Internship with us, went on to win a National student important element of the grants distributed from our award in 2012.
He reflected on his internship and wrote Foundation is focussed on charities which are local to our The opportunity that was given to me to complete an offices, and these are often supported by our employees or internship at St. Jamess Place, and the support and Partners as well.
The Company also regularly provides guidance you all provided me whilst I was there, was life support for local events, particularly in Cirencester, where changing for me, and I believe this was true for the other our Head Office is based.
Grants in 2012 have included a students and will be for future students to come.
significant donation to match fundraising for the restoration project for the local church, and sponsorship of the local Building on our position as one of the leading providers outdoor swimming pool, which was at risk of closure.
of financial advice for adults, we have started exploring how we might also help young people learn to manage We are also proud of the generous spirit of our employees.
During the year, nearly 50 In our recent Employee Survey over 40% indicated that volunteers from the Company participated in a full day they are actively engaged in volunteering in their local of activities focussed on financial education at three local communities and we support them through our Employee secondary schools, benefitting nearly 500 pupils in Volunteering programme.
Two examples demonstrating the Year ten.
In a parallel initiative, 12 members of staff have breadth of activity are: delivered shorter, hour long, financial education sessions at a number of other local schools.
The feedback from two of our employees act as Trustees of Young pupils and staff was very positive, with over 97% of pupils Gloucestershire Young Glos, the leading voluntary indicating that they understood more about the financial youth organisation in Gloucestershire, delivering demands they will face as a young adult.
As a result of the high-quality programmes and training for vulnerable success of these initiatives we are further developing this young people: and offering in 2013. staff in our Cirencester office entered into the Christmas spirit by donating over 200 Christmas presents to the Finally, following such a successful Olympics, we County Community Projects CCP Hamper Scamper are pleased to be continuing our sponsorship of the Appeal supporting disadvantaged children in the county.
Our support has enabled the squad to receive additional However the central strand of activity in our local coaching, and, since our relationship started in 2007, the communities is focussed on schools and colleges.
The two team have medalled in all major UK and International key initiatives are: events including European, Commonwealth and World Championships, as well as the Olympics.
We are pleased Cirencester College has over 1,600 students between that our sponsorship of the programme will continue until the ages of 16 and 19 and our main involvement is in the 2016 Olympic Games.
providing support for the Academy Programmes, of which there arefive, each designed for students who aspire to work in a particular market sector.
We regularly support students with paid summer internships and we also provide extensive personal mentoring and business coaching.
St. Jamess Place sponsors a number of awards and continues to have representation on the various Academy Boardsat College and National levels.
We have also been able to offer thirteen Academy students jobs following their graduation, as a direct result of our relationship with the College.
40 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Suppliers Our Investments St. Jamess Place believes in treating all our stakeholders As a result of the success of our business, St. Jamess Place is fairly.
We also believe in the benefits to be gained from now investing over 34 billion of assets on behalf of our building long-term relationships based on mutual trust.
This gives us influence on stockmarkets and we As a result, many of our key suppliers have been associated recognise our responsibility for managing these investments with the Group for a number of years and we have been in a socially responsible fashion.
able to cultivate very strong and mutually beneficial relationships.
Key examples of the positive and beneficial As described under the section Our Business Model and relationships we have been able to establish with major Strategy, our investment management approach is at the suppliers are those with our providers of outsourced heart of our investment proposition to clients, and this administration services, Prudential, Capita, IFDS and involves an active approach to selecting and monitoring State Street.
fund managers from around the world, whilst retaining appropriate oversight responsibilities.
Our fund managers More generally, we expect all our suppliers to act in will each have their own standards for how they manage accordance with the standards embedded in our culture, their portfolios responsibly, but as part of our oversight we and will undertake due diligence on new service providers require that they all meet a minimum requirement.
to ensure we are comfortable with their approach to socially responsible management.
We are particularly pleased that The Stewardship Code is a set of principles or guidelines many of our suppliers share our desire to make a positive first released in 2010 and updated in 2012 by the Financial and lasting difference to the lives of those less fortunate Reporting Council, directed at institutional investors who than ourselves, and we are very grateful to all those who hold voting rights in United Kingdom companies.
Its have provided support to the St. Jamess Place Foundation, principal aim is to make institutional investors, who manage both through donations and through active participation in other peoples money, actively engage in corporate many of the events.
governance in the interests of their beneficiaries the shareholders.
St. Jamess Place requires that our fund St. Jamess Place has always placed great reliance on the managers should comply with these principles in full and as support of third party suppliers and the continued success of part of our oversight of the fund managers we undertake a our business reflects, amongst other things, our success in process of monitoring annually.
cultivating and managing successful relationships with suppliers.
We are pleased to have signed up to the Prompt Payment Code which is encouraged by the Department of Business Innovation and Skills BIS and demonstrates a commitment to good practice between organisations and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit to paying their suppliers within agreed and clearly defined terms, and commit also to ensuring that there is a proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued The Environment St. JamessPlace is committed to managing the Groups environmental impact through effective management of our energy systems, travel, water usage and waste recycling.
We recognise the effect our business can have on climate change and we take a positive approach to managing our business activities, whilst at the same time encouraging all Partners and staff to consider their own personal impact on the environment.
We measure our environmental data from October to September and the following tables summarise both our absolute and normalised CO e Emissions in recent years for our core business activities, using 2012 conversion rates as provided by 2 DEFRA for all our emission categories.
We also report on levels of paper recycled and water usage.
The data has been checked and verified by Ecometrica.
Although growth in staff numbers has caused us to miss our target for Absolute Emissions related to business travel, we are already significantly ahead of our three year targets on the key Normalised Emissions basis.
A reduction in the number of buildings has contributed to the reduction in water usage, while the reduction in paper recycled reflects a reduction in paper usage as a consequence of the introduction of our Electronic Business Submission system.
Absolute Emissions Core business operations 2010 2011 2012 2012 Target % Change on 3 YR Target Year to End September Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2010 2010-2013 2 2 2 2 Energy 2,954 2,947 2,683 2,907 -9.2% -4.0% Business Travel 1,137 1,195 1,245 1,117 9.5% -3.0% Waste 116 112 111 113 -4.3% -5.0% Total Tonnes 4,207 4,254 4,039 4,137 -4.0% -3.4% CO e Carbon Dioxide equivalent Methane and Nitric Acid are converted to Carbon Dioxide 2 Current targets were set in 2010 for three years and will be reviewed again in 2013.
Absolute 2010 2011 2012 change on Year to End September Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 2010 Paper Recycled 194 195 176 -9.3% Absolute 2010 Cubic 2011 Cubic 2012 Cubic change on Year to End September Metres Metres Metres 2010 Water usage 6,371 7,856 6,579 3.3% 42 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2.
Normalised Emissions Full Time Employees FTE Absolute tonnes of CO e 2 2010 FTE 2011 FTE 2012 FTE 2012 Target % Change 3 YR Target Year to End September CO e CO e CO e FTE CO e On 2010 2010-2013 2 2 2 2 Energy 1.992 1.869 1.611 1.899 -19.1% -8.0% Business Travel 1.638 1.578 1.467 1.505 -10.4% -11.0% Waste 0.078 0.071 0.067 0.074 -14.1% -10.0% Total Tonnes 3.708 3.518 3.145 3.478 -15.2% -8.9% Normalised 2010 2011 2012 change on Year to End September Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 2010 Paper Recycled 0.131 0.124 0.105 -19.8% Normalised 2010 Cubic 2011 Cubic 2012 Cubic change on Year to End September Metres Metres Metres 2010 Water used 4.296 4.982 3.949 -8.1% Year to End September 2010 2011 2012 2012 Target FTE Energy Waste 1,483 1,577 1,666 1,531 FTE Business Travel 694 757 849 742 Other Initiatives Carbon offsetting Recognising that we are unable to reduce our carbon emissions to a zero level while energy is primarily sourced from fossil fuels, we have made arrangements to offset our consumption through the purchase of carbon credits through the Carbon Neutral Company.
Electronic shareholder communications We remain a member of the eTree initiative www.
com, which encourages shareholders to receive electronic communications, and is run in association with the Woodland Trust Tree for All campaign.
More information about our Environmental Policy and activity can be found on our website at www.
