22 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 People Bringing our culture and values to life With over 89,000 employees representing 12 7 nationalities, the diversity of our workforce is a core Our highlights in 2012 strength and important part of what makes our culture Strengthened the link between our values and our brand distinctive.
A belief in, and commitment to, our brand promise, recognising how employees bring them to life promise, Here for good, motivates our people to deliver through the introduction of the Chairmans Here for consistently exceptional performance while maintaining good Awards the highest standards of fairness and integrity.
Increased our already high global employee engagement We remain committed to providing a compelling employee score to 4.26 on a scale of 1 to 5, showing the strong experience that meets the same high standards we aspire to levels of engagement and commitment across the deliver to our clients and customers.
We recognise that different organisation views create innovation and we work hard to sustain an open and collaborative working environment.
We value our employees Grew our global headcount by more than 2,000 and for who they are and what they bring to the Group, encouraging further expanded our graduate population as we continue them to make the most of their natural strengths as they pursue to strengthen our cultural and generational diversity their career aspirations.
Providing relevant and meaningful Reinforce d the importance of how objectives are learning opportunities is central to that experience and ensures achieved, in terms of values, conduct and behaviour our people have the capabilities needed now and in the future.
Assessing peoples performance both on what and on how objectives are achieved has been central to our remuneration Our priorities in 2013 approach for the past 10 years.
It is an important part of how we Reinforce Here for good as the Groups core purpose translate our distinctive values and culture into everyday actions helping our people to use the brand promise as the and decisions, a nd so conversations about our values are a key standard by which they behave and make decisions part of our twiceyearly performance reviews.
Grow our future leaders by increasing their Attracting and retaining talent understanding of generational differences and We continue to hire to support our growth in Asia, Africa and targeted development opportunities the Middle East and have increased our net headcount by Refresh the capabilities needed to sustain success moret han 2,000 Group-wide in 2012.
We continue to seek across the Group and develop innovative ways to identify, people from diverse backgrounds to support the needs of manage and develop these capabilities clients and customers locally, and who can collaborate and innovate globally.
We also look to hire people who share Strengthen the pivotal role of people managers in our vision, our commitment to performance and our delivering a differentiated employee experience, and equip deeplyfelt values.
them with the skills they need to work in an increasingly complex and regulated environment Continuing to build and enhance our dedicated specialist recruitment team in support of our business requirements is a top priority.
In 2012, we expanded our capability in Africa in line with anticipated growth, with a particular emphasis on key hubs Employees in Kenya, Nigeria, Botswana and South Africa, to support our Africa 100 strategy in Consumer Banking and continued growth in Wholesale Banking.
89, 058 Customer-facing roles and relationship managers remain a high people priority for us as our business becomes increasingly aligned to the needs of our clients and customers.
To ensure we not only attract but also retain the best talent, we aim to nurture peoples careers by making relevant opportunities accessible and help 12 7 them to develop skills, knowledge and experience in different functions or geographies, or develop a world-class specialism.
nationalities In Consumer Banking, we have tailored our messaging and communications to give candidates better insights into careers in relationship management.
68 markets Group overview 23 1 A customer and employee at our Gulshan 12 branch in Dhaka.
We are the oldest foreign bank in Bangladesh and have operated there for over 100 years 2 We have extended exible working arrangements for employees to a further seven markets including Dubai Graduates are an important source of talent and in 2012, We continue t o promote skills-based volunteering as part of our we hired more than 450 on to our two agship programmes: global volunteering programme.
This encourages employees the International Graduate Programme and Consumer Bank to use their skills to support their local communities, whether Fast Track Programme.
We aim to have a positive impact through career guidance or interview training for women who on graduates career choices and direction by having want to return to the work place.
conversations with them focused on their strengths and Our Great Manager Programme remains the core development what is important tot hem.
In addition, we have We a re also expanding the ways in which we engage with delivered a number of bespoke initiatives, including a pilot candidates world-wide th rough launching our careers presence coaching framework for branch managers in Taiwan, Singapore on Facebook and Twitter.
By doing so, we have increased and China, encouraging the use of their strengths to create an awareness of available career opportunities and deepen ed environment in which their teams can perform better.
understanding of what it means to work for Standard Chartered.
Our development programmes are supported by a number of We h ave also strengthened our presence on LinkedIn, tools and processes including Learning@SCB a dedicated almost doubling our followers.
W e scored 22 per cent on the intranet site promoting self-driven learning.
The site houses a Talent Brand Index, LinkedIns measure of the strength of an wide range of learning tools and shares success stories from organisations brand as an employer.
This was more than double around our network.
that of our closest peers.
As a result of our strong employer th brand, we were ranked as the 11 most in demand employer Business growth through Diversity and Inclusion by Finance & Accounting professionals across the globe, in Diversity and Inclusion D&I is an intrinsic part of our Here LinkedIns inaugural Most InDemand Employers index.
Our philosophy goes beyond simply recognising and accepting the differences in others: we Developing our leadership capabilities continually work to ensure that those differences are valued We base the development of our people on their individual andr espected.
Through inclusive leadership we aim to enable strengths.
We encourage our people to identify and agree our people to have a voice and to contribute fully to our business with their managers, ways to grow their distinctive talents.
We pursue the goal of balanced leadership, re ecting the diversity of our client and customer base.
We are committed Strengthening our leadership capability remains a key business to supporting financial education and empowerment in the priority to ensure we have strong leaders today and in the future.
T o this end, we provide financial Each year, our top 200 leaders and the top 100 senior teams literacy training for those from disadvantaged communities.
have access to internal leadership coaches to support them through major changes.
We also provide opportunities for We place particular focus on gender, culture, nationality groups of existing and future senior leaders to work together and inclusion and we look at diversity in all of its facets.
This on executive leadership taskforces to collaborate in nding approach helps us attract, retain and develop the best talent, ways to make a positive difference to a global corporate issue.
getting the best out of the broadest spectrum of people in order to sustain strong business performance.
We recognise the need to understand and make the most of generational differences.
A n umber of pilot initiatives have In 2012, we helped create employment opportunities for people begun, including a reverse mentoring development programme with disabilities, through initiatives such as targeted recruitment in China for 20 Generation X mentees working and socialising career fairs in Ghana and Sri Lanka and recruitment drives in with their Generation Y mentors.
Our Visually Impaired Telesales New Business Initiative has also grown strongly, and we now have In 2012, we increased the number of leadership development nine teams of visually impaired employees working alongside opportunities provided to our global management by 26 per their sighted peers in eight markets, creating a positive impact cent.
W e also increased the inclusivity of our leadership on the lives of the people around them and contributing to development activity, particularly for women in middle enhanced sales growth.
We launched a unique immersion programme for our top 70 leaders to create a shared understanding of our most important future markets : China, India and Africa.
24 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 People continued Within the workplace, we continued to strengthen the reach Our culture and values of our employee networks with the launch of Lesbian, Gay, Our brand promise, Here for good, describes who we are, Bisexual and Transgender LGBT networks in Singapore, what we stand for and is what makes our culture so distinctive.
Hong Kong and the UK, ensuring a more inclusive environment That, and our commitment to live our values courageous, for our people.
responsive, international, creative and trustworthy underpins our thinking, decisions and all our activities.
This year, we extended our exible working arrangements to a further seven markets including China, India, Singapore and the In 2012, we provided support to our 16,300 managers to UAE.
We now provide consistent exible working and sabbatical enable them to have more effective, values-led performance opportunities in 10 markets.
conversations, reasserting our emphasis on how we achieve results, as well as what is achieved.
In Consumer Banking we As part of our approach, we have increas ed the reach and scope have enhanced the descriptive behaviours of our values to help of our career development programmes for women in middle illustrate how our employees can bring them to life and how best management roles, bene ting almost 450 of our female to continue doing even more in the future.
We strive to create a culture where people have a strong sense Through our people, we have ensured that disadvantaged of personal accountability and are able to make good personal members of the communities where we work have access to judg ments, based on our values.
During 2012, we strengthened relevant financial training and resources that enable them to this emphasis in the fide nitions of our values and will re ect them make a difference.
T his has included war widows in Sri Lanka, in our refreshed Group Code of Conduct in 2013. visually impaired students in Uganda, women entrepreneurs in Nigeria, as well as many others in Cameroon, Kenya, Nepal, We continued to embed Here for good in 2012 by improving Turkey and Zambia, and across our footprint.
employee s practical understanding of our brand promise and how to bring it to life every day, as well as embedding it within Building our employee engagement our leadership agenda.
The launch of an internal website on The pride, passion and commitment that our people contribute our brand story and the Chairmans Here for good Awards have to the Group are essential to our success.
We focus on delivering been key elements of this.
T he Awards recognis e exceptional an employee experience where our people feel strongly employees who role model the Groups values and demonstrate connected to the Group and are able to do what they do senior leaders commitment to embedding the brand promise.
We value our employees for who they are and what they bring to One way in which we enhance our employees experience the Group and recognise that different views create innovation.
12 is by conducting The Gallup Organisations Q employee We encourage our people to pursue their careers and personal engagement survey.
In 2012, 95 per cent of employees took aspirations and strive to create an open and collaborative the opportunity to have their say about what it feels like to work working environment in which they can maximise their talents.
We maintain an open and collaborative dialogue with our employees, through staff representatives, regular townhall This year we continued our progress towards worldclass forums and open question sessions with senior leaders as 12 engagement, increasing our Q Grand Mean score to 4.26 out of well as our annual employee engagement survey, in which a possible 5.
Some of our key markets, such as Ghana, Uganda participation has remained above 95 per cent for more than and Indonesia, made signi cant improvements in engagement.
In addition, providing worldclass training and Hong Kong has remained at a worldclass engagement level development opportunities remains central to our long-term for a fifth consecutive year.
Ghanas and Ugandas signi cant commitment to invest in our people.
improvement now place these markets at a worldclass level of engagement, along with China, Kenya, Korea, Taiwan Employee relations andT hailand.
We strive to ensure that our employment policies meet relevant A sustained focus on the role of the manager and developing social, statutory and regulatory conditions and practices team effectiveness has contributed to the Groups success across all our markets, and remain committed to building and in building engagement for our people on a global scale.
Our maintaining strong collective relationships and agreements.
external environment has posed a number of challenges and We have an employee relations presence providing regulatory uncertainties, but these strong survey results show the Group support in all our key markets, ensuring greater alignment of remains a great place to work.
our peoplegovernance policies whi le also promoting exible employment practices.
Creating a workplace that endorses Our sustain ed high performance was recognised by Gallup, diversity and recognises the generational differences of our which awarded us the 2012 Great Workplace Award for the growing multi-generational workforce remains a key priority second year running.
Almost 37 p er cent of our workforce is under 30.
Group overview 25 1 Supporting a customer at a branch in Lagos.
12 Nigeria remains one of our largest markets inAfrica 2 An employee in the dealing room of our Taipei of ce in Taiwan In 2012, we developed a more consistent global approach to Individual reward and incentives are linked directly to the the management of misconduct cases and improved employee performance and behaviour of the employee, the performance risk management through the launch of new consequence of the business and the interests of shareholders.
Our deferral management and case management system s. In addition, levels are meaningful and are designed to increase with seniority we have strengthened communications across our employee and the amount of variable compensation.
relations community, improving collaboration and good practice.
In 2012, we strengthened our focus on fair accountability, We have also continued to improve employee awareness and ensuring that behavioural and other relevant performance understanding of our Speaking Up policy, which enables staff to factors are taken into account when making individual con dentially report concerns about misconduct, as part of our remuneration decisions, and through senior management focus on ensuring fair and sustainable employee relations.
demonstrating and reinforcing exemplary governance and ethics across the Group.
We also continued to review our Performance and reward approach to sales incentives in line with Consumer Bankings Our One Bank approach to performance and reward customercentric approach.
ensures remuneration structures are balanced and re ect the risk pro le of particular businesses, by making use of all aspects For further information on our performance and reward policies, of peoplem anagement, rather than just remuneration.
The please refer to page 171 of our Directors remuneration report.
Groups performance and reward approach is designed to drive sustainable performance, by ensuring that reward programmes Summary support our business strategy and are both supportive of, and In 2012, our people strategy remained consistent and aligned to, the Financial Stability Boards principles on sound focused on enabling sustain ed performance through a remuneration practices.
This is reinforced by our distinctive compelling employee experience.
We have maintained culture, and the importance we place on our values as part employee engagement, considerably strengthened our of compensation decision-ma king.
leadership capability and agility through our worldclass leadership development programmes, and further embedded Our success depends upon the performance, behaviours and our values and Here for good through the introduction of the commitment of our employees.
Through our ePerformance Chairmans Awards.
system we have a disciplined and transparent approach to managing employee performance.
Every employee has a clear Focu sed intervention has enabled us to achieve real progress set of objectives, which include nonfinancial performance in tackling attrition in key markets, making a tangible difference measures based on our five values.
More broadly, our focus on improving our key people processes and systems continues Performance reviews and subsequent reward decisions are with the roll out of our one-stop people advice and guidance based not only on what employees have achieved, but also on portal in Africa, a comprehensive review of the front line incentive how they have achieved it.
In addition to a performance rating, programmes in Consumer Banking and the continued employees are awarded a rating on a scale of A to E based simpli cation of our bi annual performance review.
on how they have demonstrated the Groups values in their everyday working life.
The rating has an impact on the level of We believe that our focus on leadership and the agility of our reward an employee receives.
In 2012 those given an E values organisation, th e creation of a strengths-based organisation rating received no discretionary performance award.
he employee experience remain highly relevant given the andt turbulent external climate.
We recognise the critical role our Training to support managers in agreeing and reviewing values people managers play in creating a compelling and differentiated objectives and behaviours is provided ahead of the interim and employee experience and in building strong client and customer year-end reviews.
The values are also embedded in a number relationships.
We will continue to strengthen this pivotal role in of key processes and policies such as the Group Code of the coming year whilst developing our understanding of Conduct.
In addition, to reinforce the extent to which our generational differences within our growing multi-generational leaders demonstrate the values and culture, the Group has workforce, many of whom may become our leaders of the future.
We do not take our distinctive culture for granted and in 2013 we will continue to reinforce the brand promise as the Groups core purpose by helping our employees prove through their actions and decisions that we are Here for good.
