26 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Sustainability Our social purpose Sustainability and our business Our highlights in 2012 Banks have an essential role in a prosperous and healthy society.
We believe that by running our operations well, $21.1 billion of nancing provided to small and standing by our clients and customers and investing in mediumsized enterprises, an increase of 9.8 per cent the communities where we operate, we can be a powerful 6.4 million people estimated to have been impacted force for good.
by our lending to micro finance institutions since 2005 Our approach focuses on getting the basics of banking right, $3 billion growth in our global agribusiness portfolio making sure that we are nancially stable with strong governance and good sources of capital and liquidity, so that we can create $17 billion of Islamic nancing arranged for our clients value for our shareholders and society over the long run.
$9.4 billion provided and supported to the renewable Over the past decade, we have continuously delivered for energy and clean technology sector since 2007 ourclients and customers, shareholders and communities.
84,548 staff completed financial crime risk training From2002 to 2012, we increased lending from $57 billion to $289 billion, increased our corporate tax contribution almost 9 per cent reduction in customer complaints in five-fold and tripled our staff to over 89,000.
ConsumerB anking We have three key sustainability priorities: contributing to 5 per cent reduction in paper consumption per full sustainable economic growth, being a responsible company timeemployee and investing incommunities.
22,000 suppliers provided with guidelines on our Contributing to sustainable economic growth environmental and social standards through our SupplierCharter By providing finance ef ciently and responsibly, we contribute to sustainable economic growth and job creation.
We are Exceeded 86,300 days volunteered by our staff, committed to supporting our clients and customers helping an increase of 31 per cent businesses to set up, expand and trade across borders, helping Raised $8 million for Seeing is Believing, reaching people to buy homes and grow their wealth for the future.
a cumulative total of more than $55 million raised Widening access to finance is a core part of our sustainability since2 003 strategy, as is our commitment to providing finance that supports sustainable development in our communities.
Over 47,000 girls empowered through Goal since 2006 Sustainable finance Our main impact on people and the environment is through the Our priorities in 2013 business activities we finance.
We work closely with our clients and customers to manage potential environmental and social Roll out our revised Code of Conduct risks associated with our nancing decisions and to identify Strengthen our financial crime intelligence capabilities opportunities to finance clean technologies.
and training resources Our position statements underpin our approach to Roll out and adopt our updated position statements environmental and social E&S risk management.
In 2012, we continued to review our position statements, aligning with the Continue to improve our value proposition for our SME most recent international standards, including the International customers, offering additional products and services Finance Corporation IFC Performance Standards.
In addition, Improve access to finance by expanding our Islamic we extended the application of the position statements to small Banking products to Africa and medium-sized enterprises SMEs with the introduction of our SME Sustainable Finance Framework, which ensures that Develop our future leaders by providing additional all discretionary SME lending across our markets is subject to learning opportunities rigorous E&S due diligence.
Promote our target to reduce paper usage to 10kg per fulltime employee by 2020 Increase our employee volunteering to 90,000 days Introduce the Seeing is Believing innovation fund, supporting the development of new solutions to tackle avoidable blindness Revise and align our financial education curriculum globally Group overview 27 1 A Standard Chartered volunteer teaches 1 2 financial literacy to a child in Singapore 2 Standard Chartered supports businesses, economies and communities by nancing global trade We are committed to promoting the development of renewable We continue to deepen our product offering for clients and energy and clean technology.
In 2012, we provided and customers seeking nancing consistent with Islamic principles.
supported nancing of $984 million across the sector including Through our dedicated Islamic Banking brand, Standard wind, solar, geothermal and bio fuels.
Since 200 7, we have Chartered Saadiq, we have arranged in excess of $73 billion in provided and supported more than $9.4 billion, meeting our Islamic nancing since 2004.
In 2012, we provided nancing of Clinton Global Initiative CGI pledge to provide $8 billion to $17 billion, expanded Islamic nancing solutions for SMEs and $10 billion for the sector by 2012. launched a comprehensive suite of Islamic financial products for our Private Bank clients.
Access to finance We use our balance sheet to stand by our clients and customers Being a responsible company through good times and bad.
The lending we provide to people We want to deliver long-term value for our shareholders and businesses helps to support job creation and economic and society.
This means having the right culture, structures development across our markets.
Enabling international trade andp rocesses in place to ensure that we practise strong to ourish is a key sustainable business priority for Standard governance, serve our clients and customers well and provide Chartered.
We are also committed to extending access to agreat workplace for our people.
Doing what we can to combat finance for individuals and small businesses that have financial crime and protect the environment is also crucial to traditionally been underserved by financial institutions.
As one of the worlds leading trade banks, we have Governance continuously supported trade over the past decade, staying Good governance contributes to the long-term success of open for business throughout the financial crisis.
We are present a company, creating trust and engagement between the in some of the worlds fastest-growing markets, and ideally company and its stakeholders.
The right culture, behaviour placed to support new trade corridors as they emerge.
In 2012, and values need tobeadopted by the Board and actively lived we maintained our position as the secondlargest trade finance and promoted bytheGroup Chief Executive and all levels of bank globally.
However, it cannot end there.
It needs to SMEs are key drivers of job creation and growth across our permeate the organisation at every level.
In 2012, we increased lending to SMEs by 9.8 per cent embed E&S governance within ourbusiness.
to $21.1 billion, hired 7 per cent more relationship managers to support our customers and continued to expand our product Financial crime offering and service guarantees.
We continually work to prevent our products and services from being used for criminal nancing activity.
In 2012, we completed We remain committed to micro finance as a means of lifting a Group-wide financial crime risk transformation programme people out of poverty.
Since 2005, we have provided more launched in 2011.
We introduced regional hubs to enhance than $970 million to Micro finance Institutions MFIs across our regional and country monitoring, revised customer due diligence footprint, with lending of $120 million to 19 MFIs in 2012.
Through requirements in Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking and this nancing, our MFI partners have reached approximately strengthened oversight by changing the Group Financial Crime 6.4 million individuals.
Risk Committees reporting line from the Group Operational Risk With appropriate access to finance, the agricultural sector in Committee to the Group Risk Committee, amore senior forum.
emerging economies can make a signi cant contribution to global food security and local economic development.
In 2012, we grew our agribusiness portfolio by $3 billion, supporting the sectors development across our footprint.
28 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Sustainability continued Responsible selling and marketing Our social and economic impact Responsible selling and marketing is integral to how we do business.
In Consumer Banking, our Customer Charter outlines inBangladesh our commitment to treat customers fairly at all times.
In 2012, we continued to embed training on responsible selling to staff across Consumer Banking and conducted compliance reviews of our investment product approvals, marketing materials and complaints handling.
Our rate of customer complaints decreased by 9 per cent from 2011 to 2012.
In Wholesale Banking, treating customers fairly is a requirement of our Code of Conduct and our Financial Markets Dealers Code of Conduct.
In 2012, we regularly assessed our policies, procedures and controls against applicable regulatory guidelines and industry best practice.
People and values Our distinctive culture and values guide the way we do business, allowing us to deliver on our Here for good brand promise.
We In 2012, we commissioned our third independent study encourage a collaborative leadership culture that values diversity to measure our socio-economic impact this time in and promotes inclusion.
We focus on providing our people with Bangladesh.
Bangladesh has grown rapidly in the last learning and development opportunities so that they can grow decade and as the oldest foreign bank in the country, personally and professionally.
In 2012, 92 per cent of our staff we have been operating there for more than 100 years.
received training including online and face-to-face training.
The study illustrates that the banking sector plays a key role in the development and growth of national economies.
For example, Environment through direct, indirect and induced impact, for every one job at We consider the environmental challenges across the countries Standard Chartered Bangladesh, 545 jobs are supported in the where we operate and proactively manage the direct impact of local economy.
In 2012, we improved the energy ef ciency of The study, conducted by Professor Ethan Kapstein of Georgetown our of ces and branches by 7 per cent and decreased our paper University, also shows that through direct, indirect and induced consumption by 5 per cent per full time employee FTE.
We impact, we support 1.5 per cent of Bangladeshs GDP and are continue to stretch our commitments, and set a new target to oneof the countrys most important tax payers.
We contribute reduce paper consumption to 10 kg per FTE by 2020. to13.2 per cent of total Bangladesh international trade through trade finance, loans in US dollars and mobilising offshore finance Suppliers for ourclients.
Through our sourcing and procurement policies, we aim to There will always be things that we can do better.
This study has support local business in our markets.
In 2012, we introduced helped us to understand how we can further enhance our social the Standard Chartered Supplier Charter, which sets out the and economic contribution in Bangladesh.
For example, the report environmental and social standards we expect of our 26,000 reveals that our largest single value added impact comes from our suppliers.
We shared the Charter with almost 90 per cent of lending to SMEs.
Today, nearly 80 per cent of all industrial entities in Bangladesh are SMEs.
They are also responsible for one-quarter our suppliers in 2012, reinforcing the consistent standards of the nations workers.
With this in mind, one of our priorities in and values we expect across all of our markets.
Bangladesh will be to further increase our engagement in this sector.
Our other independent studies conducted in 2010 look at our social and economic impact in Ghana and Indonesia.
Group overview 29 1 Employees at Soul Mate, a hair care 12 manufacturer in Lagos and an SME client ofStandard Chartered 2 Standard Chartered partnered with Liverpool Football Club to create The Perfect Match, raising funds to tackle avoidable blindness through Seeing is Believing Investing in communities Our sustainability as a business is closely intertwined with the Our performance health and prosperity of the communities where we operate.
We have ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders including Through employee volunteering and community programmes, non-governmental organisations, industry bodies, we work with partners to deliver initiatives that promote positive governments, regulators and socially responsible investors.
social and economic outcomes for people in our markets.
Our sustainability performance is also evaluated by trade publications, ratings agencies and indices specialised in the Employee volunteering socially responsible investment market.
We actively encourage our staff to volunteer their time and PEOPLE core skills to bene t their local communities.
Each employee is entitled to three days of paid volunteering leave per year.
PLANET In 2012, we set a record with employee volunteering reaching PROFIT 86,300 days, an increase of 31 per cent from 2011 and exceeding our target of 70,000 days.
In 2012, we were proud to be named Sustainable Global Bank of the Year by the Financial Times and the International Finance Community programmes Corporation recognising our commitment to embedding Seeing is Believing is our global campaign to tackle avoidable sustainability across ourbusiness.
From 2003 to 2012, we impacted over 31 million people.
In 2012, we reached a new fundraising milestone, at over $55 million, passing the half-way mark towards our goal of raising $100 million by 2020.
We also launched six new For the third year running, we were included in the Dow Jones comprehensive eye-care projects across eight countries.
Sustainability Index DJSI World Index and European Index.
TheD JSI evaluators noted our strong performance in stakeholder HIV and AIDS remain a serious challenge in many of the markets engagement, brand management, financial inclusion and climate where we operate, impacting our staff, their families and the change strategy.
In 2012, we furthered our commitment to support awareness of HIV and AIDS through our workplace education programme, Living with HIV.
We revised our comprehensive training toolkit to provide uptodate information and resources to our employee and community partners.
We are listed in the FTSE4Good index, which has been designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally In many countries across our footprint, opportunities for young recognised corporate responsibility standards.
people are constrained by persistent unemployment, continued gender inequality and limited access to education.
Goal, our global youth development programme, combines sports with life skillsand financial literacy training to empower adolescent girls.
We are a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, which From 2006 to 2012, Goal reached more than 47,000 girls in six hasrecognised our achievements in managing our environmental countries.
In 2012, we piloted the inclusion of boys to promote impact.
In 2012, we received a score in the top 10 per cent of engagement on gender equality.
30 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review India Standard Chartered is Indias largest international bank with 99 branches across 42 cities Operating and financial review 31 The Group in 2012 32 Consumer Banking 38 Wholesale Banking 46
