16 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Business environment Divided, disconnected, but growing 2012 was a year of contrasts.
As forecast at the start of The world still faces considerable challenges in 2013, given scal the year, a fragile West contrasted with a resilient East.
tightening in the US, deep-rooted problems in the euro area, The US economy, still the worlds largest, showed signs rebalancing and adjustment challenges in China, the ambitious of a gradual recovery from the 2008-09 recession: but reform agenda facing India and many other economies, plus a growth remained below par a t 2.2 per cent.
The euro area further possible energy shock from events in the Middle East.
was much weaker, contracting 0.4 per cent, as scal These downside risks need to be taken seriously.
And, yet, there tightening, deleveraging by banks and households and are enough positives particularly in the emerging markets uncertainties around the future of the common currency which should enable the global economy to rebound after two hurt business and consumer sentiment.
Indeed, the dynamism in the East has enabled Standard Chartereds biggest markets remained resilient the world economy to continue growing even through the Asian economies expanded by 6.
2 per cent, Africa by financial crisis from $32trillion in 2000, the size of the global 4.9 per cent and the Middle East by 3.5 per cent.
The economy expanded to just under $62trillion at the start of the continued weakness in Europe meant the world economy financial crisis, and further to an estimated $72trillion by the end decelerated for the second consecutive year, growing of 2012.
While some of this growth is a result of in ation, the bulk 2.5 per cent, compared with 3.1 per cent in 2011. of it is real growth, led by the emerging economies.
This divergence in economic performance between the The key area of weakness remains Europe, where recession is West and the East has been a feature of the global economy likely to continue into 2013 as a result of the austerity measures for more than a decade, driven largely by the dramatic rise of implemented by governments.
However, actions taken by the China and other emerging markets.
But the diverging trend European Central Bank ECB in 2012 have signi cantly curtailed has accelerated since the financial crisis as consumers in the downside risks and boosted investor sentiment, supporting the West pared back debt while companies curtailed investments, southern periphery by ending the acute phase of the crisis, causing a sharp slowdown in the developed economies.
The albeit that it has just moved into a chronic phase.
As a result, Wests retrenchment has impacted emerging markets, including any recovery by the end of this year is likely to be weak at best.
those in Standard Chartereds footprint across Asia, Africa and Only a true scal, banking and political union is likely to put the the Middle East, as exports to the US and Europe slowed.
euro area back on a stable growth path, but such a far-reaching Meanwhile, the euro a rea crisis led European banks to repatriate integration would require a European Union treaty change which funds from the emerging markets.
However, a combination of is unlikely before 2014, at the earliest, given the parliamentary rising domestic demand by an ever-expanding middle class, elections due in Germany later this year.
Meanwhile, the growing intra-regional trade and investment ows, innovation ECB and Germany will need to continue with their support and infrastructure spending across the emerging markets have to the periphery.
resulted in Standard Chartereds markets becoming the growth engines that power the global economy.
Asia Given the weakness in the West, Asia will continue to be the 2013 outlook biggest driver of global growth, cementing the shift in the This positive trend in our markets is likely to continue through balance of economic power from the West to the East.
We 2013 into the following years.
Global growth is expected to expect Asian economies to expand around 6.7 per cent in 2013. accelerate to 2.9 per cent in 2013, led by the outperformance As anticipated, China has avoided a hard landing and 2013 is of the emerging markets and a rebound in growth in China likely to be the year when China settles into a steadier and more following two slower years.
Growth worldwide is already getting sustainable growth path, at around 8.0 per cent, after two years an added impetus from extremely easy money policies in the of slowdown.
Greater stability in China and a steady but not developed economies and monetary conditions are likely to spectacular US recovery is likely to steer the rest of Asia, remain slack for at least two more years.
particularly the north East Asian economies of South Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong, to a faster pace of growth.
There is a possibility that world growth in 2013 could exceed expectations if the US Congress decides to smooth out tax increases and spending cuts over successive years and to raise the overall government debt ceiling to accommodate more borrowing.
Such an agreement, combined with ultra-low interest rates and cheaper energy thanks to the shale oil and gas boom, could lead to a pick-up in US consumer sentiment, sustain a recovery in housing demand and boost investment spending, especially in the second half of the year.
Group overview 17 This section, Divided, disconnected, but growing, was written by Standard Chartereds Research team.
Fundamentals across Asia remain strong, especially when Economic growth in key markets compared with the West.
Companies have stronger balance 1 1 Real GDP growth rate in % 2012e 2013f sheets and governments sound scal and external reserves.
These strong underpinnings the result of wide-ranging 2.2 US reforms in the 1990s and early 2000s have helped the region 2.3 0.4 Euro area remain resilient in the face of the slowdown in the West, having 0.2 delivered spectacular performance over the past 10 t o 15 years.
1.9 Japan 1.7 Now there is a need to unleash a new wave of economic reforms 7.7 China that will usher in new investments into hard infrastructure such 8.3 2 5.2 India as roads, ports, power plants and help improve the soft 6.0 infrastructure such as institutions, education, healthcare and 2.0 South Korea 3.0 social security networks.
Urbanisation will likely pick up again 1.5 Hong Kong in China.
These reforms have the potential to lift the domestic- 3.4 1.3 Taiwan driven, middle and lower-income economies such as China, 3.9 India and Indonesia up the value curve.
Reforms will also enable 1.3 Singapore 3.2 the more developed and typically more open economies 6.2 Indonesia such as Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea to 6.5 5.6 Malaysia nd new sources of growth to replace the slowdown in 4.7 Western consumption.
6.4 Thailand 4.0 As in recent years, China will remain a key determinant for 5.0 Vietnam 5.5 economic prospects in Standard Chartereds markets in 6.6 The Philippines Asia and elsewhere.
Chinas economy is moving from strong, 5.8 2 6.1 Bangladesh unbalanced growth to steadier, more sustainable growth.
This 6.3 takes considerable time and will not be without challenges, given 6.8 Sri Lanka 7.2 domestic imbalances.
We anticipate growth at around 8.3 per 3.4 UAE cent for 2013, after slowing from 10 per cent-plus levels in the 3.5 5.9 Qatar 2000s to 7.7 per cent in 2012.
The economies of Taiwan, Hong 4.5 Kong and South Korea should bene t, with growth in the three 3.9 Bahrain 3.5 north East Asian economies anticipated in the 3.0-4.0 per cent 4.5 Saudi Arabia range in 2013.
There may be more focus on both Greater China 4.0 2 2.2 Egypt as an economic region and on the growth of the renminbi RMB 3.0 2 market as the year progresses and the currency becomes 3.7 Pakistan 4.0 increasingly internationalised.
The private sector worldwide is Nigeria 6.9 looking increasingly to use the RMB for trade and investment 6.6 2.4 South Africa purposes, despite its lack of convertibility, as our recent survey 2.8 of international companies found.
7.8 Ghana 8.2 5.1 Kenya 5.5 6.5 Tanzania 6.8 5.1 Uganda 5.3 7.0 Zambia 7.4 6.8 Angola 7.4 3.8 Botswana 4.1 1 Standard Chartered estimates for 2012 2012e and forecasts for 2013 2013f are based on Standard Chartered Economics Weekly, published on 28 February 2013 2 Indias financial year starts in April while the financial years of Bangladesh, Pakistan and Egypt start in July 18 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Business environment continued Elsewhere in Asia, South Asia and ASEAN the Association of South East Asian Nations are two regions to focus on, not just 2012 GDP growth slowed in key markets in 2013 but longer-term, given their large populations, strong economic growth and regional free-trade agreements.
In South China South Korea Asia, the two longer-term themes are growth in the domestic market across the region, given that onefifth of the worlds population lives there, and the potential for India to open up.
We are positive on prospects for Bangladesh and India, 7.
0% despite near-term challenges, expecting growth in excess of 2011: 9.2% 2011: 3.6% 6.0 per cent in both in 2013, with India picking up pace after a sharp slowdown in the past couple of years.
Economic reforms 1 aimed at removing infrastructure bottlenecks and attracting Indonesia India overseas investments, together with institutional reforms to tackle corruption and improve public governance, remain at the top of the agenda across South Asia.
2% ASEAN is moving apace to become a common market as 2011: 6.5% 2011: 6.5% planned b y 2015, when import tariffs in most countries will be eliminated and barriers to the ow of capital and professionals will be removed.
This regional integration augurs well for both Hong Kong Singapore domestic and international businesses as companies get the bene ts of scale of a larger market that rivals the size of India.
In 2013, we are especially optimistic about Indonesia and the 1.
3% Philippines, where we see growth above 10-year averages, driven largely by domestic consumption and regional trade.
2011: 5.0% 2011: 5.3% New markets, such as Myanmar, also have potential.
UAE Nigeria Africa and the Middle East Across sub-Saharan Africa, the picture is divided.
The regions overall growth rate continues to be heavily in uenced by its major economies, some of which are currently facing challenges, as 3.
4% 6.9 % seen in South Africa and Nigeria which together account for over half the regions gross domestic product.
Yet, growth in 2011: 4.2% 2011: 7.2% 2013 is estimated at a robust 5 per cent across the region, driven by a commodities boom that is fuelling strong domestic 1 Indias financial year starts in April demand and infrastructure spending, although in ation remains a challenge in several economies.
New oil and gas exploration will drive economic activity, especially off the coast of East Africa, while mining activity will continue to play an important role in other parts as Chinas recovery renews demand for resources.
Given the nature of Africas growing ties with China whether through increased trade, investment or lending Africa is likely to be an ideal candidate for more rapid adoption of the RMB in trade settlement in the years ahead.
Group overview 19 A number of African economies are in what we call the Excessive and unco-ordinated financial regulation is another 7p er cent club.
Economies that grow at 7 per cent per concern.
Although new proposals for Basel III liquidity standards annum in real terms roughly double in size over the course for banks seem a little less stringent positively a co-ordinated of a decade.
In 2013, we forecast growth above 7 per cent in approach towards global financial regulation remains work in Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Gambia, progress, leaving scope for regulatory arbitrage and fuelling the Ghana, Mozambique, Sierra Leone and Zambia and in three growth of the shadow banking industry.
All these factors add Asian economies China, Mongolia and Sri Lanka.
A number to future challenges for emerging market policymakers.
of countries will just miss 7 per cent this year but have the Political uncertainties in the Middle East as well as growing potential to exceed it in the future given new reforms and a disputes surrounding the South China Sea could provide stronger global backdrop.
These include India, Indonesia, other potential ashpoints during the year.
However, diplomatic Bangladesh, Nigeria and Tanzania, while other emerging solutions are likely to be preferred by the new sets of leadership countries, such as the Philippines, also look promising.
recently assuming power in Beijing, Tokyo and Seoul as they The Middle East, meanwhile, remains divided and disconnected, pursue their mandates of achieving a sustainable economic with the energy exporting countries in the Gulf Cooperation growth for their populations.
Council GCC faring better than the rest of region, bolstered by high oil prices.
In 2013, economic growth is likely to pick Conclusion up across the region to around 3.8 per cent, with most of the The key message for 2013, therefore, is that although the world additional growth coming from non-GCC countries partly remains divided, with emerging economies in better shape, and because these economies will be growing from a much lower disconnected, with rising disparities across regions and within base.
They will also be helped by improvement in con dence countries, it is still likely to grow at a slightly faster pace than last as political transition gains traction, though challenges year, led by Standard Chartereds markets across Asia, Africa there remain.
There could be further upsides towards the latter half of the year if the US gets its scal house in order early Growth in the GCC is likely to stay strong, although slightly below enough and European economies stabilise.
More broadly, the 2012 levels, with oil prices staying comfortably above budget seismic shift in the world economy that began more than a breakeven prices.
High oil prices bode well for government decade ago remains in full swing and the balance of power savings and also for investment in key infrastructure projects, will continue to tilt towards the East.
particularly in Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi and Qatar.
Policy challenges and other risks A possible revival of the euro area uncertainties and political impasse over the US scal situation remain the worlds biggest risks in the coming year.
However, in many of Standard Chartereds markets, it may be in ation that turns out to be one of the biggest challenges.
With interest rates set to stay low in the West for some time and central banks printing unprecedented amounts of money, investors are likely to continue to seek higher yield or returns, boosting capital ows into emerging economies.
Since many of these economies do not have deep enough capital markets to absorb the in ows, this excessive liquidity could lead to higher in ation and or asset bubbles, posing challenges to policymakers.
As a result, 2013 will see divergent monetary policy across the region.
Some countries will still be easing to support growth, while others are likely to tighten a s the year progresses t o curb future in ation.
