16 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Mitigation People: Our approach to remuneration aims to ensure that high calibre executives are attracted and retained.
The Group seeks to develop Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to attract, retain individuals through talent management and succession planning.
and motivate people across all levels of the business.
Product and service quality: The protection of the Carpetright brand and position in its core markets will be sustained by unique and extensive The Carpetright name is a key asset of the business and, as the product and service offerings in our stores.
Team members largest operator in its markets, expectations of the Group are and fitters training is delivered continually with fitters being high.
Failure to provide high quality products and services independently assessed.
could lead to a loss of trust and confidence, and damage the Groups reputation and brand.
This could result in a decline in the customer base and affect our ability to recruit good people.
IT systems, supply chain and business continuity: Business continuity plans have been documented and arrangements made to mitigate significant risks arising.
The Carpetright is dependent on the reliability and capability of systems implemented within the UK and the Republic of Ireland key information systems and technology.
A major incident are mirrored in a separate location.
Plans are in place to replicate or sustained performance problems with regard to store, this in the remaining European businesses by the end of 2012. logistics, multi-channel or head office systems could constitute a significant threat to the business, at least in the short term.
Compliance: The Group has developed clear policies on compliance and it is the Groups Legal Directors responsibility to identify prospective The Group risks incurring penalties or punitive damages changes to laws and regulations and to bring these to the arising from failure to comply with legislative or regulatory attention of the relevant team members.
Finance and Treasury: The Group frequently reviews its financial position to ensure that its funding requirements are being met.
Bank covenant The Group risks exposure to exchange rate, interest rate, tests are regularly monitored.
Rolling cash flow forecasts are liquidity and credit risks having an adverse or unexpected produced weekly.
impact on results, funding requirements or purchasing ability.
People Engagement The Group employs over 3,000 people There are a number of communication channels in place to help and is proud of being regarded as a people develop their knowledge of, and enhance their involvement responsible and respected employer.
These channels include surveys, conferences, management briefings, weekly briefings broadcast to stores and Equal opportunities offices, and other less formal communications.
Additionally, The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture all annual results and interim management statements are made that is free from discrimination and harassment, and will not permit available through the intranet.
Directors and senior management or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Group operates a regularly visit stores and discuss matters of current interest and whistleblowing hotline through a third party provider enabling concern with team members.
matters of concern to be raised with the Company on a named or anonymous basis.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to Share ownership applications for employment when these are received from disabled Team members have an opportunity to invest in the Companys people.
Should an individual become disabled while working for shares through two all-employee share schemes, namely an the Company, efforts are made to continue their employment and All Employee Share Ownership Plan and a Savings Related Share retraining is provided, if necessary.
Approximately 492 team members participate in these schemes.
Training and development Our training and development programmes are focused on giving our people the skills they need to carry out their jobs and in due course to move up to new roles, enabling them to develop their careers and ensuring that there is a pipeline of talent within the Group.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Financial Operational Risks Risks
