Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 17 Corporate responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility CR policy is designed to meet the long-term expectations of our customers and other stakeholders and ensure the sustainable development of our business.
It is clear that protecting the environment and running our business We have continued to roll out our store manager training ethically makes good commercial sense and, apart from improving programme, with a further 72 managers completing the training the environment for both our team members and our customers, this year, resulting in 240 managers who remain in the business, will also help us to enhance shareholder returns.
Neil Page currently including senior retail management, having passed the course.
reports to the Board on CR matters and co-ordinates the Groups CR Team member stability is important to us as a measure of employee policies and activities.
He is supported by a team providing support loyalty and satisfaction and we track retention rates continually.
and advice to develop the businesss policies and approach.
With effect from 1 July 2012 a new board committee is being created, Sourcing great products the Customer and Corporate Responsibility Committee, which will We are committed to buying our products from suppliers who oversee, amongst other matters, the Groups CR activities.
Our aims are to ensure suppliers are subject be chaired by Sandra Turner and the members of the Committee will to vetting for satisfactory ethics and procedures, to insist our supply be Baroness Noakes, David Clifford, Darren Shapland, Martin Harris chain partners sign up to the Carpetright Codes of Conduct, and and Claire Balmforth.
Martin Harris will take over responsibility for to ensure we act in a responsible and ethical manner.
reporting to the Board and co-ordinating the Groups CR activities All floorcoverings suppliers to our businesses both in the UK and from 1 July 2012. in the Rest of Europe have signed up to compliance with our We have continued developing and improving policies to cover Ethical and Environmental policies.
We also have a timber policy the following: to ensure all timber floor covering products are manufactured from sustainable resources.
Providing excellent service Our aim is to provide outstanding customer service by selling a Creating a safe place to work and shop comprehensive range of flooring products at the keenest prices, We are committed to achieving high standards of health and safety supported by dedicated store team members and, where required, in all operational areas.
by organising a high quality fitting service.
A monthly health and safety bulletin is now issued to all stores, We have introduced post-sales calls to customers, allowing and quarterly Health and Safety Committee meetings have been immediate feedback thereby ensuring that any issues can be introduced into the Netherlands and Belgium.
There has been a immediately addressed by the relevant store.
decrease in the overall level of accidents in the UK to 110 2011: 169.
Pleasingly, the number of reportable accidents decreased in the Our mobile fitter training pods enable us to offer all our period to 12 2011: 17, and there were 7 2011: 4 accidents in recommended fitters access to the Flooring Industry Trade the Rest of Europe which would have been reportable had they Association FITA assessment and additional training where occurred in the UK.
required to meet FITAs exacting standards.
We only recommend fitters who have attained FITA qualifications, 240 of whom attended We remain committed to eliminating all heavy manual handling the relevant carpet fitting assessment course in the past 12 months.
Wherever possible, each of our branches has a Additionally, in the year, 192 registered fitters have successfully pedestrian operated boom truck to unload and move carpet and completed their vinyl fitting assessment.
A subfloor preparation vinyl deliveries, and where it has not been possible to provide a and door trimming course was introduced to the fitter training truck we have arranged a series of nearby buddy branches to accept academy in March 2011, and so far 362 registered fitters have been deliveries.
55 new lifting devices to lift carpet onto roll stock stands assessed.
In October 2012 a further course was introduced for fitting were delivered during the year to eliminate this element of manual laminated floorcoverings and, as at 28 April 2012, 75 fitters have handling.
As at 28 April 2012 there were 165 lifting devices in stores.
Respect for the environment We have introduced an Academy to train our new estimators and, We are committed to taking steps to control and minimise any to date, 81 have successfully passed through it.
damage our operations may cause to the environment through manufacturing processes, transport, energy usage and packaging.
Developing committed people In particular we are aware of the issue of climate change and we As at 28 April 2012 we employed 3,384 team members in stores, want to understand and minimise our carbon emissions.
depots and offices throughout the UK and the Rest of Europe.
Our aims are to ensure everyone has the appropriate skills and knowledge: to offer our people a good range of incentives and benefits and to value and promote the diversity of our workforce.
uk 18 Corporate responsibility continued Where possible we re-use cardboard tubes.
Sheet polythene We are trialling different forms of energy-efficient lighting, and wrapping and cardboard tubes that are not re-used but are delivered where a store undergoes a full refurbishment, it is the intention within the UK from Harris House our national Central Support to install such lighting at that location.
Office, warehouse and cutting facility are recycled.
No waste Nearly 300 Automatic Meter Reading AMR electricity meters produced from Harris House is sent to landfill: general rubbish have been installed which provide daily meter reading data and being compacted and incinerated to produce energy.
allows us to target any high-consumption locations, understand We make our own cardboard tubes on site, thereby reducing the why the consumption is higher than anticipated and manage our cost of delivery of what is, essentially, air in the centre of the tubes.
3 We were able to reduce our water consumption by 10,478m during A similar exercise is being undertaken in relation to the installation 3 the year, which is in addition to the 50,000m reduction reported of gas AMR meters, although the benefits of such meters are in 2010 11.
This has been achieved through improved analysis of unlikely to be seen until following the winter of 2012 13 when consumption data and identification of any high-use locations.
our consumption for heating is at its highest.
Our key measures within CR are: Key Initiative Indicator 2012 2011 Progress 1 Providing Excellent Service Complaints per 1m of sales in 11.3 12.1 Improvement by 6.1%.
We the UK attribute much of this improvement to the introduction of after-sales calls to customers.
Complaints per 1m of sales in the 3.7 Not In the Netherlands there has been Rest of Europe available an improvement to 4.7 complaints per 1m of sales 2011: 9.4.
Developing Committed People % of team members with 3 years 69% 71% 2ppt decline.
service in the UK % of team members with 3 years 78% N A Figures for 2011 are not available.
service in the Rest of Europe No.
of UK team members 70 48 An increasing number of people completing our store management have completed the course.
development training in the period No.
of accidents in the UK 110 169 Creating a Safe Place to Reduction of 36% of all Work and Shop accidents reported.
of accidents in the Rest of Europe 17 N A Figures for 2011 are not available.
of reportable accidents in the UK 12 17 Reduction of 29%.
of accidents in the Rest of Europe A disappointing increase, although which would have been reportable if no trend can be identified as to any they occurred in the UK underlying cause.
3 4 Respect for the Environment Energy efficiency kWh sq m 216.2 240.7 The improvement is principally 2 of sales space due to a mild winter in 2011 12.
Energy efficiency km litre 3.52 3.41 2.6% improvement in efficiency.
4 of delivery fleet 4 Recycling in tonnes 2,366 1,951 21% increase in recycling.
Excludes internet sales but includes the Republic of Ireland.
Figures are for the UK only.
2011 figure is actual and has been restated from estimated figure 239.3 kWh sq m. 3.
Based on estimated meter readings.
Figures are for UK and Republic of Ireland only.
Donations Charitable donations of 175,000 2011: 23,500 were made during the year.
No political donations were made 2011: nil.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2012
