Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Group is also exposed to potential margin calls from clearing CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY houses and correspondent clearers, both in the UK and US.
Introduction In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the firm has recourse Throughout the reporting period the Company continued to to existing global cash resources, in addition to which it could provide support for the efficient operation of the global capital draw down on a 115m committed revolving credit line as markets, which helped to ensure that its clients were able to additional contingency funding.
This facility remained undrawn continue to achieve their own business objectives, and to throughout 2012. meet expectations of their own shareholders and their other stakeholders.
Further details of the Groups borrowings and cash are provided in Notes 23, 27 and 33.
The role of interdealer brokers, such as Tullett Prebon, in successfully ensuring liquidity in the capital markets, especially at Other Financial Risks times of market stress, has been increasingly recognised by The nature and scope of the Groups operations mean that it is organisations involved in the public policy response to the financial exposed to a number of other financial risks including interest crisis.
This has provided the opportunity for the Company, both rate risk, currency risk, taxation risk, and pension obligation risk.
through its professional bodies in the United Kingdom and the USA, and where appropriate directly, to engage with law makers Interest rate risk and official bodies to seek to ensure new regulations will not harm The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its cash deposits and the efficient functioning of the capital markets which are in some on its borrowings under bank facilities.
The Eurobond debt pays measure dependent on intermediation provided by companies fixed sterling interest.
Cash deposits are typically held at maturities such as Tullett Prebon.
of less than three months, and the sterling interest rate exposure is partially hedged by rolling sterling term loans under the bank By successfully remaining a critical part of the global capital facility for similar short term periods.
markets infrastructure, Tullett Prebon is best able to maximise returns to shareholders over the medium to long term.
As a publicly The GTRC periodically considers the Groups exposure to interest listed company Tullett Prebon continues to enjoy a positive record rate volatility.
in creating value for both institutional and individual investors.
Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in interest rates is In turn this allows the Company to continue making a significant set out in Note 27. contribution to society through social transfer payments in the form of tax remittances.
Currency risk The Group trades in a number of currencies around the world, but The Company intends that its high standards of governance and reports its results in sterling.
The Group therefore has translation business ethics contribute to the wider social good through the exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements in these example it sets and the high standards it maintains, both in the currencies, principally the US dollar and the Euro, and transaction United Kingdom and in all other geographies where the Company exposure within individual operations which undertake is present, complying with all laws and regulations, trading fairly, transactions in one currency and report in another.
and only participating in legitimate trading activities permitted by its various licences.
Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in foreign currency exchange rates is set out in Note 27.
Governance Responsibility for social, ethical and environmental matters rests Taxation risk with the Board, and is included in its Terms of Reference.
The Chief The risk of financial loss or misstatement as a result of nonExecutive is the Board member responsible for Corporate and Social compliance with regulations relating to direct, indirect or employee Responsibility CSR.
The Group employs experienced qualified staff in key jurisdictions to manage this risk and in addition uses professional The Companys CSR Governance Committee, which was advisers, as appropriate.
established in 2009 in recognition of the increasing importance of the CSR agenda and which comprises all members of the Pension obligation risk Companys Executive Committee, oversaw and helped refine The risk that the Group is required, in the short and medium term, further the CSR activities of the Company in 2012.
This Committee to fund a deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
and its members in their executive roles will continue to oversee and guide the CSR activities of the Company, reflecting the continued importance the Company places on this broad and visible area of responsibility.
21 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review continued Policies and ethical issues Employees The Board expects the Company to maintain high standards of Attracting and retaining the best brokers, professional and other governance and of ethical behaviour throughout the business, support staff, and management, remains crucial to the Companys and policies and procedures exist to ensure employees at all ongoing success.
Management recognises that the Companys levels maintain the standards that are set and which are expected ability to maximise returns to shareholders is dependent on of them.
employing and retaining the best staff in all the geographies in which it operates.
The Company is committed to developing and Equal opportunities motivating its staff and offers training where appropriate and Tullett Prebon is committed to attracting, retaining, developing and measures performance to achieve this objective.
advancing the most qualified persons without regard to their race, ethnicity, religion or belief, gender, age, sexual orientation or The management training programme launched in 2009 as part disability.
This commitment is underpinned by policies on equal of the succession planning process continued to operate in 2012. opportunities, harassment and discrimination, to which all This programme continues to strengthen management capability employees are required to adhere.
across the Companys European business and has assisted in the continued process of succession planning.
Ethical issues The Companys approach to ethical behaviour and corporate A similar programme has been launched in the Americas for the governance is specifically written into policy and Tullett Prebon regions senior management and also for all desk heads and documents, for observance by all members of staff, and directors.
This process ensures the Companys key managers in its provides for: two principal regions receive consistent and professional training appropriate for the management positions that they occupy.
maintaining high standards of compliance and risk management ultimately the responsibility of the Chief Executive, and The productivity and welfare of employees in a business so monitored by the Board and Audit Committee: dependent on people, such as Tullett Prebon, continued to attract considerable senior management attention throughout the fully complying with legal and regulatory requirements in each reporting period, and management at all levels undertook active of the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the FSAs engagement programmes with employees, a process monitored by Conduct of Business Sourcebook and the Bank of Englands regional chief executive officers.
Non-Investment Products Code: To assist with employee engagement, the Company maintains prohibiting corrupt practices such as inappropriate payments to effective internal communications channels at both Group and any third party, directly or indirectly: regional levels to ensure staff are informed in a timely way about major developments in the business, such as the launch of new fully complying with tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in products, organisational changes, key hires, and financial and which it operates relating to its affairs and the deduction of regulatory announcements.
Information is provided to employees taxes from staff remuneration: regularly through integrated and complementary channels such as internal emails, the Companys intranet site, print collateral and trading fairly, knowing its clients and properly understanding its town hall meetings, as appropriate.
Posters are used for internal trades with its clients.
The Company has a policy of not communications across all the Companys offices and the participating in trading activities which it suspects may not be quarterly-produced Company-wide staff e-newsletter provides an for legitimate trading purposes, or whose sole purpose appears enhanced communications channel.
to be tax reduction by the counterparty: Staff welfare remains a serious matter for the Company, especially guiding employees involved in procurement activities, including given the demanding nature of the broking environment.
Day to a requirement to adhere to the highest ethical and social day responsibility for staff welfare and the management of stress standards: and rests with business line management assisted by the Human Resources department.
This is supplemented by an Employee maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, Assistance Programme which provides counselling and advice to entertainment and conflicts of interest.
staff and their families, and the use of occupational health specialists if required.
The Companys policies on health and safety provide a formal framework and inform line management in the discharge of their responsibilities in this area.
Records on employment and pastoral care matters are maintained as required in each legal and regulatory jurisdiction.
These help to provide senior management with metrics to measure both the performance and welfare of staff: in 2012 the average revenue generated by each broker was 479,000 2011: 524,000 : 22 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information the Company employed 2,645 full time equivalent employees outdoor pursuits.
The Company recognises the importance of and directors worldwide in 2012 46% in Europe, 32% in the redressing some of the associated negative effects of the relatively Americas and 22% in Asia Pacific compared with 2,550 staff in physically inactive desk-based business on its employees.
To this 2011 48% in Europe, 30% in North America and 22% in Asia end the Company continued to offer its workforce a range of Pacific.
Total remuneration for all staff in 2012 was 530m exercise and general sporting activities.
In addition to the 2011: 570m : personal benefits that accrue to the individual, the business benefits of this policy are clear and are evidenced in the dictum claims for compensation for work-related accidents and illnesses mens sana in corpore sano.
Accordingly, the Company has been remained minimal in 2012 with two claims for Workers keen to support the provision of a broad physical fitness Compensation in the US, three claims in Asia Pacific two of programme, especially as the demand for this continues to come these occurred whilst commuting to and from work and no from employees themselves.
claims in the UK: Throughout the reporting period the Company provided British in 2012 there was an increase in absence due to short term Military Fitness circuit training for staff in London and, as in each employee sickness in the UK, in terms of both total days taken year since its implementation in 2009, classes remained at full and average time off work.
In the UK the Company lost 1,767 capacity.
Again in response to staff demand, in 2012 the Company sick days 2011: 1,452 sick days and the average time off work maintained its programme of recreational and competitive bike due to short term sickness was 1.75 days per employee 2011: rides over spring and summer weekends which were open to 1.41 days.
In Asia Pacific 1,930 days were lost due to short term employees, their families and clients, and these rides provided for sickness 2011: 1,213 days, an average of 2.56 days per all ages and abilities.
The US does not report short term sickness in the same way as in Asia Pacific or the UK, but in In addition to circuit training and bike events the Company terms of longer term disability sickness the average rate was continued to support participation in a range of externally 0.50 workdays per employee compared with 0.45 days per organised sporting activities including the Bloomberg Square Mile employee in 2011: and Relay, the Standard Chartered Great City Race, Vertical Rush racing up the stairwell in one of the Citys tallest buildings, and the 2012 saw one minor reported staff accident in the UK compared JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge in London, New York and with none the year before.
Again, no visitors suffered injury on Singapore, which have become annual fixtures in the Companys Company premises during 2012. sporting calendar.
This years Company sporting activities also included the Tullett Prebon Challenge an internal competition run As the Company is highly dependent on its employees, retention in London to coincide with the London 2012 Olympics.
As well as of key personnel remains one of managements core tasks.
2012 building on the hype and excitement of the London 2012 Olympics, has continued to present challenges in this regard, but this internal team competition offered departments the chance to management believes that, in the ordinary course of its business, compete across divisions and departments as well as facilitating retention policies in general have proved successful in retaining improved wellbeing and improved motivation for exercise.
Throughout 2012, the Company continued the scheme, first To better track the health of the Company in respect of staff introduced in 2009, to provide team clothing to staff taking part in retention beyond the simple end-of-year headcount numbers, other team and sporting activities.
Events included the London to which whilst useful as a general guide does not help with Paris Cycle Tour, the Try Tag Rugby Corporate Challenge and The developing an understanding of retention in a qualitative way, the Tullett Prebon Americas Softball League.
Company continues to monitor length of service of all staff.
This provides a more qualitative measure as it implicitly reflects staff The continued enthusiasm for the UK Governments Cycle to Work attitudes to employment with the Company, as a dissatisfied scheme further evidences the interest in sport and general fitness workforce would be expected to be highly fluid with few longacross the UK workforce.
A further 91 staff purchased cycles under serving members of staff.
this scheme in the reporting period, on top of the 296 who had previously taken advantage of this scheme in 2009 to 2011.
Accordingly, the Company records by region percentages of staff that have five and 10 years or more service.
The table below sets Across Tullett Prebon over 400 staff were actively engaged in out the high retention levels across the Group: Company assisted sporting and fitness activities in 2012 2011: 340 and management hopes that the Companys support in this To help alleviate the high-stress work environment, the Companys area will continue to improve staff welfare and general health, and pastoral care programme has continued to respond to staff thereby contribute to an improved work life balance, and in turn requests for an improved work life balance and specifically for contribute to the success of the Company.
support with access to improved physical exercise and active US UK Asia Pacific 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 5 years service % 52.8 58.9 57.8 54.3 40.0 34.8 10 years service % 34.5 39.4 34.8 32.2 15.8 13.1 23 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review continued The pastoral care programme has also provided support to All clients and employees with their families are invited to attend employees in the UK with access to childcare provision and in the event, which is also to encourage greater participation in charitable giving, by the Company running schemes under the UK Companys staff sport and fitness programme as the Boat Show Governments salary sacrifice programme.
In 2012, an increase was is co-located with the Outdoors Show and the London Bike Show.
seen in the number of employees 80 opting for Company Childcare 2012 was the final year of the Companys four year commitment Vouchers compared with 67 in 2011.
Following internal promotion to support the Boat Show.
of the Give as You Earn scheme donations by staff saw some increase in 2012 although the Company believes that there remains Social and community issues unrealised support for this scheme and it intends to allocate further Service in the Volunteer Reserve Forces resources to its promotion in the subsequent reporting period.
The Company recognises that members of the Volunteer Reserve Forces in the UK and the US the two countries that account for Community investment around 80% of Tullett Prebons revenues continue to provide a Tullett Prebons approach to community investment is informed critical component of the Armed Forces of both countries.
by the Companys limited impact on the communities in which it operates and by the resources and expertise at its disposal.
In line with its commitment to support members of the Volunteer There are several strands to the Companys community Reserve Forces, which forms part of the terms of employment in investment programme: the Staff Handbook, the Company continued to be a member of the UK Ministry of Defences employers organisation, SaBRE, which the Companys direct engagement in the public policy response seeks to foster a good relationship between employers, employees to the financial crisis and its aftermath has sought to make a and the Armed Forces.
During 2012 the Company explored with balanced and factual contribution to a process hitherto often ill the Ministry of Defence ways in which it could assist further with informed and not unconstrained by political dogma: post-service employment opportunities.
Tax and other social payments London is where the Company is headquartered and where it The Company continues to maintain a Low Risk rating from HMRC.
has its biggest concentration of personnel and therefore where The Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each of the last it has its biggest impact on a local community.
The Company has accordingly become actively involved with the Corporation six years since HMRC started to publish the names of those of London which provides the local authority services for companies achieving this important status.
Londons financial district, and which has an extensive community and charitable programme: Tullett Prebon is registered, regulated and publicly listed in the UK and will continue to pay the right amount of tax at the right time.
the Corporation of London has an effective public policy programme in connection with its husbandry of Londons Tullett Prebon made payments to tax authorities principally in the financial services industry.
The Company continues to support UK and US, the main jurisdictions in which it operates for 2012 of the Corporations efforts in this regard, in particular in 275m 2011: 290m, 2010: 267m, and 2009 of just under 280m, coordination with the Companys professional body, the comprising corporation tax, employers social security payments and Wholesale Markets Brokers Association WMBA : income taxes and social security paid on behalf of employees.
in place of any formal regular survey of staff opinion the In addition, the Company makes further income tax and employee Companys senior management team, led by the Chief social security payments to the tax authorities in other tax Executive, has an active programme of engagement with jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Chief Executive, together with his senior managers, participates in many of the staff-led sports and Donations exercise opportunities provided by the Company this, it is felt, The Company has maintained the policy of making no donations to provides for very direct and qualitative opinion sharing which is political parties.
Similarly, charitable donations are not normally all the more effective because of the nature of honest debate allowed.
These two policies reflect the Boards view that found in a company where people are not slow in coming shareholders funds should be retained for use within the business forward with their views: and and that it is for shareholders to determine what non-business use should be made of their resources.
continued support for the wider UK economy has been evidenced by the Companys involvement with the British Marine Public policy engagement Industry and specifically by the support it has provided to the Tullett Prebon continued its engagement in the public policy British Marine Federations BMF annual London Boat Show.
debate surrounding the future of the financial services sector.
The show at ExCel in Docklands, an area of London where Notwithstanding being a relatively small UK listed entity, the Tullett Prebons clients and associated businesses are heavily Company, using its position at the very heart of the capital markets concentrated, has allowed the Company to assist the BMF which gives it an informed view available to very few others, was to showcase the successful leisure marine sector of the UK consistently able to punch above its weight.
economy responsible for employing 31,000 people and exporting goods and services in 2011 2012 in excess of 1 billion.
Continuing the pattern established in recent years, the Company The sponsorship of this large national event is part of a wider concentrated on three strands of public policy activity during 2012: public policy agenda.
As well as promoting client and staff engagement, it promotes an industry important to the wider deepening involvement with the various trade and other UK economy outside the narrow confines of financial services.
professional bodies of which the Company is a member.
24 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information In particular the Company provided continuing financial support The 2012 audit by Sustain Limited, an independent carbon reduction to the WMBA in the UK and to the Wholesale Markets Brokers company, indicated that the 2012 carbon footprint is comparable to Association of the Americas WMBAA in North America, previous years with UK and US operations responsible for who are the interdealer brokers trade bodies.
Both of these approximately 11,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
In the UK organisations now have active and well resourced lobby and US operations, energy consumption in offices accounted for 85% programmes seeking to engage with lawmakers, officials and of emissions and air travel accounted for 15%.
Collaborations with regulators in their respective jurisdictions.
In addition, the landlords to improve energy efficiency and reduce waste continued Company has continued to develop its involvement with other to be the main focus for reducing the Companys carbon footprint.
key professional and industry specific bodies in all geographies As a result of one such initiative, the Company received a Platinum in which it operates.
The Companys representation on these Award in the Clean City Awards 2012 for best practice in waste key trade bodies by one member of the Companys Executive management in the City of London.
A stringent cost control regime Committee has continued to ensure coordinated, focused and continues to be in force and this minimises business travel in favour effective advocacy throughout the reporting period: of video and telephone conferencing.
In the UK during 2012 the Company, with the assistance of a the Companys Chief Executive continued his engagement in specialist contractor, recycled 82,000kg of paper 2011: 67,000kg public debate on issues relevant to the financial services sector, which gave rise to an estimated saving of 65,000kg of CO2 continuing dialogue with mainstream political parties in the UK emissions 2011: 53,000kg.
During 2012 5,455kg 2011: 4,887kg regarding policy development around economic and financial of Waste Electronic Electrical Equipment WEEE was recycled.
services issues: and A reduction of 4% in electricity consumption in the UK was also achieved in 2012. the Companys Global Head of Research, one of whose roles is to increase the Companys visibility in the public policy arena, was Contractual or other arrangements essential to the business again active in 2012, publishing papers addressing the principal of the Group economic themes.
Two research products continued The success of the Company relies on maintaining certain to be published during the reporting period as appropriate: contractual and other arrangements within individual entities Strategy Insights in-depth papers and Strategy Notes shorter, and across the Group relating to revenue generation, operational quicker to write and designed to respond to issues of the performance and financing.
In addition, a new channel was launched in 2012 a Blog.
The Companys Global Head of Researchs Blog has The successful generation of revenue relies on the Groups ability emerged as the preferred channel to publish new and time to hire and retain highly qualified employees.
Employment costs sensitive research and considerable traction has been achieved made up 77% of the Groups administration expenses in 2012 with this new product.
The Company seeks to put in place contractual arrangements with its personnel, including in certain The Companys public policy engagement programme will continue circumstances fixed term contracts, non-compete arrangements as required by the debate surrounding the reform and regulation of and performance related remuneration which is used to enhance the financial services sector, to ensure that the Company is able to the Groups ability to attract and retain key personnel.
continue to develop and to grow shareholder value.
The Group facilitates a finite number of customer relationships.
Environment These relationships are serviced over a wide range of products and Tullett Prebon, as an office-based business, is not engaged in across a geographically diverse business.
activities that are generally regarded as having a high environmental impact.
However, the Board has agreed that it The efficiency of the Groups operations depends on certain key will seek to adopt policies to safeguard the environment to supplier relationships.
The Group is reliant upon a number of meet statutory requirements or where such policies are financial institutions for the clearing and settlement of its commercially sensible.
transactions, most notably the DTCC, Euroclear, Clearstream, and certain key banking relationships.
The emission of greenhouse gases GHG, as a result of officebased business activities and from business travel, is the The Group is dependent upon certain information, communication Companys main impact on the environment.
and IT system providers and operates from a limited number of properties.
The Group seeks to ensure its systems are robust and The Group has both Group-wide and UK environmental policies are capable of operation from tested business continuity sites.
and the Companys procurement policy supports these policies by making clear that the Companys procurement choices will favour The Group relies on a number of international banks to provide products showing clear environmental advantages unless there are banking services and credit facilities.
At 31 December 2012 significant reasons for not doing so.
the committed facilities were provided by five banks, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds Banking Group, HSBC, Bank of America The Company has taken advice from professional specialist and the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group.
Further analysis consultants in respect of its forthcoming carbon reporting of the Groups debt structure can be found in Note 23 to the requirements.
With these reporting obligations in mind, the consolidated financial statements.
Company completed a further GHG audit covering its key geographies in 2012.
Terry Smith Chief Executive 5 March 2013 25 Board of Directors Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report Report on Directors Remuneration Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities
