Corporate Social Responsibility Statement We expect every one of our employees to uphold our core value of honesty and integrity as well as maintain a safe work place Centamin is committed to working with the highest level of respect for our employees and the communities and environments in which we operate, while pursuing value for our shareholders.
Sustainable development considerations form an integral part of our business plan and decision making processes.
We expect every one of our employees to uphold our core value of honesty and integrity as well as maintain a safe work place, respect for the environment and respect for people.
All employees are required to understand and act in accordance to the company requirements and to integrate fully within the work team.
We always treat people with respect, dignity and common courtesy regardless of position, background or lifestyle.
As 2010 was the Sukari Gold Mines first year of commercial production, many of our sustainability initiatives are in their infancy.
However our reporting process continues to evolve, as we strive to attain best practice levels of transparency and accountability.
Our Approach We are mindful of our accountability to our people in whom we invest, the community in which we work and the environment in which we operate.
This approach is central to our business philosophy and is the basis to our future financial growth.
Centamin is committed to minimizing health and safety risks to the reasonable practical level, while striving for a zero harm and a healthy productive work place.
To achieve such objectives, we work hard to set a culture where safety conscious behaviour is fully embedded across all operations.
Our key objective is for every employee to go home healthy and safe after every shift.
We strive to improve our safety performance as Sukari expands.
Our efforts in this area are guided by Centamins corporate health and safety policy that aims to ensure high standards of safety and wellbeing of the workforce.
The policy outlines our commitment to safeguarding our employees, educating our employees and contractors and applying safe work systems.
82 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Monitoring methodology included data collection, Health and Safety medical surveillance, auditing, visual inspection, As a result of the systems and programs implemented as well as systematic observation of the work and to enhance safety performance in our workplace and behaviour of staff.
Measurement and evaluation a determined effort at all levels, 2012 saw an of performance were undertaken both in-house improvement in the lost time due to injury LTI as well as through third party entities.
frequency rate as compared to 2011.
We are proud that Centamin has never experienced any safety-related Reactive monitoring was also undertaken to provide employee fatalities.
information on incidents and insights into the need for corrective or preventive actions.
A comprehensive Creating a Safety Conscious Culture Incident Investigation and Reporting System analysed We relentlessly pursue the development of the safety the root causes of incidents was used to address or culture of our site through empowering the sense of rectify their causes.
Employees were required to report responsibility of our employees and embedding the any incident or near-miss for investigation and analysis.
concepts of doing work the right safe way.
To ensure that All corrective or preventive actions were followed up employees are fully aware of the safety requirements and using a tracking system to ensure closure of issues and procedures a comprehensive safety induction system is actions.
Lessons learnt from incidents were shared and in place for new employees, contractors and visitors.
discussed in pre-start and safety meetings.
The content and level of induction varies according to 2012 2011 2010 the time the person will spend on-site as well as the Frequency Frequency Frequency activities he will undertake.
Rate Rate Rate A training plan is set and safety-specic training 000 is rolled out to all employees.
In 2012, training Fatality FA modules addressed Job Hazard Analysis, first aid, re 0.69 1.25 0.47 Lost Time Injury extinguishing, hazard identication, confined space LTIF entry, hot work, risk assessment, incident investigation, 1.37 1.07 2.87 Medical work permits, driving policy as well as lifting procedures.
Treatment Injury More comprehensive area-specic training subjects are MTIF also provided.
Full time trainers were available in almost based on 200,000 working hours over 12 months.
all operational departments to provide in-eld training and coaching for the work force.
Proactive Approach to Safety Tracking Safety Performance To minimize and control risks, we first identied assessed and incorporated risk assessment procedures into all our A core element of our management system is to assess operations and activities.
We analysed hazards for their our performance and identify needs for improvement.
probability to actually progress to a loss event, as well Such assessment addresses the level and effectiveness as the likely consequences of such an event.
of controls, performance enhancement initiatives and actions.
In 2012 we pursued a multi-functional New jobs and maintenance operations were preceded monitoring system to track performance on a periodic by a Job Hazard Analysis JHA of the activity to basis with different frequencies and approaches.
eliminate or control risks and hazards.
A Work Permit System was developed for risky operations and specic The Sukari monitoring plan addressed such occupational permits and procedures were applied within the health and safety issues as: system including confined space, hot work and lifting s Workplace environment to detect zones that need operations.
Continuous communication was maintained further controls or required specic PPE with employees through safety meetings, daily pre-shift s Stability of structures to detect any potential meetings, tool box talks as well as safety alerts.
movement, cracks or other instabilities s Occupational health parameters for specic work areas s Ensuring tness to work by testing for alcohol and drugs s Implementation of safety procedures and standards to ensure they are adhered to and well assimilated into the work culture 83 Corporate Social Responsibility Statement Emergency Response Planning Health Performance Centamin implements a diligent and rigorous approach The Sukari site maintained a well-equipped clinic to its Emergency Preparedness and Response program, providing health and emergency related services on a which represents an important element of our safety 24 7 basis.
A doctor and qualied nurse managed the management system.
Being alert and fully prepared clinic and provided professional services.
The clinic for any emergency will minimize the magnitude and was also equipped to respond to emergency situations consequences for any unprecedented event.
An ambulance was continuously on call to transfer any cases that needed higher medical A detailed emergency plan was in place throughout treatment to the Marsa Alam hospital.
2012 with full emergency response procedures for different scenarios.
The plan delineates communication We paid utmost attention to the protection of employees arrangements and external resources and facilities from exposure to chemicals, dust, noise and other that might provide support to in-house capabilities.
elements that might cause health problems.
AreaWe maintained a well qualied emergency response specic instructions were in place regarding control and rescue team able to be immediately and efficiently measures and specic personal protective equipment mobilized.
The team is equipped with response requirements.
Awareness and training programs were equipment, supplies and rescue facilities.
implemented to discuss potential occupational health hazards and measures to address them.
The emergency arrangements include re rings of different hydrants at different areas, re control panels Medical surveillance programs were in place, including with manual call points and smoke detectors, foam and blood lead analysis for laboratory personnel involved water re suppression systems as well as a re truck for in re assays.
Periodic measurements for work heavy res.
A medical evacuation scheme MEDIVAC is environment parameters throughout 2012 confirmed that in place, supported by first aid facilities, a fully equipped employee safety is maintained within the limits specified clinic with doctors and qualied nurses as well as an by Egyptian law and supported by best international ambulance for transportation to the nearest medical mining practice.
In addition, we coordinate with Our Employees external entities and authorities, including re station, Our people are our most valuable resource.
Centamins air transport companies, police and hospitals activities provide direct and indirect employment, for support during a re.
training and work experience to many Egyptians, as well A preventive maintenance and inspection program was as creating an immediate revenue stream for the local maintained to ensure that all equipment is t for use economy and the Government.
We undertook periodic drills to test our Centamin had just over 1,000 employees on site and performance, equipment as well as training.
Approximately 50% of our employees were analysed to provide feedback to the emergency are from Upper Egypt, the area where Sukari is situated, planners.
All employees were reminded of the emergency which typically has less economic activity than the richer procedures, especially in relation to securing the work areas around the Nile delta.
Centamin is committed to area, reporting emergency cases as well as evacuation.
providing new employment opportunities and assisting the economic advancement of Upper Egypt.
84 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 The table below sets out the number of people employed by the Group by country, during the years stated.
6 months Year ended Year ended ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 30 June 30 June 30 June 2012 2011 2010 2010 2009 2008 1,120 1,106 985 816 362 210 Egypt 233322 Australia 7 2 ---- UK 45 47 - - - - Ethiopia Total 1,174 1,157 988 819 364 212 Given that we are the first modern gold mine in Egypt, Training and Development our aim is to support the development of a workforce The training and development of our team at Sukari and which will have the competency and experience to form in our ofces around the world was ongoing.
It involved the basis for a robust mining industry in Egypt.
We pride a variety of theoretical, practical and on-the-job courses ourselves that about 60% of our employees are less than and took place both at Sukari and abroad.
encouraged our employees to realise their ambitions The Group also uses contractors, primarily involving and we supported employees who aspire to progress construction activities with some involved in drilling up the career ladder and learn new skills.
Through an and blasting activities.
The number of employees and inter-departmental mobility programme, we offered our contractors involved in construction is expected to rise people the chance to rotate into other teams to gain and fall in future in line with the further development of new knowledge and experience.
In 2012, several of our expansion projects at Sukari.
employees took part in this programme and they have shown great potential in a number of roles.
We are committed to attracting, energizing, developing and retaining a highly skilled and experienced workforce.
Social and Community Activities We value individuals with outstanding technical, In addition to creating a positive work environment, we professional and managerial skills, working in a positive believe in the importance of helping our employees to environment and demonstrating willingness to lead, enjoy their time before and after work.
The majority of take responsibility and display initiative.
We aim to foster our people live in the Sukari camp, and thus we have a relation of trust and open dialogue between employees invested in a variety of leisure facilities such as playing and management.
elds, a gymnasium, a library, internet access, satellite television and a swimming pool.
Special barbecue dinners Communicating with Our People are also held at the beach or around Sukari and sports 2012 saw a formal system developed through which tournaments are regularly organised.
employees are encouraged to express their concerns in relation to ethical issues, reasonable workplace issues or For our married employees, we have implemented work arrangements.
Grievances will be comprehensively a relocation programme that allows them to live in Marsa and transparently investigated and resolved to ensure Alam, a coastal town 25km from the mine, with their spouses.
We provide transportation to and from prompt and fair tackling of any concerns that might Sukari and we plan to expand this programme further arise.
The system will provide feedback to those in coming years.
We paid much attention to ideas provided by employees We are proud to have brought mining back to a country regarding their work, including modications to work that was once an important gold-producing country and organization that saved time and increased performance we are paving the way for new investment in Egypts and safety levels.
We kept employees informed of new procedures, circumstances or interests through an internal information dissemination system, as well as meetings, notice boards, emails and informal gatherings.
85 Corporate Social Responsibility Statement Resource Management The Environment We use ore and process materials such as consumables We believe that environment responsibility is an inherent and reagents to extract gold and to produce gold dor.
core part of to our business.
Centamins corporate Key consumables used are diesel fuel, explosives, environmental policy outlines our commitment to lubricants and oils, sodium cyanide, lime and grinding safeguarding the environment, educating our employees media.
Our environmental management systems and communities, and applying sound environmental include processes to manage all consumables and as a management practices to minimize the risks of the minimum, we import, transport, store, use and dispose environmental impacts of its operations to the of residues of such material according to Egyptian reasonably practical level.
All chemical solutions used in the process Throughout 2012 we pursued programs and systems to plant are recycled and reused after regeneration.
ensure that the environment is appropriately managed and protected in all phases of our exploration, development, Water mining and processing activities.
We are committed to Sukari is situated in the eastern desert of Egypt, maintaining and where possible enhancing the high level a hot, dry region with very low annual rainfall 10mm of environmental performance that we have reached.
There are no fresh water sources in the area and no productive groundwater reservoirs.
Water is very Creating an Environmentally Responsible Culture important to a mining operation and is mainly used for ore We maintained the training system through which all processing, dust suppression and rock blasting.
new employees and visitors undertook an induction to We obtain our water through a pipeline to the Red Sea, introduce them to the companys systems, procedures and which is approximately 25km from Sukari.
Beach wells instructions as well as inform them of their responsibilities where seawater inltrates into groundwater are also used and expected performance.
Area specic inductions as a secondary source of water.
In 2012, Sukari used highlighted environmental obligations and impacts related about 4.2 million cubic metres of water.
We actively to specic work operations.
pursued water conservation opportunities and through an internal recycling technique, we optimised its use.
Tracking Environmental Performance A core element of our management system is to asses Energy our performance against our objectives and obligations We obtain our energy from diesel fuel oil with low sulphur and to provide feedback and assurance regarding content.
Direct energy produced and consumed at Sukari the level and effectiveness of controls, performance includes fuel to run mobile equipment, to produce power enhancement initiatives and actions.
and heat onsite and for explosives used to mine ore.
In 2012, we focused on strengthening our in-house In 2012, Sukari consumed 64.5 million litres of diesel, monitoring capabilities.
We have built a self-sustained an increase of about 12% over 2011.
Since the largest monitoring station with equipment such as ambient and consumption element was power generation c. 70% point source gas analysers, dust meters, noise meters, we continued to seek ways to utilize energy more water kits and equipment to monitor meteorological efficiently, with stringent monitoring of diesel consumption conditions.
The station is managed by experienced for different users to indicate opportunities for personnel.
We are currently nalizing the documentation conservation.
We monitored our emissions due to fuel of operational procedures that includes sampling combustion and established that our emissions were well instructions, calibration requirements as well as quality within allowable limits.
In 2013, we will start calculating control assurance procedures.
In 2012, we did not have any significant environmental incidents.
Minor incidents onsite did not impact areas outside our boundaries.
86 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Emissions, efuents and wastes We monitor emissions, efuents and waste generated by Sukari.
Programmes are in place to manage dust, hazardous and non-hazardous non-process waste, waste rock and tailings.
We recycled and reused our waste to the maximum practical level.
Material that could not be recycled was disposed of in a manner that was environmentally sound.
We maintained an inventory of all types of waste, their quantities and the method of management and disposal as part of our waste management programme.
Biodiversity 2 The 160km Sukari tenement area has very low coverage of ora, with mostly barren soil.
Due to the scarcity of water in the area, desert animals such as the Dorcas Gazelle and the red fox are not found, but they do inhabit the nearby Wadi El-Gemal protectorate.
Centamin is committed to protecting the wildlife unique to the eastern desert through minimising the negative impact of our operations.
Biodiversity conservation principles are applied to all of our activities and were integrated into the project design for Sukari from the outset.
Rehabilitation A draft restoration and rehabilitation plan has been prepared during construction and is updated and rened annually to account for changes in mine development and operation as well as environmental and social conditions and requirements.
A final version of the plan will be reached as closure approaches and after due consultation with stakeholders.
The main activities of the rehabilitation process will range from dismantling of infrastructure of equipment, winning, hauling, dumping, spreading of waste rock, ripping off compacted surfaces and grading area to blend with the surroundings.
Given Sukari area is an arid desert with no topsoil, there will be a need to vegetate the surface so as not to alter the nature of the area.
A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is included in the annual budget.
The provision for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
Future restoration costs are reviewed annually and any changes in the estimate are reected in the present value of the restoration provision at each reporting date.
In addition to the long term rehabilitation plan, we undertake short-term rehabilitation and restoration activities especially for construction sites and for spills.
We have a wide range of spill kits and personnel are trained for clean-up operations.
Assisting the local community with its economic Community and Society development Centamins concession agreement gives us 30 years From the commencement of our activities in 1995, of operation at the Sukari Gold Mine with a potential we have strived to contribute to the development extension for another 30 years.
With such a long tenure, of Marsa Alam.
Based on the Environmental which is supported by a long life-of-mine, we take a long and Social Impact Assessment ESIA and in term view in matters relating to the local community.
consultation with the Board we have established Centamin recognises that it has a responsibility to a number of projects and initiatives to support support and enhance the community in which it infrastructure provision for deprived areas and operates.
We consider good community relations as a settlements.
Such activities respond to needs key component of continued operational success as assessments periodically updated and coordinated well as a corporate requirement.
We are committed to with governmental plans and projects.
Projects are making a long lasting positive impact on the community implemented through direct interaction with the where we do business.
We act at all times in a socially community, though local NGOs and community responsible manner and aim to give back to the support associations or through full cooperation community in which we operate.
In 2012, our focus was on supporting infrastructural projects.
The four key ways in which we do this are: 1.
Identifying and mitigating any potential negative Case study impacts of our activities Awlad Baraka or Children of Baraka from the El Gergab Sukari is situated in barren desert, so the closest clan live in Umm Tundubah 14km from Marsa Alam and town Marsa Alam is 25km from site.
We do not 22km away from the mine.
There are around 40 houses have any resettlement, relocation or compensation including 200 people in the unofcial settlement.
Some requirements as a result of the development of of Awlad Baraka men work as boat drivers in the near-by Sukari, however we take into account the potential diving center as well as safari guides.
Most households impact of our operations on local people at every have cars which they rent to tourists or local inhabitants.
Women who are not yet married work in herding.
Engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders and After they are married, they remain at home for taking listening to their suggestions and concerns care of children.
We nurture dialogue and build relations with the The city council has announced that they will provide local community in areas in which we operate.
land to people living in the unofcial settlement, which A public consultation system has been developed however has no infrastructure.
and implemented since the project design phase, The houses of the settlement are much more modern during construction phase and through operation.
than those of the families in Wadi Sukari.
The houses We maintain open channels of communication have sofas, kitchen, and bedrooms.
However, because with all our stakeholders, including two Marsa there is no electricity in the houses, families have to rely Alam-based development associations, for the on candles at night.
purpose of information disclosure, raising concerns Through public consultation activities, Centamin and grievances as well as public consultation.
In identied electricity as a priority need for the Awlad 2012, no material concerns were raised concerning Baraka.
Being near the water intake area for the mine, our operations.
it was possible to have access installed to the power 3.
Optimising the opportunity for people from the area line and its transformers.
Connections were therefore Upper Egypt to gain employment at Sukari made to Awlad Baraka and power lines were extended to Since about 50% of Sukaris employees are from every house.
Currently, each household has a television, Upper Egypt, we are strongly contributing to the satellite and most importantly, refrigerators.
The families development of this area.
Where possible, we tender are very happy with the project, which has brought light contracts to local companies to aid local economic to their lives.
Across Egypt, we use more than 6,000 local suppliers and contractors, providing jobs and income to a much larger group of people than our 1,000 direct employees.
