Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review CORpORate ReSpOnSiBiLity RevieW OUR BUSineSS invOLveS US in a Wide Range Of SOCiaL, enviROnMentaL AnD EthiCAL iSSUES.
Mary Francis CBE Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Cygnus gas field, for example, will create External assurance and Corporate Responsibility around 4,000 jobs during the development performance indicators phase, whilst our Lincs offshore wind farm We want our stakeholders to be in Centrica is overseen will supply low carbon electricity to some confident that our metrics accurately 200,000 homes.
We continued to take a by a Committee of the reflect our performance.
We therefore lead in helping households save energy asked Deloitte LLP to review the most Board.
this is our and in offering energy choices that are important key performance indicators simple, fair and transparent and during the that have a material impact on our sixth report.
year we spent more than any other supplier business and to provide limited on helping those who are more vulnerable.
assurance, using the International A continuing concern for all companies Standard on Assurance Engagements Centricas corporate responsibility ambition is the fact that public trust in business, ISAE 3000.
Key performance measures is to be the most trusted energy company.
especially in the UK, remains low.
We are included in this review, with a full In 2012, we focused on: believe strongly that a companys table available on pages 150 and 151. approach to corporate responsibility treating customers with fairness: Deloittes full assurance statement and CR being mindful of its long-term securing affordable energy supplies: and the Basis of Reporting are available in impact on the societies and our online Annual Report at environments in which it operates has reducing carbon emissions.
an important role to play in rebuilding In this review, we summarise our approach public confidence.
to corporate responsibility including Centricas strong business performance governance, processes and material in 2012 had a direct impact on its issues.
Since corporate responsibility is an broader contribution to society.
integral part of our decision-making, more Through our dividend we were a major detail about the way in which our individual contributor towards retirement savings businesses have contributed to the and through our investments of societies and environments in which they 2.7 billion we helped secure affordable operate, can be found in the Operating energy supplies and create jobs.
Other significant aspects of our businesses and CR activities which include management of the supply chain, environmental management integRated eneRgy and community engagement and investment can be found online at What it means to us centrica.
com responsibility how we achieve it 40 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review CORpORate ReSpOnSiBiLity RevieW COntinUed Governance, risk and stakeholder Treating customers with fairness engagement We continue to focus on building trust We aRe Centricas business principles see page 8 with our customers, government and provide the basis for consistent decisionother stakeholders.
We need to be trusted deMOnStRating making across the Group.
They set out the by our customers for them to continue operating behaviours we require based on to choose us as their supplier and by tRanSpaRenCy By trust, integrity and openness.
governments and regulators for our views to carry weight.
paRtiCipating in To make sure we apply our values consistently and reconcile conflicting In 2012, aware that trust among the UK ftSE4GOOD AnD thE priorities responsibly, we have strong public in the energy sector was low, we governance and internal control systems.
continued to act to restore faith in our CaRBOn diSCLOSURe Effective governance also helps ensure business.
We maintained our efforts to corporate responsibility is integral to our make energy buying simpler and easier to pROjeCt business activities.
understand for all our customers through simplifying bills and tariff structures, We continued our dialogue with socially The role and membership of the Corporate moving to single tier pricing and providing responsible investment organisations Responsibility Committee is set out on special support for our more vulnerable and covered corporate responsibility page 57 together with the key issues customers.
We also engaged fully with issues at mainstream shareholder reviewed by the Committee during 2012.
Ofgem, the UK regulator, notably in its presentations.
We participate in Assessing material risks and Retail Market Review.
We will build on selected indices such as FTSE4Good opportunities these activities in 2013. and the Carbon Disclosure Project Our business involves us in a wide range CDP demonstrating transparency Affordability of social, environmental and ethical issues.
and enabling us to benchmark our Household budgets remain under pressure The individual business units are performance.
In 2012 we were again and rising energy bills have contributed to responsible for identifying material issues included in the CDP Leadership this.
We have worked hard to help of concern to their stakeholders and Global 500 Index and were the top households save energy and to reduce our assessing the potential impact of their scoring UK utility company.
operating costs, both of which feed through operations on society and the to bill levels.
A slight fall in wholesale environment.
The Executive Committee electricity prices allowed us to decrease and the corporate responsibility teams prices by 5% in January 2012.
However, in each business contribute to these wholesale gas prices are now 13% higher assessments, working closely with than in winter 2011 12 while costs for our business risk teams.
upgrading the UKs grid and meeting Stakeholder engagement carbon reduction targets have increased Engaging openly with stakeholders by around 50 per customer.
As a result enables us to understand and respond to we had to increase our prices for domestic offshore wind.
It also provided input into issues that concern people.
During 2012 gas and electricity in November by an the development of the British Gas we kept in regular contact with stakeholder average of 6%.
groups, including governments, regulators, Customer satisfaction Corporate responsibility strategy investors, business partners, local We have made significant improvements in Our priorities in 2012 were treating communities and non-governmental standards of service in recent years.
In the customers with fairness, securing organisations, to maintain a comprehensive UK, call answering and handling times affordable energy supplies and reducing understanding of their views about our have improved, supported by initiatives carbon emissions.
business and its wider impacts.
such as the British Gas Look Whos The Corporate Responsibility Advisory Our corporate responsibility priorities will Calling training programme which teaches Group set up in 2011 continues to provide be reviewed in consultation with internal employees to better understand and valuable external feedback and guidance.
and external stakeholders in the light of respond to customers needs.
We track Its members are drawn from our key the Groups refreshed strategic priorities customer satisfaction by using Net stakeholder groups.
The CR Advisory introduced in the Chief Executives Review Promoter Scores NPS, which measure a Group met twice in 2012 and advised on on page 11.
Any changes will be set out customers willingness to recommend us.
several issues including the environmental in our online Corporate Responsibility The British Gas NPS increased in 2012 and social impacts of our approach to Report to be released at the beginning with an annual average score of 30 procurement, vulnerable customers and of May 2013. compared with 26 in 2011.
Direct Energy Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review NPS ended 2012 at 39, a significant Achieving reductions in carbon Protecting biodiversity at our improvement on the 2011 score of 28. emissions Lincs offshore wind farm Centrica gives priority to managing its We continue to work hard on resolving impact on climate change.
It does this complaints and, in the UK, the number We recently installed a second export through helping customers reduce their of complaints to our residential services cable to transfer power to the shore.
energy usage and through investing in business fell.
In the UK, along with other Careful installation was essential due lower carbon power generation.
We also suppliers, we are now reporting our to the sensitive environment which address our own behaviour through setting complaints information quarterly to Ofgem.
included a protected salt marsh site.
targets for reducing carbon emissions from After extensive dialogue with Listening to customers our property, vehicle fleet and travel.
stakeholders we received permission An important way of improving our service Helping our customers reduce to use a new technology a special is to listen to our customers and act on carbonemissions trenching tool with wide tracks that their concerns.
In the UK this has resulted Using energy more efficiently continues reduced ground pressure for use in in three areas of focus fairness, simplicity to be the most effective way for customers the sensitive environment.
These in turn have led to to reduce the amount of energy they use corridor began to show signs of practical changes in our service, such as and therefore their carbon emissions.
We recovery after only a few weeks.
the introduction of a tariff checker to promote energy efficiency mainly through We will monitor the site frequently enable customers to see if they are on providing customers with insulation to during the next five years.
the best tariff for their needs, simpler bills reduce heat loss from their homes and the and more openness in the way we installation of more efficient boilers.
Gas also provides products based on low Vulnerable customers carbon technologies including solar We continued to provide targeted panels, heat pumps and biomass boilers assistance to vulnerable customers in the which allow customers to heat and light UK, primarily by advising on energy their homes whilst producing lower carbon efficiency and debt, discounted tariffs, emissions.
Over the past three years, we products and services and energy and have enabled carbon savings downstream household grants, and through some that are the equivalent of a 1.8GW wind farm.
The UK Governments Green Deal offers customers financial help to make their fOR fuRThER InfORmATIOn On homes more energy efficient and British InITIATIvES dESCRIBEd In ThIS SECTIOn SEE ThE OPERATInG REvIEwS fOR Gas will be helping to deliverthis.
opportunities for energy security and BRITISh GAS And dIRECT EnERGy On PAGES 22 And 32. build a lower carbon future.
However, Lower carbon power generation they can also raise significant social and To reduce the carbon emissions from environmental concerns.
We are working power generation, the use of fossil fuel Securing affordable energy hard to ensure that all our gas production energy sources, in particular coal, must be supplies and energy generation activities are reduced.
In the UK, there has already been We continue to invest in securing energy subject to consultation with both local a substantial move towards lower carbon supplies for the UK through investments in communities and national level gas power generation.
Further reductions North Sea oil and gas assets.
Such activities are carefully can be achieved through renewable project will, at peak production in 2015, planned and managed to avoid adverse generation such as offshore wind.
Nuclear supply nearly 1.5 million homes.
For example in 2012, we used generation in the UK also has an important offshore wind farm investments are specialised equipment to install cable role to play in lower carbon electricity progressing.
We achieved first power from ducts under the salt marsh for our Lincs generation.
Centrica plans to maintain its our Lincs offshore wind farm in 2012 and offshore wind farm.
interest in lower carbon power generation were granted consent for the 580MW and to continue to invest where we have mORE InfORmATIOn CAn BE fOund Race Bank offshore wind farm project.
In ThE CEnTRICA EnERGy And dIRECT an economic advantage and see attractive We have increased diversification through EnERGy OPERATInG REvIEwS On returns.
Our low carbon investments PAGES 26 And 32. agreements to import pipeline gas from continue to come on line with first power Norway and LNG from Qatar.
generated from our 270MW Lincs offshore wind farm in 2012.
New forms of energy, such as shale gas, wind and biomass can help the countries in which we operate to increase their 42 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review CORpORate ReSpOnSiBiLity RevieW COntinUed Safety is one of our core priorities the Centrica Board has direct oversight of our health and safety performance Although we wish to develop further offshore Absolute carbon have had no significant process safety wind farms, getting the relevant permissions We also measure our absolute emissions, events in2012.
is not straightforward and in 2012 our which include emissions from our gas and To monitor the personal safety of our proposed Docking Shoal project did not oil operations, our electricity generation and employees and directly-managed receive approval on environmental grounds.
the energy we use in our business activities.
contractors, we track our standard lost Our absolute carbon emissions in 2012 While we are not continuing with the time injury frequency rates LTIFR and total scope 1 and 2 based on the Greenhouse nuclear new build, we will continue to recordable injury rates TRIR.
Initiatives Gas Protocol were 7.2 million tonnes as provide our customers with lower carbon across the Group in 2012 led to a reduction compared with 8.1 million tonnes in 2011. power through our 20% off-take from the in Group LTIFR to 0.20 per 100,000 hours UKs existing nuclear power stations.
Our TRIR mORE InfORmATIOn CAn BE fOund In ThE CEnTRICA EnERGy And dIRECT was 1.42 per 100,000 hours worked in EnERGy OPERATInG REvIEwS We aim to reduce the carbon intensity of 2012, an improvement of14%.
On PAGES 26 And 32. the power we generate.
In 2012 our Group carbon intensity was 197g CO2 kWh, We have continued our focus on road compared to 220g CO2 kWh in 2011, a 10% safety and reducing vehicle accidents and Making safety a core value reduction.
This was significantly ahead of our low severity incident rate has reduced Safety is one of the Groups core priorities.
our 2012 target of 270g CO2 kWh and was by 33% to 5.0 per million km driven.
We The Board has direct oversight of our health mainly due to mothballing some of our did, however, have six incidents which we and safety performance.
Our operations are gas-fired power stations in the UK for defined as high severity and, although inherently hazardous and we fully accept commercial reasons.
Our future carbon these represented a 40% reduction on our responsibility to protect the health and intensity is expected to rise as the markets 2011, they still emphasise the need for safety of our employees, contractors, adjust and so our long-term aim of ongoing rigour in our road safety customers and the wider public.
Reinforcing a safety culture at Managing the emissions from There were no fatal incidents among Centrica property, fleet and travel Centricas employees or associated third We continue to raise our standards of We are reducing our emissions from parties in 2012.
We were very concerned performance through strong leadership our property, fleet and travel by raising that there were a number of particularly and on-going programmes to raise awareness among employees, making serious injuries, including two serious awareness and reinforce a positive and offices more energy efficient, investing incidents in British Gas and Direct Energy.
proactive safety culture across all our in lower-carbon vehicles and providing We are reinforcing our investigations and businesses.
We have put particular alternatives to business travel.
Our target is reporting processes to provide greater emphasis on process safety in our to cut emissions from buildings, company visibility of these events.
We look to share upstream operations and the safety vehicles and travel in our core business by understanding and learning from the of the public and our engineers in our 20% by 2015, from the 2007 baseline.
In incidents across the Group.
downstream businesses, through training 2012, we achieved a 2% reduction year and the introduction of more rigorous Our employees on year, a 21% reduction against the monitoring andassurance.
We had an average of 38,642 employees baseline.
Carbon emissions from these in 2012 with a retention rate of 89.7% Our process safety metrics are reported activities were 91,988 tonnes.
We work hard to make regularly to the Executive Committee.
We Centrica a rewarding place to work and Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review process and we made every effort to mORE InfORmATIOn CAn BE fOund In ThE OPERATInG REvIEw support those affected, wherever possible On PAGES 22 TO 35. seeking to redeploy people in the business or supporting them in finding other work.
have continued our focus on skills, Diversity development and employee engagement.
We aim to provide an inclusive and Skills and development diverse workplace and are committed to Continuous learning and development is equal opportunity.
We will not tolerate essential to ensure employees have the discrimination against any group.
opportunity to fulfil their potential and are We give full and fair consideration to equipped to help grow our business and applications for employment made by implement our strategy.
If an employee becomes leaders is crucial.
Our talent boards, general disabled, wherever possible we offer support, management programme and leadership retraining, equipment and facilities to help master classes are designed to identify them stay with us.
In addition, we operate and nurture high-potential managers.
In policies to help ensure there are fair promotion Centrica Energy, CE Way Labs were opportunities for disabled employees.
held which helped embed the CE Way culture and values and allowed people We encourage the retention and to share experiences.
The CE Way has recruitment of older people, recognising also been linked to the performance COntinUOUS the valuable experience they bring.
Improving womens representation at all LeaRning and levels is a priority.
We focus on female Employee engagement leadership training, recruitment, flexible In 2012, as planned, we conducted a deveLOpMent iS working and employee network groups.
This is an important process which eSSentiaL tO enSURe Community investment informs management of the collective In 2012, we contributed 233.6 million eMpLOyeeS have the views of employees so that we can directly to supporting vulnerable customers improve engagement in the future.
Our and community and social projects.
OppORtUnity tO overall engagement score, benchmarked The majority of our contributions were against our peers, saw a slight decline but through mandatory programmes such fULfiL theiR was still above median.
Given the changes as the Warm Home Discount and the that had taken place in the business, this Community Energy Saving Programme.
pOtentiaL was not surprising and through the year We also contributed 9.3 million to we undertook a number of initiatives to charitable organisations using the London engage our employees.
These included Benchmarking Group methodology, our Extraordinary you programme which including establishing strategic brought together over 9,000 British Gas partnerships such as between British engineers through 104 events in 23 Gas and Shelter.
89.7% locations to focus on their critical role in Employee retention rate for 2012 delivering excellent customer service.
Employees receive regular updates on Company news and performance by a variety of methods.
This includes Mary Francis CBE newsletters, emails, online sites and face Chairman of the Corporate to face meetings with members of the Responsibility Committee Executive Committee.
27 February 2013 Eligible employees are regularly encouraged to participate in employee share schemes and we continue to see good rates of participation.
OnLine Organisational change We have had to make some organisational changes to reflect the changing nature of our business, which has resulted in some 2,459 employees leaving the Group.
Read more about our CR Achieving such change is never an easy activities at centrica.
