services consisted of tax compliance services, tax advisory services and Safety, ethics and environment assurance services relating to corporate finance transactions.
The audit committee is committee SEEAC satisfied that this level of fee is appropriate in respect of the audit services provided and that an effective audit can be conducted for such a fee.
During the year, the committee considered the outcome of the Financial Reporting Council consultation on the UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees, with particular focus on provisions for tendering the external audit.
The committee has undertaken preparatory work to understand the potential for other audit rms to participate in a tender should this be triggered by criteria which has been agreed with management, including independence, quality of service, audit quality, value for money and regulatory changes.
The committee will keep this under review going forward.
The effectiveness of the external auditors is evaluated by the audit committee each year.
The auditor assessment tool is completed on an annual basis and examines five main performance criteria robustness of the audit process, independence and objectivity, quality of delivery, quality of people and service, and value-added advice.
The composition of the audit team is reviewed annually and the committee has the opportunity to assess specic technical capabilities in the audit rm when addressing specialist SEEAC has spent considerable time over the topics, such as tax and trading.
past year both in terms of understanding and The committee has recommended to the board that the reappointment of Ernst & Young as the companys external auditors be proposed to monitoring key group risks.
Internal audit The committee receives quarterly reports from the general auditor which outline the planned schedule of audits as well as tracking key findings and Chairmans introduction any material actions that are overdue or have been rescheduled.
In reviewing The SEEAC remains committed to monitor closely and provide the audit programme proposed each year, the committee looks at whether it constructive challenge to management in its drive for safe and reliable believes key risks facing the company have been appropriately addressed.
The SEEAC has spent considerable time over the The forward programme of internal audit work was reviewed by the audit past year both in terms of understanding and monitoring key group risks and SEEA committees during the year.
Additionally it continued to monitor the groups The general auditor met privately with the committee once during the year, response to the 26 recommendations that were made in BPs without the presence of executive management or the external auditors.
In investigation report the Bly Report into the tragic accident in April 2010 addition, the committee chair holds regular meetings with the general and visited upstream and downstream operations in the US and Angola auditor between committee meetings.
and downstream sites in the US and UK.
The committee reviewed with the general auditor the number and expertise In particular, we would highlight our reviews of key group risks, and of his teams staff resources.
The committee was satisfied that internal audit associated risk management in: drilling and maintenance of wells: had resources sufficient to full the functions role, that it had the appropriate contractor management: non-operated joint ventures: re and explosion access it required to information and that management had responded to the risk at facilities and pipelines and shipping.
These in-depth reviews have results of audit findings in a timely manner.
taken place during our regular meetings with executive management.
Other activities In the Upstream we have looked at risks and environmental issues arising One of the joint meetings with the SEEAC was held to review the annual in connection with, fracking operations during a visit to our East Texas certication report of compliance with the BP code of conduct which is onshore operations.
Other visits have been made to offshore Gulf of signed by the group chief executive.
During the year the committee monitors Mexico, Houston and Angola.
In the Downstream, members of the non-compliance with the BP code of conduct through quarterly reports by committee have visited the companys paraxylene manufacturing facility the group ethics and compliance officer.
At a further joint meeting with the in Texas, the Texas City renery and the Bunceeld terminal in the UK.
SEEAC, the committee reviewed the work of the ethics and compliance Duane Wilsons independent perspective of the companys response to function and its programme for 2013. the Baker Panels recommendations following the re and explosion at the The companys employee concerns programme, OpenTalk, has been Texas City renery in 2005 was completed in May when he delivered his adopted by the committee for whistle-blower monitoring, and all financial final report to SEEAC.
We were pleased to engage him to work, in a issues that have been agged through the programme are reviewed by the global capacity, with the Downstream business.
He continues to deliver committee.
The committee also receives quarterly updates on fraud and reports to SEEAC when requested.
We were pleased to complete the engagement of Carl Sandlin in June to report independently to SEEAC on the implementation of the Bly Report Committee evaluation recommendations.
Carl Sandlin brings a vast amount of experience from Each year the audit committee examines its performance and effectiveness.
his management of drilling operations during his career at ExxonMobil.
He In 2012, the committee used a survey covering similar questions to 2011 in will also report to the committee on his observations of process safety order to identify trends.
Key areas covered included the clarity of its role and culture in the Upstream.
responsibilities, the balance of skills and knowledge among its members and the quality and timeliness of information received.
Specic areas identied We also welcomed Professor Dame Ann Dowling who brings deep for focus in 2013 included committee training and focus on the length and experience in technology and engineering to the committee from format of materials.
Paul Anderson Committee chair 122 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance implementation as well as other safety-related improvements that had Committee members been made following the explosion at the neighbouring terminal in 2005.
Paul Anderson committee chair Admiral Frank Bowman 2012 committee activities Antony Burgmans Safety, operations and environment Cynthia Carroll The committee received regular reports from the S&OR function, Sir William Castell retired from the committee 12 April 2012 including quarterly reports prepared for executive management on the Professor Dame Ann Dowling joined the committee 3 February 2012 groups health, safety and environmental performance and operational integrity.
These included quarter-by-quarter measures of personal and Committee role and structure process safety, environmental and regulatory compliance and audit The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs findings.
Operational risk and performance forms a large part of the executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial committees agenda.
The S&OR function has intervention rights in all risk, including monitoring process safety management, and receive aspects of the groups technical and operational activities, and the assurance that they are appropriate in design and effective in committee sought evidence that this was working in practice.
committees visits, as mentioned above, provided opportunities to discuss with local staff the interaction between line managers and embedded The committee met six times in 2012 including three joint meetings with S&OR staff, and where change had occurred as a result.
the audit committee, at one of which the general auditors report on internal control and risk management systems for the year was reviewed During the year the committee received specic reports on the in preparation for the boards report to shareholders in the annual report.
companys management of risks in shipping, wells, pipelines facilities, In that joint meeting the committees reviewed the internal audit contractor management and non-operated joint ventures and also programme for the year ahead to ensure both committees endorsed the reviewed re and explosion risk at facilities.
The SEEAC and audit committee worked together, through these risks, and risk management and mitigation, in depth with the their chairs and secretaries, to ensure that the agendas did not overlap or relevant executive management.
omit coverage of any key risks during the year.
When a fatality in the workforce occurs the committee reviews the In addition to the committee membership, SEEAC meetings were incident in depth before reporting back to the board.
The committee also attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president for reviewed specic incidents to understand root causes and actions being safety and operational risk S&OR and the representatives from internal taken to prevent recurrence.
There has been a particular focus on ensuring audit.
The external auditor also attended some of the meetings and was lessons learned are communicated widely across the company and not briefed on the other meetings by the chair and secretary to the just within the business segment in which the incident occurred.
The group general counsel also attended meetings.
The Upstream independent perspective committee scheduled private sessions for members only without the Monitoring the companys progress in implementing the 26 presence of executive management at the conclusion of each meeting to recommendations in the Bly Report is a key task for the committee discuss any issues arising and the quality of the meeting.
and it received regular updates, including written reports.
The BP board identied and engaged Carl Sandlin to provide further oversight and Committee processes assurance regarding the implementation of the Bly Report Information and advice recommendations.
He will track BPs progress in implementing the 26 The committee receives specic reports from the business segments but recommendations from the companys internal investigation of the also receives cross-business information from the functions.
These Deepwater Horizon accident and will independently assess the safety, include but are not limited to the safety and operational risk function, health and environmental work of global drilling operations.
As internal audit, group ethics and compliance and group security.
The appropriate, Carl Sandlin will share his observations of BPs upstream SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel if it process safety culture.
He will give regular updates directly to the SEEAC requires, on an unrestricted basis.
and presented his initial work plan to SEEAC in October.
He will meet with the committee at least twice a year.
Field trips and visits The committee extended its coverage and number of visits this year by Downstream independent perspective encouraging members to participate individually, or in groups, and report Since Duane Wilsons appointment by the board in 2007 as an back to the next full meeting.
Members have also presented at staff independent expert, he has provided an objective assessment of BPs training events, such as Admiral Bowman addressing a meeting of the progress in implementing the recommendations of the BP US Reneries leadership of the global wells organization GWO in Florida in July and the Independent Review Panel and assisted the company in improving committee chairman addressing senior leadership at the BP Academy at process safety performance at BPs five US reneries.
In his final report in MIT where Admiral Bowman also presented later in the year.
May, Duane Wilson advised that he had observed continued progress in process safety performance at each visit he has made to the five Upstream visits reneries.
At the same time, he also discussed work remaining to be In January the chairman and other members visited Houston to examine completed and areas requiring special emphasis and noted that some how GWO was monitoring and assuring the safety of drilling operations in aspects of implementing the Panels 10 recommendations require the Gulf of Mexico.
In May a committee member travelled offshore to the ongoing activity and hence could never be complete, but he considers the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico while other committee company to have appropriate systems and processes to continue its work members visited drilling and fracking operations in East Texas.
In August toward process safety leadership.
a committee member travelled to Angola and met with leadership there to receive briengs on implementation of OMS and other safety-related We were pleased to engage him beginning in May, to work with issues.
management on a worldwide basis to continue to embed process safety culture and learnings across the segment.
In this new role he will meet Downstream visits with the committee at least twice a year.
Considerable focus also continues to be placed on the Downstream and on the companys response to the BP US Reneries Independent Safety TNK-BP Review Panel recommendations.
In January members of the committee Each year the committee receives a report on the progress made in HSE visited the Texas City renery, accompanied by Duane Wilson, to review and process safety at TNK-BP, noting however that formal oversight of progress in risk management systems and OMS implementation.
During their HSE performance and policies is exercised by TNK-BPs own HSE this visit, committee members also visited the nearby petrochemicals committee.
It was reported that, whilst significant areas for improvement facility to observe the extent to which the BP US Reneries Independent remained, TNK-BP had continued to make progress in addressing the Safety Review Panel recommendations had been implemented in the main safety, ethical and environmental challenges confronting it since it petrochemicals context.
In December all members of the committee was formed in 2003.
The committee will continue to monitor progress visited the Bunceeld terminal in the UK and received briengs on OMS regularly until such time as the company completes its exit from TNK-BP.
Corporate governance 123 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
