24 Business review Corporate responsibility review We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement Our approach of health and safety management is sharing best practice and The Group acknowledges its obligation to ensure the responsible lessons learnt from incidents across all of the Groups companies.
operation of its business at all times, and is fully committed An alert system is in place that formally ensures key findings to sound and ethical business conduct in its interaction from incidents are quickly communicated to all operational with key stakeholders shareholders, employees, customers, sites and actions taken as appropriate.
Accidents, incidents and business partners and suppliers, governments and regulators, near misses are investigated, with actions generated to prevent communities and society, and the environment.
A Health, Safety and Environment Technical Group, The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining with representatives from across the Group, supports continual the Groups policies in this area, and the Chief Executive is improvement through the development and promotion of good accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Groups businesses health and safety practice.
Compliance audits are conducted using external consultancy The Board recognises that the long term success of the Group will rms, and all findings are subject to corrective action reviews be enhanced by a positive interaction with all our stakeholders, and to ensure closure.
has determined that the Groups corporate responsibility initiatives We continue to drive improvements in our process safety should be focused on the following key areas: management systems, by investing in automation, remote Health and safety operations and infrastructure, and also by improving our risk Employee support and development control systems, layers of protection, asset integrity, and culture.
With the exception of Mecar, all of our businesses are certied Environmental protection to the international health and safety management system Ethical business conduct OHSAS18001.
We intend that our corporate responsibility approach should be Safety is a major item for consideration by the Groups Risk fully embedded within our businesses, and our senior management Management Committee.
All businesses are required to produce bonus plan incorporates specic objectives in the above areas.
a risk register from which the top five health and safety risks and Further details of our approach are set out below.
improvement actions to reduce the risks to as low as reasonably practicable are reviewed on a monthly basis.
In the workplace The Group has committed to substantial investments in Health and safety manufacturing facilities that will, in addition to improving Our policy and practices productivity, improve the safety of the workforce by reducing the The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required levels of risk.
We apply particular attention to those facilities that in order to protect our employees, product end users and the compare unfavourably with their peers, and systems and processes general public, whilst achieving growth and maintaining leadership are in place to facilitate the sharing of information across the in the Groups chosen markets.
The Board believes that all incidents Group.
Our ongoing safety improvement activities are focused on and injuries are preventable, and that all employees have the right ensuring that our buildings, processes and products are as safe as to return home safely at the end of every working day.
The long reasonably practicable for our employees and product users.
term strategies we have adopted are designed to ensure that we continually improve our performance and reduce risk.
Our performance Energetic events The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety and Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we pay particular attention to environmental matters across the Group.
The Group Director of those where employees sustain injury due to an energetic event.
Safety reports directly to the Chief Executive, and is responsible for the effective administration and implementation of the Groups On 14 May 2012, an operator at our Mecar facility in Belgium health, safety and environment strategy.
The Group Director of suffered severe burns when a pyrotechnic composition ignited.
She Safety is a member of the Group Executive Committee and reports subsequently died from her injuries.
All production was stopped on the performance of all businesses against agreed targets and at Mecar following this incident, and an in-depth investigation was objectives.
The Chief Executive reports monthly to the Board on all instigated, led by a senior divisional director.
Findings were grouped key health and safety issues.
into two those relating to the root cause, and those relating to other peripheral arrangements or practices where it was found The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage their that further improvements in safety and working practices could health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor progress by be made.
Two Alerts were then issued to all Group companies, regular measurement, audit and review, and take additional action which stipulated the urgent actions required to identify and close where necessary.
Each Managing Director is responsible for the any gaps that might lead to a repeat incident, and these are being management of health and safety within their business, and for monitored to closure.
Mecar supported the operator and her family providing adequate resources to satisfy the Boards requirements.
through very difficult times, and we continue to extend our support All Managing Directors have health and safety related objectives and deepest sympathies to her family, friends and work colleagues.
incorporated within their annual bonus plan.
Managers in our businesses are required to enforce procedures, and to provide We had no energetic events during the year that caused significant leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive damage to buildings or equipment.
We emphasise the importance of Other lost time events individual responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the We collect and report lost time incident rates using the US organisation, and expect employees to report potential hazards, Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA rules, and to be involved in implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules we were pleased to see a significant improvement in performance and procedures.
from a rate of 1.28 lost time incidents per 100 employees last year Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 25 to 0.80 this year.
In absolute terms, this was a reduction from Development and training 50 lost time incidents last year to 32 this year.
We continue to address training and development requirements for employees at all levels within the organisation.
All of our businesses Our historical lost time accident rate performance per consider training needs for their employees at a local level, in order 100 employees is shown below: to ensure that they have the right skill base to deliver their five Lost time incident rate performance year strategic plan.
The Board also undertakes a detailed review of the future management requirements and succession plans as 2.0 part of the annual strategic planning process.
Specic plans have been developed in relation to sales and marketing, and engineering 1.5 resources, in order to identify the requirements for future recruitment and development of our existing employees in these areas, and to ensure that we have the right capabilities to meet our 1.0 future growth targets.
Our undergraduate year in industry placement scheme continues 0.5 to be successful, and we aim to extend this programme each year.
We are developing our graduate recruitment initiatives, and our acquisition of Roke, which has a well-established and highly 0 successful graduate programme, has been of considerable benefit 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in this area.
Our most common lost time injury types continue to be slips, trips Benets and falls, and strains and sprains.
We aim to provide all of our employees with an attractive and competitive benets package.
Most of our businesses offer Employees The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Groups occupational pension scheme arrangements, and our US employees receive health care.
A number of our businesses offer health employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a screening services and other health-related initiatives such as working environment that reects and rewards this.
The Group now stop-smoking clinics.
has 4,193 2011: 4,679 employees based in seven countries.
The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share schemes Employment practices The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities for all in order that they can share in the future success of the Group, and we therefore offer savings-related share plans to our UK and employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, sexual US employees.
orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, disability or age.
The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour Communications rights and legislation requirements in each country in which it The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through operates, and in practice, often exceeds these.
Our employment meetings including team briengs and works councils and practices policies are introduced at newly-acquired businesses at in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the the earliest opportunity after they join the Group.
progress of the Group and the companies in which they work.
We also engage with our employees through representative bodies The Board currently has two female members, and we remain and trade unions.
committed to a minimum of at least 25% female representation on the Board.
We also recognise the importance of promoting diversity Employee surveys are undertaken in relation to specic matters, across the Group.
such as health and safety, from time to time.
Gender diversity A Group magazine, Chemring-i, is published on a quarterly basis and distributed to all of our employees.
In the environment Our policy and practices Male 68% The Board believes that protecting the environment by minimising Female 32% our environmental impact will help to secure the long term future of our businesses.
All of the Groups businesses are certied to the environmental management system ISO14001, which requires the setting of Ethnic diversity environmental goals and objectives focused on local aspects and impacts.
In addition, we set expectations and monitor performance across the Group.
Land quality White 83% The Chemring Energetic Devices formerly Scot facility, which is Non-white 17% based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, is located on a site which has superfund status under the US contaminated land CERCLA regime.
We continue to work with external consultants and the regulatory authorities to ensure that the legal obligations of the business in relation to this matter are fully satisfied.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Incidents per 100 employees 26 Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Our Mecar business in Belgium has been working with its local Waste regulator for some time to remediate historical contamination.
Our total waste generation increased during the year as a result of It is anticipated that this will be an ongoing activity.
our ongoing construction and renewal programmes.
The Group carries a 1.5 million provision in respect of these 2012 2011 2010 2009 tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes pre-acquisition environmental liabilities, which the Board considers waste waste waste waste to be adequate see note 25 of the financial statements.
Recycled, non-hazardous 1,804 1,684 712 Not available Incidents Recycled, hazardous 387 415 369 Not available There were no significant environmental incidents in the year.
Not recycled, Performance non-hazardous 1,028 1,018 1,161 Not available Energy and emissions Not recycled, hazardous 469 388 360 Not available We have calculated that business travel represents less than 3% of our overall carbon footprint, and we therefore focus our efforts Total 3,688 3,505 2,602 1,876 on energy utilisation in our facilities.
We do not include emissions from our supply chain, nor use our disposal of products, in our Water carbon footprint calculation.
Our absolute water consumption varies each year within a narrow tolerance band, principally due to changes in product mix.
We are increasing our efforts to address energy conservation and thus indirect emissions.
All sites have analysed their top energy 2012 2011 2010 2009 consuming plant or buildings, and created energy reduction 3 3 3 3 m m m m programmes for the top five.
Total water Our total emissions in carbon dioxide equivalents reduced during consumption 1,647,000 1,441,000 1,550,000 1,762,000 the year, as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 In the community tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes Source CO CO CO CO CO 2 2 2 2 2 Helping others The Board recognises that each of the Groups businesses has an Electricity 44,576 46,459 38,303 36,334 29,128 important role to play in its local community.
Gas 13,630 14,676 14,033 12,512 12,384 The Board operates a charitable policy, which confirms its Oil 5,726 7,222 3,111 2,008 2,351 commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus Total 63,932 68,357 55,447 50,854 43,863 on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local communities in which the Groups businesses operate.
Each This resulted in a further improvement in our overall carbon business has its own locally held charity budget, and at a Group intensity: level, charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the Executive Committee.
Examples of support provided during 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 the year include: Total emissions tonnes CO 63,932 68,357 55,447 50,854 43,863 Donations to a range of charities including Help for Heroes, 2 SSAFA, The Army Benevolent Fund, Supporting Royal Marines, Group revenue Queen Alexandra Hospital Home for Ex-Service Personnel, million 740 730 571 504 354 Houses for Heroes Appeal, various health and cancer charities, Tonnes of CO 2 local hospitals and schools.
per million Sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical and of revenue 86 94 97 101 124 Mechanical Engineers REME Field Gun Crew, the Red Devils, Group revenue and emissions excludes in-year acquisitions the Royal Artillery Gold Cup Day all part of Team Army, and the Combined Services Under 23 Rugby Team.
All UK facilities participate in the CRC Energy efficiency Scheme, with the exception of Chemring Energetics UK at Ardeer in Scotland, Sponsorship of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge.
which operates under a Climate Change Agreement.
In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages The Group participated in the 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project.
and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in the local community, where appropriate.
During the year, our employees donated their time and services on a wide range of projects, several of which had an educational bias.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27 The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, Our US businesses have also adopted an ethical compliance notably including the sponsorship of various local schools.
programme to satisfy US Government requirements for ethical The Group also has relationships with several universities, training for employees, compliance audits, a condential reporting whereby we provide funding for students research activities.
line for employees, and related investigation procedures.
With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities on The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place the local community, at locations where our operations may which enable all employees to raise concerns, in confidence, inconvenience neighbours through product proong, we liaise with about possible improprieties.
These arrangements reect the local residents to minimise any impact.
We are also cognisant of the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010. potential impact of our operations on the local environment, and we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
In the marketplace Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services The Groups vision is to become the leading producer of protection systems and energetic products for the global defence market.
The scope of the Groups activities has broadened signicantly in recent years, particularly with regards to the supply of components and sub-systems for various types of munitions, and there is increasing demand for the supply to our customers of third party products.
Consequently, the Board has adopted a Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, which provides guidance to all stakeholders on the products and services that the Group will supply, to which customers and to which countries, and sets out a clear denition of what we will not supply.
All Group businesses are required to comply with this policy, which addresses both legal and ethical considerations with regards to certain products.
Ethics and business conduct The Group has adopted a Global Code of Business Principles, which requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties who act on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable business conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate.
The Managing Directors of each business are required to report to the Chief Executive on compliance with the Global Code of Business Principles on an annual basis.
Anti-bribery and corruption Following implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Group adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, which incorporates all of our anti-corruption policies and procedures.
Our anti-bribery programme now incorporates the following: Requirements for bribery risk assessments to be carried out as part of normal operating procedures.
Group-wide policies and procedures on the appointment of all sales partners and other third party advisers, stipulating due diligence and contractual requirements, approval levels, and monitoring and review processes.
Regular training for management and employees working within commercial, sales and marketing, finance and human resource functions.
Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
