Report on Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee Tim Clark Chairman Steve Johnson Mark Richardson Jonathan Short Richard Cotton will join the Committee upon his appointment to the Board, replacing Jonathan Short.
The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director, including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, pension arrangements and share options.
The Committee will select, appoint and set the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The Committee will ensure that the contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The statement of remuneration policy and details of each Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee Tim Clark Chairman Steve Johnson Mark Richardson Jonathan Short Richard Cotton will join the Committee upon his appointment to the Board, replacing Jonathan Short.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board and giving consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior Executives.
Where changes are required, it is also responsible for the identification, selection and proposal to the Board for approval of persons suitable for appointment or reappointment to the Board, whether as Executive or Non-Executive Directors and to seek approval from the Remuneration Committee to the remuneration and terms and conditions of service of any proposed Executive Director appointment.
The Chairman of the Committee presents reports to the Board as appropriate to enable the Board as a whole to agree the appointments of new Directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as required and as determined by its members.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors is available for inspection at the Companys Head Office during normal working hours.
They are also available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Appointment to the Board During the year the Nominations Committee considered the skill sets of the existing Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee also considered the overall make-up of the Board following Jonathan Shorts decision to retire at the forthcoming AGM, and decided that it was appropriate to appoint a new NonExecutive Director to replace Jonathan Short.
The Nominations Committee appointed an external recruitment consultant to provide a shortlist of candidates to the Committee.
Following a rigorous interview process, the Committee recommended to the Board that Richard Cotton be appointed to the Board.
Richard Cotton will join the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director in July 2012.
The Nominations Committee believes the Board benefits from this appointment.
Shareholder relations The Board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all shareholders and acknowledges the importance of an open dialogue by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors with its institutional shareholders.
The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an important part in presenting all shareholders with an assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Company has an active dialogue with its shareholders through a programme of investor meetings which include formal presentation of the full and half year results.
The Executive Directors have participated in investor conferences and meetings during the year, throughout the United Kingdom, and also in the United States and the Netherlands.
The Board also welcomes the interest of private investors and believes that, in addition to the Annual Report and the Companys website, the Annual General Meeting is an ideal forum at which to communicate with investors and the Board encourages their participation.
At each Board Meeting, the Board is updated on any shareholding meetings that have taken place, and any views expressed or issues raised by the shareholders in these meetings.
Any queries raised by a shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are answered immediately by whoever is best placed on the Board to do so.
Directors are introduced to shareholders at the AGM, including the identification of Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen.
The number of proxy votes cast in the resolution is announced at the AGM.
Risk management and internal control The Group operates a rigorous system of risk management and internal control, which is designed to ensure that the possibility of misstatement or loss is kept to a minimum.
There is a comprehensive system in place for financial reporting and the Board receives a number of reports to enable it to carry out these functions in the most efficient manner.
These procedures include the preparation of management accounts, forecast variance analysis and other ad hoc reports.
There are clearly defined authority limits throughout the Group, including those matters which are reserved specifically for the Board.
26 The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces and for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is also responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group's risk management and internal control systems.
The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of risk management and internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work carried out by the Groups Store Compliance team.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
A formal risk identification and assessment exercise has been carried out resulting in a risk framework document summarising the key risks, potential impact and the mitigating factors or controls in place.
The Board have a stated policy of reviewing this risk framework at least once a year or in the event of a material change.
The risk identification process also considered significant non-financial risks.
During the reviews, the Directors: challenged the framework to ensure that the list of significant risks to business objectives were still valid and complete: considered new and emerging risks to business objectives and included them in the framework if significant: ensured that any changes in the impact or likelihood of the risks were reflected in the risk framework: and ensured that there we re appropriate action plans in place to address unacceptable risks.
The results of the exercise have been communicated to the Board and the Audit Committee.
This was in the form of a summary report which included: a prioritised summary of the key risks and their significance: any changes in the list of significant risks or their impact and likelihood since the last assessment: new or emerging risks that may become significant objectives in the future: progress on action plans to address significant risks: and any actual or potential control failures or weaknesses during the period including near misses.
During the course of its review of the risk management and internal control systems, the Board has not identified, nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
The principal areas of risk that the Group faces are considered below.
Self storage market risk The UK economy has continued its slow recovery from the recession.
The demand for self storage has slowed since the liquidity crisis began in August 2007, however we believe that the structural need for self storage remains.
We saw an increase in demand in the financial year, with move-ins in our wholly owned portfolio up 9% on the prior year.
Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to other self storage markets such as the United States and Australia, and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth of branded self storage on main roads in good locations has historically been limited by the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
The lack of availability of credit within the economy has further reduced this rate of growth since the start of the downturn, and over the last couple of years new store openings within the sector have slowed to a trickle.
Our performance during the downturn has been relatively resilient, although not immune.
We believe that the resilience of our performance is due to a combination of factors including: a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties: a focus on London and the South East, which has proved more resilient during the downturn and where the drivers in the self storage market are at their strongest and the barriers to competition are at their highest: the strength of operational and sales management: continuing innovation to deliver the highest levels of customer service: the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness and online strength: and strong cash flow generation and high operating margins.
