Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 44 #PBSE PG EJSFDUPST Martin Scicluna BCom, FCA Toby Courtauld MA, MRICS Chairman, Non-Executive Chief Executive Appointed to the Board in October 2008 and With MEPC from 1991 to 2002, joined the became Chairman in March 2009.
Non-Executive Group and appointed to the Board in 2002.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of A Non-Executive Director of Liv-ex Limited and of Lloyds Banking Group and previously Chairman the London Board of Royal & Sun Alliance and a of Deloitte from 1995 to 2007.
Age 61. member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Forum.
Member of the Policy Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
and President of the British Property Federation and a director of The New West End Company.
Charles Irby FCA Jonathan Nicholls BA Hons, ACA, FCT Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of North Atlantic Smaller Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Companies Investment Trust and QBE Insurance Committee of SIG plc and DS Smith Plc.
Formerly Group Limited and formerly Chairman of Aberdeen Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc from 2006 Asset Management.
Appointed to the Board in 2004. to 2008 and previously Group Finance Director of Age 66.
Appointed to the Board in 2009.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member of the Remuneration and Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Annual review Financials Governance 45 Nick Sanderson BA Hons, ACA Neil Thompson BSc Hons, MRICS Finance Director Portfolio Director Formerly head of Real Estate Corporate Finance With Derwent Valley from 1996 to 2002 and Advisory at Deloitte, previously with Nomura, previously with Legal & General.
Joined the Group in Lehman Brothers and UBS.
Joined the Group 2002 and appointed to the Board in 2006.
Member and appointed to the Board in 2011.
Member of the Management Board and Management of the Finance Committee of the British Property Executive of the British Council of Ofces and Federation.
Council Member and Member of the Operations Working Group of the Westminster Property Association.
Phillip Rose MA, FFin, FSI Jonathan Short BSc, ACIB Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive officer of Alpha Real Capital and a Founding Partner and Executive Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Hermes Property Unit Internos Real Investors LLP, a pan-European Trust.
Head of Real Estate for ABN Amro from 2002 real estate investment management business.
to 2005 and formerly Chief Operating officer of Non-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group plc, TrizecHahn Europe and Managing Director of Lend Independent Director to the Grosvenor Shopping Lease Global Investments.
Appointed to the Board Centre Fund and Trustee of the Urban Land Institute.
Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 46 0VS QFPQMF PX EP XF PQFSBUF 0VS DPNQBOZ DVMUVSF MJFT BU UIF IFBSU PG PVS BCJMJUZ UP BDIJFWF PVS TUSBUFHJD QSJPSJUJFT U ESJWFT PVS PQFSBUJPOBM TVDDFTT BOE IFMQT VT BUUSBDU EFWFMPQ NPUJWBUF BOE SFUBJO PVS UBMFOUFE FNQMPZFFT Our culture is entrepreneurial and pragmatic, with a Our team high level of involvement from senior and executive Our team brings together specialist skills used to management and an emphasis on cross discipline manage our portfolio on a building by building basis teamwork.
We recognise the benets of such a to ensure the achievement of our strategic priorities positive culture and work hard to maintain it through: across the life-cycle of our buildings.
a at management structure: For more on what our teams have done during the year see: regular and effective communication with an open door policy: Investment management pages 26 to 29 Development management pages 30 and 31 regular meetings held weekly, monthly and quarterly across the various teams on different Asset management pages 32 and 33 aspects of the business: Financial management pages 34 and 35 encouraging our people to be innovative, to think Employee profile number of employees outside the box and have a can do attitude: as at 31 March 2012 a disciplined approach providing clear policies Executive Directors and procedures and instilling a strong sense of 3 Asset Management responsibility for active risk management: Investment Management 25 Development Management a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects Financial Management 80 30 success being based upon the contribution and employees smooth interaction of every member of the team: recruiting high quality individuals with a 15 7 constructive mindset and valuable experience: matching the right people to the right roles and taking action where there are gaps: an effective performance management system: Diversity Our culture is grounded in mutual respect providing well constructed and fair reward systems and non-discrimination irrespective of age, disability, designed to incentivise superior performance and gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or align employees and shareholders interests: educational background.
ensuring continual improvement of the skills and Whilst our policy remains that selection should competency of our employees at all levels and be based on the best person for the role, we across all disciplines through appropriate training recognise the benets of gender diversity and will and development courses: and continue to ensure that this is taken into account fostering a friendly environment which engenders when considering any particular appointment.
Where possible, we support part-time working and exible hours with 17% of employees enjoying some form of exible working practices.
Annual review Financials Governance 47 Toby Courtauld, Chief Executive Employee profile age and gender diversity Retention, training and development Our ability to attract and retain talented and committed 1930 7 3140 individuals is based on three key building blocks: 12 4150 an effective performance management system: 50 a well-constructed and fair reward system designed to incentivise superior performance and 25 36 align employees and shareholders interests: and continual improvement of the skills and competency of our employees at all levels and Women across all disciplines through appropriate training Men and development courses.
Employee profile average period of service 34 % 10 46 8 6 Women as a percentage at 4 senior management level 2 30% 34 0 2010 2011 2012 80 employees 46 Executive Directors Development Management 70% Asset Management Financial Management Investment Management Joining us Women as a percentage at middle management level All new employees receive a bespoke induction to the 21% Group, including formal meetings with different teams, property tours and training in the GPE way, to help them understand our culture from the very start.
New joiners also complete a questionnaire in their first year to: 79% identify any ways in which their experience with the Company differed from their expectations: Women as a percentage at junior management level determine any processes or practices in operation at their previous place of work that we could usefully introduce to the Group: 40% review their understanding of their role and our 60% expectations of them: and ascertain their aspirations for their own personal development.
