Strategic review Business and financial review Our people Governance Financial statements Other information our people our people create v alue for our shareholders Hammersons people create value Performance and talent management Leadership and organisation for our shareholders through their During 2012 we have developed talent from 2012 saw the conclusion of the first phase skills, knowledge, behaviour and within Hammerson, as well as injecting new of Hammersons Leadership Development commitment in acquiring, managing, external perspectives from other organisations.
Programme and the broadening of the Group developing, supporting and adding In particular, the exit from the London office Executive Committee GEC to include greater value to our assets.
portfolio was managed professionally in a way representation from UK Retail, France and to ensure continuity, while also enabling some Human Resources.
This diversity of perspectives The way we manage, engage with talented individuals to be deployed where their has contributed to clearer decision-making and develop our people makes the skills can be applied to other key areas of the and accountability for the delivery of the best of their skills and in turn delivers Hammerson business.
Building on previous appointments during The Leadership Development Programme 2011, we have also successfully recruited was positively received leading to greater talent with a retail property focus including personal ownership for driving improvements Iain Mitchell as our UK Commercial Director.
in the business, and better cooperation across Graduate employment remains a key area of functional and geographical lines.
focus to ensure fresh ideas and to build for Throughout 2012 we have also further the future.
To support our focus on effective in-sourced UK Shopping Centre Management management of performance, Hammerson in order to gain greater control over customer has implemented reviews of performance experience together with restructuring our and potential reviews across the business to marketing function to achieve greater identify talent and ensure that succession economies of scale and integration between and development are actively managed.
Partnership We have seen continued efforts to share best practices and integrate our approaches across the Company.
A pan-European Induction event has been launched, resulting in excellent feedback from delegates.
This event ensures that all new employees have an holistic view of the Companys vision, structure and operations, as well as building relationships with colleagues in other functions and locations that can help share best practices in the future.
Team events are actively encouraged to build morale and team spirit, Hammerson provided as well as supporting charities and local a great opportunity to communities.
Hammerson was the leading develop my career within property fundraiser for the Movember our Retail Parks team charitys 2012 campaign.
following the sale of the London offices as one door closes, another opens James Rowbotham DeVeloPMeNt MANAgeR 18 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Business and financial review Our people Governance Financial statements Other information % 71 EmpLoyEEs: 71% of employees and contractors have completed CR training aLL EmpLoyEEs Male % 46 The induction Female % 54 programme painted a clear picture group ExEcuTivE commiTTEE of how business Male areas across the UK 8 and France work Female 1 together with a clear vision board mEmbErs Aurlie Siha Male ASSet MANAgeR 8 Female 2 as at 31 December 2012 Diversity and equality Sustainability and Development The appointment of Gwyn Burr to the Board Educating our staff about the benefits has contributed to increased gender diversity of sustainability remains a core part of at the Board level.
We are committed to equal our CR strategy.
In 2012, our accredited opportunities and believe that having an environmental training course was completed inclusive culture and diverse workforce is good by 71% of employees and contractors for our business.
Our equal opportunities at our shopping centres, and in 2013, we policy reflects our commitment to objectively will be forging even closer links between assess, recruit and reward based on merit.
sustainability and individual performance through the launch of a new skills-based At a glance  scheme.
Hammerson currently employs 297 people Leadership training was a key focus for 2012, in the UK and 110 in France.
with our Chief Executive attending a Climate Leadership course at Cambridge University, As at 31st December 2012, 246 The GEC in addition to Senior Management employees owned shares or participated in completing our 12-month leadership-training the Groups share plans.
We are also proposing to Hammerson is formally accredited as an introduce a broader management development Investor in People.
programme during 2013 to build upon the success of the leadership programme.
Hammerson reports on a number of The Leadership Development performance indicators relating to Our objective of presenting new employees Programme was a great opportunity employees as part of the Global Reporting with a comprehensive understanding of our to build closer relationships across the Initiative.
business and their role within this context has business and reinforce the idea that we led to a complete overhaul of our corporate The remuneration of the Directors is set are working as one induction programme.
The two-day course out on the Directors Remuneration Report now includes interactive sessions on our Sarah Booth on pages 62 to 77. geNeRAl CouNSel AND policies regarding sustainability, anti-bribery CoMPANy SeCRetARy and corruption, code of conduct, whistleblowing, health and safety and IT.
