Corporate responsibility and sustainability Corporate responsibility and sustainability is fundamental to the achievement of the Groups strategy through the implementation of the strategic objectives and by underpinning Cobhams values Corporate responsibility and sustainability CR&S is fundamental to the achievement of Cobhams strategy through the implementation of the Groups strategic objectives, shown on pages 10 and 11, and by underpinning Cobhams values.
The following section explains how CR&S forms an integral part of Cobhams business model and future success in terms of: what is made, how it is made, how progress is sustained, performance management and next steps.
What is made Cobham manufactures products and delivers services that protect lives and livelihoods and generate a number of environmental benefits.
Examples include slip rings used in wind turbines, 3D electromagnetic design software to improve wind turbine design and composite flywheel energy storage devices.
Providing faster and more comfortable flights Cobhams Aviation Services business has introduced the use of kits for its BAe146 aircraft in Australia to The size, weight and power consumption SWaP enable its jet aircraft to operate out of unsealed and gravel airstrips.
The gravel kit modification improves of Cobhams products are fundamental to the fuel efficiency from increased point to point flying, with faster flights in safe, quiet jets for mining workers, competitiveness of the Group because customers creating a happier and more productive workforce.
and end users want to maximise the equipment that expensive platforms such as aircraft, satellites and unmanned aerial vehicles can carry.
How it is made Secondly, EiD is introducing a new Enterprise Customers and end users demand reduced Smaller, lighter products require less factory Resource Planning IT system to lock in these installation and operating costs, particularly fuel space, less packaging and are cheaper to transport world class processes and provide the information burn, for systems that are likely to be in service to customers.
As products become more needed to run the business more effectively for decades.
This is increasingly important as modular, installation time is reduced and and facilitate continuous improvement.
Cobham shifts its portfolio towards commercial savings on material costs and reduced weight markets where environmental issues are given are also realised.
Thirdly, as additional manufacturing space even more prominence.
becomes available in the principal manufacturing However, products that embody SWaP goals can locations, opportunities are created to consolidate still be made inefficiently, generating unnecessary Cobhams geographic footprint, reducing the waste, energy consumption, manufacturing and number of smaller production facilities and assembly space.
As such, Cobham endeavours to associated operating costs.
not only design products that reduce SWaP, but also to engage the entire value chain, including While EiD is focused on meeting the needs of R&D, supply chain management, assembly, Cobhams customers though improved quality, distribution, operation, and end-of-life to cost, delivery and responsiveness, it also provides ensure that processes are efficient by design.
the additional benefits of reducing environmental impacts and increasing workforce capabilities Reducing fuel burn In 2010, Cobham embarked on its EiD programme through significant levels of training, while providing Reductions in size and weight lead to lower material to transform how the Group operates across 14 a range of career development opportunities.
usage and significant reductions in costs, such as principal manufacturing locations, representing fuel burn for aircraft, due to lower aerodynamic approximately 80% of Group revenue.
EiD is Cobham is also taking the opportunity to integrate drag and weight.
One manufacturer reported that comprised of three key elements.
Firstly, it standardised, world class responsible business Cobhams lower profile, lighter SATCOM antenna implements a set of standardised, world class practices such as design for environment in would save more than $20,000 per aircraft every year compared to another product.
processes in engineering and project R&D, sustainable procurement in supply chain management, supply chain and production management and S|H|E safety, health and systems that are leading to higher production environment in production and integration activity.
yields, less waste, shorter lead times, smaller production areas and less energy consumption during production.
30 Cobham plc ?lls j Pcnmpr lb ?aamslrq 0.
0 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Cobham recognised for carbon disclosure Cobham featured in the CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership index for the first time, putting it in the top 10% of the FTSE 350.
Cobhams submission can be viewed at www.
Managing bribery and corruption risks In response to the increasing global legislation surrounding the use of hazardous chemicals, Cobhams policy of zero tolerance towards bribery and Cobhams policy is to eliminate or substitute corruption is a fundamental part of the Code.
The Group hazardous chemicals for less harmful substitutes also recognises the potential bribery and corruption risks where they do not adversely impact product posed by the markets in which it operates and, in particular, the potential bribery and corruption risks posed by the use performance or reliability.
Accordingly, Cobhams ABAC policy requires each third party intermediary to undergo Cobhams Aviation Services business works to a comprehensive, robust due diligence and approval process optimise the use of aircraft it owns and those before it is engaged.
The process requires scrutiny and approval from an independent body, the Advisor Approval it operates on behalf of its customers, as well Board chaired by the Legal Function and, in certain as its operating bases through its operations circumstances, from the Executive Directors.
Proper and maintenance programmes and by assessment and management of ABAC risks is also an increasing the use of synthetics in its training integral part of Cobhams M&A activity, both preand programmes.
These activities ensure Cobham post-acquisition, including a review of the markets in which a target operates, its use of intermediaries, and the prompt delivers a safe, reliable and efficient service subsequent implementation of Cobham ABAC policies.
How progress is sustained Cobham proudly states that The most important thing we build is trust, which requires that all we do be underpinned by a foundation of ethical behaviour, with employees empowered to always do the right thing.
The Corporate Framework and Cobham operates in a dynamic global Code of Business Conduct Code govern the way marketplace, therefore strategic workforce Cobham personnel conduct business and their planning is vital to ensure that future business relationships with others.
Specific policies and needs are identified, competency gaps identified programmes address material issues, such and plans established.
Technical Employee Customer as anti-bribery and anti-corruption ABAC, Innovation Engagement Satisfaction international trade compliance and US Having the right technical and management government contracting and can be found talent is important, but Cobham also wants on Cobhams CR&S website at its people to work in accordance with the www.
Groups values of excellence, integrity, commitment, innovation, cooperation and Cobham must continue to retain and attract accountability.
Cobhams goal for safety, Teamwork CR&S talent to provide a sustainable skill base for health and environment is zero harm and Recognising outstanding contributions products that stay in service for decades.
The Group aspires to have this talent, continual improvements to what is no work-related injuries or illnesses and In 2009 the biennial Sir Alan Cobham Awards were introduced to help recognise the outstanding made and how it is made are not sustainable.
to minimise environmental impacts where contributions that are being made every day by practicable.
The Groups S|H|E policy, which Cobham employees in five different categories.
is available on the CR&S website, and Across the Group 500 employees were recognised standardised management approach covers its in 2009, increasing to 620 in 2011. own operations and those of its supply chain.
Cobham plc ?lls j Pcnmpr lb ?aamslrq 0.
0 31 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Cobham contributes to the wider community Cobham has commissioned an external assurance through the course of its business by creating provider, KPMG, to provide limited assurance of employment, offering apprenticeship its 2012 carbon data.
The assurance statement opportunities to young people and by investing will be made available on the CR&S section in good causes that are relevant to the business.
Cobhams policy is to support science, technology, engineering and maths education, armed forces Performance management and next steps and ex-services personnel charities, disaster relief, Two of Cobhams six KPIs are about people: and other employee based causes in the voluntary staff turnover and staff safety.
To have communities around our sites.
a sustainable business, Cobham must attract, develop and retain superior talent and manage Cobham also encourages employees to get it across the business.
The measure of voluntary involved in activities, not only to help the staff turnover provides insight to retention, with a community but also to foster a team spirit target turnover of less than 10%.
This level reflects and a positive working culture.
Employees get the normal upper range of turnover experienced involved in fundraising activities and by donating across the many geographic locations that time and expertise to help good causes.
Cobham operates in, with an appropriate level of churn to refresh the talent base.
Data verification Cobham collects data annually on CR&S KPIs from Cobham wants its employees to work in its wholly-owned operational subsidiaries.
This a safe, healthy environment, with a goal excludes Cobhams joint ventures which are not of no major accidents.
under operational control, sites with less than five people, sites leased to tenants, vacant Donating time and effort for charity properties being disposed of, and any business Cobham Antenna Systems employees donated units that have been closed or divested during their time and efforts in support of Help for Heroes.
the course of the year for which there is less than Cobham employees successfully completed six months of reported data.
100% of Cobhams challenging navigational tasks and raised over wholly-owned operations by turnover have been 12,500 for charity.
reviewed internally to identify omissions and significant variations i. e. 5% from the prior year.
2012 2011 Group KPIs Target actual actual Voluntary staff turnover 10% 8.7% 8.4% The measure of voluntary staff turnover provides insight to retention, with a target that reflects the normal upper range of turnover experienced across the many geographic locations that Cobham operates in, with an appropriate level of churn to refresh the talent base.
Key next steps A certain degree of voluntary turnover is inevitable in a time of change in markets and in the Companys organisation.
Regular employee feedback channels are being developed to ensure that Cobham understands the reasons for voluntary turnover so that it can retain its key talent.
Major accident incidence rate 0 666 465 Cobhams goal to achieve zero harm, i. e. no major accidents, was introduced in 2009.
It requires changes to policies, procedures and practices, particularly as a number of the companies acquired by Cobham over the past decade have been smaller, entrepreneurial businesses.
Improvements are showing through in terms of enhanced levels of reporting, but not yet in the accident rate.
The increase in major accidents is also in part due to increased activity levels on sites being integrated.
A strategic review of health and safety was conducted in 2012 and the findings are currently being acted on as set out below.
Key next steps Cobham has set out a new strategy to support the achievement of its zero harm goal.
This includes the establishment of an Executive led steering committee, integrating health and safety into the strategic planning process, conducting additional training of line management and building an efficient and effective practitioner base.
per 100,000 employees 32 Cobham plc ?lls j Pcnmpr lb ?aamslrq 0.
0 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 2012 2011 Key focus areas and performance indicators KPIs Target actual actual Ethics Code of Business Conduct training 100% 99% 99% Cobham continues to push for the highest levels of awareness in relation to the conduct of its business activities, targeting 100% training completion on an annual basis.
Key next steps Cobhams process for capturing training activity regarding people joining and leaving the company is being improved to help ensure that the reported training completion levels are accurate.
In addition, businesses and people that have not completed the training will be named when the Group Executive reviews the KPI on a monthly basis.
Employee development Number of senior appointments sourced internally 30% 30% 30% Cobham continues to develop and recruit talent from within wherever possible.
The EiD programme has given a number of development opportunities and is looking to reabsorb this talent back into the business when the programme ends.
Expansion of the Graduate Development Programme into the US has proven successful with 18 US graduates now on the scheme.
A new learning management system was launched in late 2012 linked to the Groups 24 competencies and has already been used by employees on a self-service basis to develop themselves in accordance with their performance development objectives.
Key next steps Cobham is considering expanding its Graduate Development Programme into Australia, developing an accredited Cobham Management Programme, further expanding its learning management system and improving the accuracy of its strategic workforce planning activity.
Energy and climate change 1 2 Total energy consumption MWh m turnover 900 1,064 945 Total greenhouse gas emissions tCO2 m N A 289.5 260.7 Cobhams energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions are mainly driven by the Groups use of aviation fuel in the Aviation Services business, which accounts for 91%.
As Aviation Services successfully grows, by operating more aircraft or achieving higher levels of utilisation, energy consumption increases, which largely accounts for the increase from 2011 to 2012.
Increased levels of activity associated with integrating and closing manufacturing sites have also contributed to this figure, which is a temporary feature.
Key next steps Cobham is continuing to integrate smaller business units into its principal manufacturing locations, which will reduce its facility energy and greenhouse emissions footprint still further.
In addition, the Group is including environmental performance within its strategic planning process, which will provide greater visibility and monitoring of the initiatives being undertaken at the site level.
Total energy consumption includes electricity, natural gas, heating oil and all aviation fuel 2 Reduced from reported 998 MWh m turnover in 2011 due to incorrect conversion factor being used Further detail on Cobhams policies, performance and actions can be found on the CR&S website at www.
com Cobham plc ?lls j Pcnmpr lb ?aamslrq 0.
