For more information on our Corporate Responsibility approach, please see our Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 online at Strategy www.
co. uk responsibility On a day-to-day basis you may engage with us as a... PLC PROPERTY DEVELOPER ASSET MANAGER As a PLC we engage with: As a Property Developer we engage with: As an Asset Manager we engage with: Employees Suppliers Customers Investors Communities Consumers Central Government Local Authorities Communities Our strategy is simple to be at the forefront of delivering quality space for our customers and providing an attractive total return for shareholders.
We do this in a number of ways, and corporate responsibility plays a key role in helping us to create and protect value.
THE VALUE OUR STRATEGY PROVIDES Our people Our suppliers Investors Community investment Health & safety Community engagement Environment By acting responsibly and having a forward-looking perspective, we are able to deliver SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS STRONGER COMMUNITIES BETTER ENVIRONMENTS Our objectives: Our objectives: Our objectives: Creating jobs Protecting natural resources Developer of choice Supplier of choice Improving skills and Keeping workspace safe training opportunities Reducing waste Employer of choice Investing in places Find out more: Find out more: Find out more: Performance p64 Targets p66 Performance p64 Targets p66 Performance p64 Targets p66 62 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Here, we discuss our evolving approach to CR in Report three key areas sustainable business, stronger communities and better environments.
A t Land Securities CR is first and foremost about making Communities Our properties play an important role in many communities.
We plan for their the company strong and successful.
We do this by working local needs by consulting with residents, community groups and businesses.
in the smartest way possible to meet the needs and We also encourage our staff to get involved through charitable donations and expectations of everyone affected by what we do.
Putting our scale to good use, each year we support one national not interested in box-ticking exercises or competitive CR.
charity across our UK shopping centre portfolio.
We also encourage each This is about making a real difference in the real world.
shopping centre to support one or two local charities that are close to and active Robert Noel, Chief Executive in the local population.
In simple terms, good CR can add value to bricks and mortar.
By giving proper Local Authorities thought to how we do things, we can generate benets for everyone.
This gets to No two communities are the same.
So we build partnerships with decisionthe heart of what good CR is all about for us mutual advantage.
We want to be the makers, economic development teams and planning departments to identify employer of choice in property, so we attract and retain the best people.
to be the developer of choice for Local Authorities and communities, so they choose us to develop and manage property in their area.
We want to be the supplier Central government, regulators, trade bodies and NGOs of choice for occupiers, with retail, ofce and residential tenants preferring to spend We liaise with legislators and the trade organisations that inuence them.
We regularly brief members of both Houses of Parliament.
We also participate in time in our properties.
These points of difference combine to help make us the a number of industry-wide bodies, including the British Property Federation BPF, investment of choice for shareholders.
the British Council for Ofces BCO, the British Council for Shopping Centres In this section we describe in more detail our approach.
We also outline the targets we have set in each area, and report on how we performed during the year.
BCSC, Better Buildings Partnership, London First and the UK Green Building For us, CR targets are a practical tool that we can use to inuence long-term Council.
By demonstrating astute judgement and innovative thinking, we behaviour.
We want targets to help us change the way we operate for the better, continue to set industry benchmarks and remain trusted advisors to government.
not simply provide easy wins that look good on paper.
Consumers There are nearly 300 million customer visits to our shopping centres each year.
Our stakeholders We try to speak to as many members of the public as possible via customer We work with many different groups of people.
We describe them here along with service desks in our shopping centres and through the feedback facilities on some notes on how we discover and meet the specic needs of each group.
Employees Our Stakeholder Panel We encourage our people to reach their maximum potential.
Our annual Employee Engagement Survey gives everyone a chance to let management We established the Stakeholder Panel in 2010 to give us a greater understanding know our employees thoughts.
We also have an Exchange Forum in which of our stakeholders views and priorities.
It was originally comprised of service elected representatives discuss key issues with members of the Senior and construction partners, responsible business experts, local authority Management Board.
representatives and Land Securities employees.
In 2012, we expanded it to include voices from customers, academia and the investment community.
Together, they Customers retailers and ofce space tenants provide a range of valuable opinions on our targets, performance and reporting.
Every one of our customers has their own Land Securities contact.
To help us become better landlords, each year we conduct customer satisfaction surveys Governance and management among our shopping centre and ofce customers.
Four times a year we hold Our Corporate Responsibility Committee is made up of senior managers from occupier review meetings in our shopping centres and across our London ofces.
Its job is to ensure that we are always doing everything we can to improve our operations as a responsible business.
Its remit is to define our Suppliers and service partners corporate responsibility strategy, make sure our activities remain relevant to We have regular meetings with the contractors and other partners who help our business objectives and monitor our performance.
us construct and run our buildings.
Our current focus is on their training and Until 2011, the Committee met quarterly.
Now, to ensure the company is employment policies.
We want to make sure they do what they can to support making consistent progress against its targets, meetings have been increased to our aim of providing specialist skills-training and job opportunities to local six a year.
Chaired by the Group Tax and Treasury Director, Martin Wood, the unemployed people.
Committee reports to our Chief Executive.
Investors The CR Committee is diverse.
It incorporates senior Naturally, our investors seek competitive returns.
But they also want assurance people from every area of the business.
This means it that they are investing in a sustainable, well-governed business.
To ensure their can do more than just drive an agenda it can make voice is heard, we commission an independent investor survey every two years.
Martin Wood, CR Committee Chairman Land Securities Annual Report 2012 63 Corporate Responsibility Performance 2012 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS STRONGER COMMUNITIES Our objectives: Our objectives: Developer of choice Creating jobs Supplier of choice Improving skills and Employer of choice training opportunities Investing in places Highlights: Highlights: 3.1% 98% 2012 3.5m 1,546 8,536 of empty shops in our According to our This year we were named the value of the space, Instances of community hours of time given to portfolio, compared to a customer satisfaction Property Manager of the time, promotion and activity across our community activities.
national rate of 14.6% survey, 98% of our Year by the Property cash contributions our Portfolio.
retail clients would Managers Association.
community activities is equivalent to.
Sustainable business is good business.
Build a shopping centre that meets local needs and the community will support it, Supporting communities making it a more valuable asset.
Ensure your buildings are environmentally efficient We support the communities where our properties are located.
Whether its through cost-effective measures and you increase their appeal and future-proof charitable giving, addressing local employment needs or providing educational them against new regulations.
Provide a motivating, vibrant working environment opportunities, our aim is to earn the trust of the local population.
That trust is hard and you are better placed to attract and retain talent.
This is about creating and earned, but once you have it, the community is far more likely to support existing protecting value by becoming the developer, employer and supplier of choice.
assets and engage constructively on any proposals for new developments.
Looking forward, Local Authorities are set to be given more power in the delivery Looking forward, the growth of internet shopping and the challenging of local plans.
So their inuence on property development will continue to grow.
economic climate are having a significant impact on many retail locations.
Employees already judge potential employers on how responsibly they run their Inevitably, there will be winners and losers.
Some locations and retailers will thrive.
companies, as well as how successful they are.
This trend looks set to continue, as will Others will nd it increasingly tough to compete.
Wherever the demand for increased transparency over issues such as remuneration.
Occupiers we have a significant asset, we will invest in and work with the community that will have more demanding environmental and social goals as their customers raise surrounds it.
By supporting and securing their long-term prospects, we support and their expectations around CR, particularly environmental performance.
We need to respond to these evolving issues, staying ahead so we continue to satisfy changing needs and expectations.
Community investment Our community investment activities include the space we give away at our assets London Living Wage to help promote charities and local community events, together with the Land Securities supports the Mayor of Londons Living Wage initiative.
It sets the hourly management time and expertise we put in across the portfolio to support good rate at which someone can afford to live in the capital without requiring a second job to causes, education and training.
We also encourage our people to give time to help supplement their income.
Everyone employed by us, or our contractors in our London with volunteering and mentoring, as well as invest at a local level in the promotion HQ, earns at least the recommended rate of 8.30 an hour.
In all, 1,546 separate instances of community investment took place in 2011 12, with 8,536 hours of time given over to ensuring we played Because volunteering teaches you so much both about a full part in local community life.
If we add all the value of all this space, time, yourself and others I encourage my team to volunteer.
promotion and cash contributions, our investment in community activities is Theyve done their own fund raising and charity projects.
The value placed on these activities is in line with London And weve have also volunteered as a team.
Land Benchmarking Group denitions on measuring community involvement.
Securities has always encouraged us and helped make it possible.
Suzi Clay, Portfolio Director 64 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Responsibility Creating job opportunities in London BETTER ENVIRONMENTS In September 2011, we launched our Employment Strategy for the London Our objectives: Portfolio.
This was the result of partnering with JobCentre Plus and the London Probation Trust to see how we could help those furthest from the jobs market.
Protecting natural resources Aimed at young people and ex-offenders the pilot programme at 62 Buckingham Keeping workspace safe Gate, SW1, saw 23 people gain accredited training and go into employment with Reducing waste 19 of those progressing on to further NVQ level 2 qualications.
Kit Malthouse, Deputy Mayor of London for Policing, commented: This is an outstanding example of using training and employment to draw people away from crime and back into society.
Support for education Our London Portfolio invites schools to use a learning pack weve produced.
It offers lesson plans that tie in with the national curriculum while introducing young people to construction.
We also try to make our building sites accessible for school visits so pupils, and teachers, can get to see what a major construction project is like for themselves.
As for higher education, we offer work experience to University College London UCL planning students.
There is currently a shortage of planners, Highlights: so we want to provide relevant, quality experience where we can.
This year we received a In the buildings where we This year we stayed below National Sustainable provide electricity, our the industry average Charitable collaborations Cities Award for our tenants can now benefit accident frequency rate at Last year our Retail Portfolio as well as encouraging all our centres to pick and energy reduction from renewable energy all our shopping centres work with a local charity partnered with British Heart Foundation as their national initiatives at our head sourced electricity at and development projects.
Our centres were able to help BHF collect bags of donated ofce 5 Strand, WC2.
These equated to an incredible 118,410 worth of stock.
In addition, through efficient prices.
various fundraising activities, the centres helped raise 23,329 in cash.
In three years of working together with us, BHF has collected 29,728 bags of stock worth 450,000, while raising awareness of the charity and heart disease.
Beyond compliance We were the first commercial property company in the UK to measure energy Lewisham Shopping Centre is one of the biggest consumption.
We were the first to produce energy efficiency reports for buildings.
Over 1,800 people work here, but As an industry leader, we go beyond compliance.
But we also have a responsibility its far more than just an employer the things were doing to our shareholders only to invest in what has been proven to be cost-effective.
Commercial property causes around 18% of carbon emissions in the UK.
to support the local area make a big difference to the Currently, though, occupiers will not pay a premium for a greener building.
At some community point, this will change.
Our tenants own sustainability targets are starting to make Paul Redden, Lewisham Shopping Centre Manager environmental considerations more important.
So a green building premium may be with us sometime in the future.
However, regulation does make specic demands on environmental performance, and even higher requirements are likely in the future.
For this reason, we have continued to invest in new environmental approaches, systems and technologies.
We have to build a quality portfolio thats likely to be ahead of legislation for many years to come.
That will future-proof the portfolio, protecting shareholder investment.
It will also mean our properties are more likely to stay in tune with customer needs.
Test lab We always look for the next big thing in building design and technology.
However, not all innovations are cost effective or efficient.
So we test technologies at different locations including our head ofce at 5 Strand, WC2 before we implement them on a large project.
The energy efficient lifts we put in have reduced energy consumption by 75%.
And new lighting controls and voltage optimisation have increased efficiency.
This work enabled us to move in our people from an adjacent building while still reducing the energy used at 5 Strand.
Sustainability is the art of the possible.
You have to develop targets that people believe they have a realistic chance of achieving.
Neil Pennell, Head of Sustainability and Engineering Land Securities Annual Report 2012 65 Corporate Responsibility Clear targets define our aspirations and inspire Targets 2012 our actions.
Below, you can see a snapshot of how we performed this year.
Sustainable business We had eight targets under sustainable business.
We achieved five, had one ongoing and missed two.
Achieved Ongoing Missed All full and part-time head ofce based employees Maintain or increase 60% employee volunteering Four to six London based 16-18 year-olds per year, and supply chain employees at head ofce to receive rate for half day or more per year but increase who do not normally have access to a corporate at least London Living Wage LLW, currently 8.30 the proportion of those who provide skilled or environment, to have gained work experience at Land per hour by March 2013. professional advice or mentoring to 25% of the Securities by March 2014.
Establish a summer work 50% of business critical roles identied as 60% by March 2014. experience programme in 2011. succession plan vacancies in band A roles and This target has been harder to achieve than expected We missed our Summer 2011 deadline for delivery leadership band B to have an identied internal due to high levels of volunteering and insufficient of a trial work experience scheme.
However, successor ready within 12 months by March 2014. recording.
It has been particularly difficult to by year end, the operational aspect of this target Maintain overall satisfaction rates in both London differentiate between personal and professional had been achieved.
and Retail customer surveys of 4.18 and 4.27 volunteering activities.
We are putting in place new Fill 50% of vacancies at middle manager level respectively.
procedures to address these issues.
band B with internal candidates recruited as graduate or early career professionals by 2016.
The miss reects the changes we made to the longer term aspect of this target during the year to align it more closely with the business.
Stronger communities We had eight targets under stronger communities.
We achieved seven and had one ongoing at year end.
Achieved Ongoing Embed charitable partnerships into both London and Report annually against social, economic and Retail business units by 2014 by embedding charity environmental metrics to all regional Local lets into the asset management programme.
Authorities and London Boroughs where we have Deliver the London Portfolio Employment and significant shopping centre or development presence Skills programme across three development sites by March 2014.
20 Fenchurch Street, Park House, 123 Victoria Street By year end, good relationships had been established by 2014. with Local Authorities and London Boroughs, and Write training clauses into all relevant tender reports were in the process of being prepared, but documents for key service partners and main they had not been distributed.
Better environment We had nine targets under better environment.
We achieved five and had four ongoing at year end.
Ongoing Achieved Ongoing Reduce the average water consumption across the In anticipation of the 25% reduction in regulated Reduce average CO emissions from the managed 2 London managed ofce estate by 10% compared emissions due in 2013, new development design portfolio by 30% by 2020 compared to 2000 01 with 2010 11, measured in terms of litres per person to be ahead of 2010 Building Regulations leading to interim reduction targets by March 2013 by March 2016. requirements in terms of CO emissions.
of: ofces 8.53%, shopping centres 5.80%, retail 2 The target is not due to be met until 2016 but, as we Increase to 90% the amount of waste diverted parks 8.41%.
gained better data during the year, we chose to from landll for the shopping centre portfolio This target was reset during the year see re-based change the scope of the target.
See re-based targets by March 2015. targets on p67.
Remain below industry benchmarks for reportable To achieve FSC project-specic certication for every Achieve zero environmental incidents.
incidents for health and safety purposes on completed development.
During the year there were no incidents that would development sites and within our managed Most schemes are collecting the evidence to meet result in a prosecution.
However, we did nd an property portfolio.
However, it is difficult to assess as no example of a contractor not following the correct qualifying schemes completed in the year.
procedure when disposing of uorescent lamps, so we did not feel we had achieved this target.
66 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Responsibility We believe responsible business is better business, Beyond 2012 so we take a proactive approach to updating targets and making CR business as usual.
BUSINESS AS USUAL This year two targets moved into being business as usual.
Maintain high levels of participation and scoring in Our employee engagement survey occurs every year.
Rather than set targets for constant improvement, we want employee engagement survey.
it to record what we are doing well and not so well in terms of addressing employees concerns.
So we will continue to run the survey but we will not include improvement targets.
Embed charitable partnerships in retail This target has been met at centres where it is suitable to have an embedded charity partnership.
We are moving it to business as usual, where it will continue to be monitored.
RE-BASED TARGETS Two key targets under better environment were rebased following the year end.
Reduce average CO emissions: The government targets use data from 1990 as the baseline against which we should measure progress on 2 sustainability improvements.
However, as we have come to understand the setting of targets better and made them more specic, we have realised that some of our past data is not reliable enough to serve as a baseline.
When we originally set our sustainability targets we took our baseline as 2000 01, as we had data for this period, but not 1990.
Reviewing subsequent years, we began to worry that our 2000 01 data might not be robust enough to help us make a meaningful difference.
Therefore, we have changed our benchmark to the much more reliable data of 2010 11.
The new target now reads: Reduce average CO emissions from the like-for-like managed portfolio by 2 15% by 2020 21 compared to 2010 11 benchmark.
Reduce average water consumption: We have focused more attention on the measurement of water usage as we recognised the growing importance of this issue.
This year we have expanded the target to cover average water consumption in the London managed ofce estate and Retail like-for-like portfolio.
The new target now reads: To reduce water consumption across the like-for-like managed ofce and retail portfolio by 10% by 2015 16, measured in terms of volume used per unit oor area.
NEW TARGETS This year we also introduced some new targets to the business as we seek to improve the delivery of our responsible business approach.
Demonstrate we are a Considerate Development This new target reects our desire to achieve even higher standards of delivery when we are on site at new Client across both London and Retail Development developments.
Projects: Tenant behaviour utilise our two buildings signed This target reects our belief that behaviour change offers the biggest opportunity to deliver a fast and sizeable up to Memorandums of Understanding to pilot reduction in CO emissions in commercial property.
2 environmental behavioural change programmes to roll out across the portfolio: To ensure all buildings available for lease within the This target reects our view that we prepare in advance for proposed legislation on the sale and lease of buildings portfolio have an EPC rating of E or better by March with poorly rated energy performance to protect value in our business.
The government has intimated that in 2018 if you do not have a rating of E or better then you cannot sell or lease a property: To apply Planet Positive Building Certication as a This target reects our desire to look at new ways to manage our construction process to identify better pilot study to the proposed Crawley development environmental performance.
commencing on site in Autumn 2012 to ascertain the benets when used in support of BREEAM Certication: Land Securities Annual Report 2012 67 Corporate Responsibility To enhance our disclosures in line with EPRA best Environmental practice recommendations, we set out below our first Data EPRA-based reporting dashboard.
Environmental reporting is still in its infancy but as a responsible Real Estate Association Best Practice Recommendations for business, and one of the largest property companies in the UK, clear Sustainability Reporting.
This Europe-wide reporting standard reporting of emissions and other impacts is increasingly requested for commercial real estate companies enables investors and by our shareholders, occupiers and customers.
To ensure we meet other stakeholders to compare performance in resource use the highest standards, we now report using EPRA European Public across the sector.
3 LIKE-FOR-LIKE TOTAL WATER m YEAR CHART 41 LIKE-FOR-LIKE TOTAL ENERGY KWH YEAR CHART 42 Explanation Absolute properties 327,191 145,925,117 covers 130 assets and London London Water Energy the like-for-like 355,946 140,112,385 properties covers 88 assets.
See Boundary 503,785 68,710,373 explained below for the Retail Retail explanation of why Water Energy these denitions help 445,753 66,133,959 in understanding our performance.
2010 11 2010 11 2011 12 2011 12 LIKE-FOR-LIKE TOTAL tCO e tCOe YEAR CHART 43 ABSOLUTE CO e SPLIT IN LAND SECURITIES CHART 44 2 2 2 69,416 Oil 1.0% London tCO e 2 Gas 13.0% 68,510 Electricity 86.0% 32,273 Retail tCO e 2 31,269 2010 11 2011 12 Boundary explained In terms of environmental reporting, our denition of a like-for-like property is one where we manage the utilities and have at least two It can be difficult for a property company to provide a clear, years worth of valid utility data.
The property must also meet our consistent picture of carbon emissions and other environmental financial like-for-like rules.
performance due to the dynamic nature of the industry, with Properties in our portfolio that meet these criteria are considered buildings being acquired, sold and developed on a regular basis.
to be within our EPRA reporting boundary.
Once the boundary of However, it is possible to identify like-for-like properties within the an organisation has been established, utility data is collected and portfolio that can be assessed consistently over time.
By creating checked for robustness.
For this report there are 88 like-for-like a boundary to separate measurable like-for-like properties from properties.
transient properties, we can provide a more meaningful picture of our environmental performance.
68 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Responsibility KEY Increased No change Reduced ABSOLUTE FIGURES TABLE 45 Explanation Absolute Total Usage Absolute Electricity Absolute Gas Absolute Oil Absolute Water 3 On our properties all Total kWh tCO eElectricity kWh tCO eGas kWh tCO eOil kWh tCO eWater m 2 2 2 2 measures have shown 2010 11 130 sites 287,131,915 134,252 193,319,012 114,768 87,473,505 17,630 6,339,398 1,854 949,942 a positive improvement 2011 12 130 sites 275,572,853 130,938 191,160,712 113,486 79,590,446 16,041 4,821,695 1,410 872,747 in performance.
Like-for-Like Number of properties 89 of 89 89 of 89 At a basic level, the LONDON LIKE-FOR-LIKE TABLE 47 RETAIL LIKE-FOR-LIKE TABLE 48 reduction in tCO e is 2 2010 11 2011 12 Change % 2010 11 2011 12 Change % probably explained by the Energy Energy warmer winter.
As we gather more data we Building energy intensity Building energy intensity believe we will be able 2 2 kWh m year 189.68 182.12 3.983 kWh m year 45.26 43.56 3.75 to gather a greater kWh person year 2,643.13 2,537.84 3.983 kWh person year 355.365 341.598 3.87 understanding at a local level as to some of the changes in performance.
GHG GHG GHG intensity GHG intensity 2 2 tCO e m year 0.090 0.089 1.305 tCO e m year 0.021 0.021 3.11 2 2 tCO e person year 1.257 1.241 1.305 tCO e person year 0.167 0.162 3.23 2 2 Water Water Building water intensity Building water intensity 3 2 3 2 m m year 0.425 0.463 8.788 m m year 0.332 0.294 11.52 3 3 m person year 5.926 6.447 8.788 m person year 2.606 2.302 11.63 Our normalised water usage shows that in London ofces we saw an increase Normalisation explained one of our retail properties is used may differ greatly from daywhich we believe is the to-day activity in one of our London ofces.
So we have specic result of us installing better Intensity measures help companies to compare the real and relative metering whilst in retail it measures for each type of property, and we then combine these efficiency of portfolios over time.
A number of intensity measures fell.
Overall retail is a bigger to provide an overall result.
are key to our EPRA reporting.
These are: user of water, explaining 2 For properties in the London Portfolio, we base measurements the overall reduction Building energy intensity kWh m year & kWh person year 2 2.
against an average density of eight people per 99m Greenhouse gas intensity from building energy kg CO e m year 2 in the Retail Portfolio, we use footfall.
The annual footfall is divided & kg CO e person year 2 3 2 3 by 1,000 to ensure the range of the normalised data is easily Building water intensity m m year & m person year readable.
This methodology has been discussed and accepted It is important to normalise the results from different types of by our assurers.
building so relative performance can be assessed.
Clearly, the way WASTE LONDON TABLE 49 WASTE RETAIL TABLE 50 Explanation 2010 11 2011 12 Change % 2010 11 2011 12 Change % Diverting waste from Total Waste t 5,757 6,701 16.40 Total Waste t 17,425 16,114 7.52 landll is a key target Waste diverted t 5,757 6,701 16.40 Waste diverted t 13,586 13,562 0.17 for us, but we are now Diverted % 100 100 Diverted % 78.0 84.2 7.95 looking to increase the amount of recycling in our portfolio going forward.
