London & Stamford Property Plc 12 Report and Accounts 2012 Environmental sustainability and social policy We recognise our responsibility to society and the communities Asset management in which we operate to manage the environmental and social With regard to day-to-day management, we have set ourselves impact of our business activities.
The ongoing drive towards the following objectives for our day-to-day asset management alower carbon economy through active management of our ofthe portfolio: portfolio and a commitment to sustainability are incorporated To promote and instigate environmental best practice intoour risk management strategy.
Environmental policy To promote environmental initiatives to our asset and property We commission an independent environmental report for all managers and require them to keep up to date with legislation.
This report considers, amongst other To encourage our asset managers to work with environmentally matters, the historic and current usage of the site and identies responsible suppliers and contractors.
the likelihood of any contamination present.
To research and implement sustainable energy uses where The Group, in conjunction with its insurance brokers, monitors feasible and appropriate.
allincoming tenants through its insurance programme to identify To encourage the adoption of green travel plans and to potential risk and to avoid high risk business activities in its promote the use of shared transport or cycling to work properties.
Through active management and inspections of the byproviding appropriate amenities for our tenants.
portfolio, any change in tenant business practice which we consider to be a potential environmental risk is reported and To encourage community engagement by promoting the use acted upon.
ofbuilding amenities to the wider community and promote the use of local workforce by our tenants and contractors.
All our leases commit occupiers to observe environmental regulations and we monitor this covenant through our To minimise resource consumption by reducing wastage and managingagents.
All sites are visited at least annually and any obvious To reduce energy consumption through reduced demand, environmental issues are reported to the Board.
improved efficiencies and promote behavioural change amongst our asset managers and joint venture partners.
Social policy To encourage our joint venture partners and asset managers Our aim is to ensure that the collective activities performed by the toimplement green policies and initiatives and be more Group are carried out in a socially responsible manner.
main areas of potential social impact have been identied as To comply with all applicable environmental statutes and planning and asset improvement works undertaken in the course regulations and comply with the Environmental Agencys of our active asset management.
Planning Where asset management initiatives are subcontracted, Where planning applications are proposed, the Group considers theGroup monitors the works both directly and in conjunction the impact on the surrounding areas and the local ecology and with project managers on larger projects.
This serves to ensure takes account of the legitimate concerns of interested and they are carried out in accordance with relevant guidelines and affected parties as part of the process.
laws by contractors and their subcontractors who have been assessed to ensure that they have sufficient resources to meet legal requirements.
Review and responsibility The Social and Environmental policy is reviewed annually by the Board as part of the Groups corporate governance procedures.
