50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Corporate governance responsibility, set out how allegations of fraud or bribery are dealt Control environment with, such as by the local human resources or finance team, and Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of the frequency of local reporting that feeds into the regular updates, internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated which are presented to the Committee.
Reporting of these matters responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk to the Committee is managed and overseen by internal audit.
management programme to the Executive Committee.
The detailed The Speak Up policy operates when the complaint is received through review of internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
the whistle-blowing channel and that policy will redirect the alleged The management of each business is responsible for internal control fraud or bribery for investigation at the most appropriate level of the and risk management within its own business and for ensuring organisation which may, for example, be by a member of the local compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each business human resources team or, on occasion, the Committee itself.
has appointed a risk champion whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups risk Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and management and internal control programme.
The internal and the considers where improvements can be made.
external Auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these Internal audit internal control requirements.
The internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the quality of risk management and internal control and helps to promote Control procedures and further develop effective risk management within the business.
The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist basis and approves Group budgets and strategies in light of these.
expertise continue to be outsourced by the Director of Group Internal Control is exercised at Group and business level through the Groups Audit to KPMG LLP as appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviews Management and Performance MAP framework and monthly internal audit reports and considers the effectiveness of the function.
monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, forecasts and cash targets and by regular visits to Group businesses by the Internal control Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
In a highly decentralised Group, where local management have This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process which considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a well is an integral part of the annual business cycle.
Each of the Groups designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard businesses is required to identify and document major risks facing Shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The Directors their business and appropriate mitigating activities and controls, and acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups monitor and report to the management on the effectiveness of these systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of controls on a biannual basis.
These reports, together with reports those controls.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the on internal control and departures, if any, from established Group Turnbull Report, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the procedures prepared by both the internal and external Auditors, are Combined Code, and in the Code itself, an ongoing process has reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee.
been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks Group companies also submit biannual risk and internal control faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the full assurance letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements and risk management issues, with comments on the control were approved.
The Group Finance Director summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee and the The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the that have arisen from the Committees review of the way in which risk Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups management and internal control processes have been applied.
performance and position and to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to social, The Board has formal procedures in place for approval of client environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing processes for selected acquisitions and major capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when reviewing A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious of the effect is given on pages 24 and 25.
Risk assessment and evaluation are an such matters may have on the short and long-term value of the integral part of the annual planning cycle.
The external Auditor of the Company and the Director of the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems Group Internal Audit attend Audit Committee meetings and receive its of internal control.
As part of the review, each significant business and papers.
The Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 48 to function has been required to identify and document each substantial 50 and the Audit Committee members meet regularly with the Director risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, of Group Internal Audit and the external Auditor without the presence monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these of Executive management.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any There were no changes to the Companys internal control over breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September results have been presented to senior management including to the 2012 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect Executive Committee and to the Board.
These processes have been materially, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
in place throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2012 and have continued to the date of this Report.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year under review and a summary of the principal control structures and processes in place across the Group is set out in this Report.
