78 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2012 In relation to cash flow hedges forward currency contracts to hedge For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity gains and losses are recognised immediately in the consolidated and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that asset or liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition become vested.
cost and carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are The pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example, unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value when the future sale actually occurs.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge reductions in future contributions to the plan.
accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide other post-employment benefits.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for of employment using a similar basis to that used for defined benefit hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity immediately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised Share-based payments in equity is transferred to the income statement in the period.
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment, the Group has R Leases applied IFRS 2 to all equity-settled share options granted after Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the 7 November 2002 that had vested before 1 January 2005.
Equitylease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value, determined at the grant date of the equityAssets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the settled share-based payments, is expensed on a straight-line basis Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non marketthe lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included based vesting conditions.
in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, directly against income.
based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Any incentives to For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the over the lease term.
current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
S Provisions Holiday pay Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an employee Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation benefit and are charged to the income statement as the benefits are as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be earned.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the fair value of holidays earned but not taken.
Directors best estimate of the cost of settling these liabilities and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
T Employee benefits Pension obligations Payments made to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense when they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution pension scheme.
