Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 51 I put questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the Recruitment of former audit staff Chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and To safeguard the independence of the Companys external Auditor Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The and the integrity of the audit process, the recruitment of senior results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as employees from the Companys Auditor is not permitted for a period abstentions, are announced to the London Stock Exchange and of at least two years after they cease to be involved in the provision are published on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
of services to the Company.
Donations Appointment of Auditor The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor of pages 16 to 19.
The Groups charitable donations in 2012 totalled the Company.
Separate Resolutions proposing its reappointment and 6.2 million 2011: 5.9 million.
determination of its remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Charitable objectives support the Companys corporate relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP is unaware and each responsibility strategy and have primarily focused on improving Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a the environment, education, health and wellness, community Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish engagement and responsible business practice.
Donations that Deloitte LLP is aware of that information.
have included employee involvement through fundraising and financial support.
Compliance statement The Company applied all of the principles set out in the Code for the Since 2004, Shareholders have passed an annual resolution, period under review and has, throughout the year, complied with on a precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political the detailed provisions set out therein.
organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms were defined under the then relevant legislation not exceeding 125,000 per annum.
The Board has consistently confirmed that it The Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, is required to review whether operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules intention of changing that policy.
The Directors, however, propose to of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such renew the authority granted in 2012 for the Group to make political compliance.
No such report has been made.
donations and incur political expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 365 of the CA 2006 of not more than 125,000 in Communication with shareholders total until the Companys next AGM, which they might otherwise be The Company places considerable importance on communication prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of the CA 2006 with its Shareholders, including its private Shareholders.
The Group and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely involved in theword.
investor relations and a Senior Executive has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
The views of the Companys major Shareholders are Employee share trusts reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive and the Group The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who remains in contact The Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were with the ten largest Shareholders and are discussed at its meetings.
established on 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection with the Companys share option plans.
The Compass There is regular dialogue with institutional Shareholders and this has Group Long Term Incentive Plan Trust LTIPT was established on been extended to include private Shareholders through the AGM and 5April 2001 in connection with the Companys long-term incentive meetings with the United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
Details of all incentive plans are set out in the Directors with institutional Shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 65.
The Trustees of the ESOP, the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection LTIPT and CGET hold 180,266 2011: 251,332, 17,209 2011: 17,209 of share price sensitive information that has not already been made and nil 2011: nil ordinary shares of the Company respectively.
generally available to the Companys Shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss overall The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and the remuneration plans and policies.
Compass Group Executive Share Trust were established on 15 and 22 February 2010 respectively in relation to the operation The primary method of communication with Shareholders is by of share incentive plans in Australia.
No ordinary shares are held electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally by these Trusts as at 30 September 2012 2011: nil.
friendly by reducing waste and pollution associated with the printing and posting of its Annual Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all Shareholders and can be accessed via the Awards under employee share schemes Companys website at www.
The Groups annual Details of awards made during the year and held by Executive and interim results are also published on the Companys website, Directors as at 30 September 2012 are set out in the Directors together with all other announcements and documents issued to the Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 65. market, such as trading updates, interim management statements, interviews and presentations by the Group Chief Executive and Group Details of employee share schemes, grants made during the Finance Director.
year ended 30 September 2012 to, and extant awards held by, employees are disclosed in note 25 to the consolidated financial The Notice of AGM is circulated to all Shareholders at least 20 working statements on page 111. days prior to such meeting and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All Shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM at which they have the opportunity to
