Other stakeholders, namely our customers, our suppliers, our investors and our employees, continue to be of the utmost CORPORATE importance to us and during 2012 we undertook a range of activities to engage with these groups, to keep them informed RESPONSIBILITY about our business activities and to understand how we can meet their expectations of us.
REVIEW Health and safety continues to be a top priority.
In 2012, we have reported an Accident Frequency Rate for SEGRO employees of zero, compared with 0.35 per 200,000 hours worked in 2011.
We have also continued to develop green travel plans, making access to our buildings as easy and well integrated to the local infrastructure as possible.
INTRODUCTION TECHNICAL SUSTAINABILITY SEGRO 2020 In 2012 we took a fresh look at our approach to sustainability and reviewed the targets which we had set ourselves in 2009.
At SEGRO we believe that corporate We did this as a result of increasing legislation affecting our business and also in response to our customers, who have their responsibility is fundamental to the way own commitments to sustainability.
Our new sustainability in which we do business and that by strategy, SEGRO 2020, is aligned to our overall business goals and is designed to deliver long-term value to SEGRO, our investing in our buildings, our employees customers and our other stakeholders.
and the local communities in which we As sustainability affects every area of our business, it was operate, we can create value for our important that we engaged with our colleagues in shareholders.
understanding what sustainability means to them and to set ourselves targets that, while challenging, were also realistic PROGRESS WITH SUSTAINABILITY IN 2012 and attainable.
We have made progress in embedding sustainability SEGRO 2020 is therefore an evolution of our original strategy throughout our operations.
In June, we appointed a new which sets out our overall goals in the key areas of sustainability Technical Sustainability Manager, Terry Clarke.
Terry has as well as setting annual targets for each country, which we will Group-wide responsibility for sustainability and works with a monitor and assess on an ongoing basis.
To help deliver network of representatives across the business who support SEGRO 2020, we have developed three sustainability toolkits our sustainability objectives by sharing best practice, obtaining which cover the operations, development and refurbishment customer feedback and providing legislative and technical aspects of our business.
The aim of each toolkit is to embed guidance for their respective areas of the business.
the SEGRO 2020 targets into the key areas of the business, We have been pleased with the progress we made towards providing support, information and sharing best practice across meeting a number of our sustainability targets.
On page 25 we have set out the targets we will be continued to focus on the key areas of resource efficiency, delivering against for SEGRO 2020.
BELOW our communities, our stakeholders, health and safety, and the Our aim is for sustainability to become part of the fabric of our DB Schenker at The accessibility and exibility of our buildings.
The progress we business as usual operations over the coming years.
Portal Site, Heathrow have made against our previously published targets is outlined in detail on pages 26 and 27.
In resource efficiency we have incorporated water efficiency measures and made good progress in constructing buildings, with 30 per cent better energy efficiency than base-build.
We have also expanded our renewable energy portfolio substantially.
We are proud to have competed 21 new developments in 2012, all of which achieved good EPC Energy Performance Certicate ratings, with some of these buildings also achieving environmental certications such as BREEAM, DGNB and HQE.
Of particular note was the completion of the 10,000 sq m new UK headquarters and logistics hub for DB Schenker.
This building has a number of leading sustainable features such as rainwater harvesting, solar panels and air source heat pumps.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS We have maintained our focus on supporting and investing in the local communities where we have a major presence.
We have increased our investment in good causes, through the donation of time, money and business space, by 10.4 per cent compared with 2011.
Raising funds for charities that supported cancer-related illness was the focus for our Charity of the Year in 2012.
In the UK we supported Children with Cancer UK and we were delighted to present them with a cheque for 100,000.
024 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A key piece of feedback from this process was the importance of linking Group-wide goals into our ongoing operations, 80% and ensuring that the appropriate level of technical support TECHNICAL of construction waste to is available for the business to deliver its goals as efficiently be reused or recycled.
SUSTAINABILITY SEGRO 2020 is therefore supported by three sustainability SEGRO 2020 toolkits which address the key areas of the business where 40% sustainability has most impact operations, development reduction in SEGROs and refurbishment.
These toolkits have been developed in discussion with our SEGRO 2020 has been designed to property operations teams and external designers, contractors enable SEGRO to respond to changing and consultants to ensure that they are useful and easy to legislation, regulation, reporting understand, and complement existing procedures and processes.
We will store each toolkit within the business once requirements and customer demand a project is completed, which enables us to share technical within sustainability.
specications, cost information, lessons learned, and general best practice.
This is an important feature as it helps us to In order to support the launch and ongoing delivery of SEGRO ensure that each business area within the Group benets from 2020, it is important that the strategy has buy-in throughout the experiences of others.
the business to ensure that our targets are delivered.
To achieve this, we engaged with key stakeholders throughout the Group.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AIM 2020 TARGET Reduce the amount of waste created as part of our Reuse or recycle 80 per cent of construction waste.
development and refurbishment programmes Improve SEGRO's energy efficiency in the areas Reduce SEGROs internal and common parts energy intensity by 40 per cent against we are able to inuence 2011 baseline.
Monitor and reduce SEGROs water consumption Reduce SEGROs water consumption against 2011 levels.
We will quantify this intensity by 2020 target in 2013 as we are undertaking a metering programme so we can accurately measure our consumption.
ASSET DESIGN AND REFURBISHMENT Provide water-efficient buildings for our customers as part Install water-efficient technology in all our developments and major refurbishments, of our development and refurbishment programmes and rainwater harvesting grey water recycling where viable.
Construct energy-efficient buildings that exceed All our major refurbishments and new developments will be at least 40 per cent more minimum regulatory requirements energy efficient than our typical 2009 buildings in each country.
We will monitor this 2 goal through using the design energy intensity gure kWh m or Building Emission Rate BER.
Produce buildings that perform to high environmental Our core market new development and major refurbishment projects will be certication standards certied to a very good standard or equivalent in the recognised environmental certication for that region BREEAM, LEED, DGNB, HQE.
Produce buildings that achieve high EPC ratings All developments to be EPC B rated, or C rated for major refurbishments.
RENEWABLE ENERGY Integrate renewable energy to our buildings Increase our renewable energy capacity across the Group.
com 025 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED We have now launched SEGRO 2020 which 2012 PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS supersedes these targets from 2013 onwards.
However, to provide an indication of how we OUR 2012 were performing and the extent to which we were making progress against the 200914 PERFORMANCE targets, we have completed a target assessment for 2012.
Of the 13 targets in place in 2012, 8 of the targets In 2009, we set a number of 62 per cent were fully achieved, 3 23 per cent were partially achieved and 2 15 per cent were sustainability targets which not achieved.
A summary of our progress is we aimed to achieve by 2014 provided below, with more detail about our performance on the following pages.
across the categories of Resource efficiency, Stakeholders, KEY Communities, Safety and FULLY ACHIEVED Accessibility.
PARTIALLY ACHIEVED 62% FULLY ACHIEVED NOT ACHIEVED 23% PARTIALLY ACHIEVED 15% NOT ACHIEVED OUR 2012 PERFORMANCE 200914 PERFORMANCE TARGET TARGET TARGET COMMENTARY DEADLINE PROGRESS RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ASSET DESIGN AND REFURBISHMENT Construct buildings with 30 per Our current developments are anticipated to be 16 per cent better than base-build when 2014 cent better energy efficiency than completed.
Our average improvement over base-build standards since 2009, in the UK, is base-build 35 per cent and we are making good progress in improving the energy efficiency of our design specications.
Incorporate water efficiency measures The total improvement in water efficiency against the base-build for our new developments 2014 and water recycling to reduce mains in 2012 is forecast to be around 10 per cent.
We have made good progress in improving our water use by 20 per cent compared design specications and achieved an average improvement of 12 per cent over the last three to base-build years in our new developments.
RENEWABLES Investigate the feasibility of renewable Our developments have undertaken a renewable energy feasibility study.
As a result of this, 2014 energy for every development site our projects have designed-in solar photovoltaic PV panels with a total installed capacity of 1,484 kWp.
The total renewable energy generation anticipated on our new developments in 2012 is 1,321MWh.
This will bring the total renewable energy generation across our portfolio to 8,557 MWh.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Improve SEGROs energy During 2012, the like-for-like energy consumption based on 150 buildings for our own 2014 efficiency by 30 per cent occupied ofces and the shared services across our portfolio equated to 44 million kWh, which represents an increase of just over 19 per cent 7 million kWh from 2011.
Some of this increase can be attributed to weather conditions in 2012 which required greater heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC usage.
Despite this, like-for-like energy consumption in our own occupied ofces decreased by 3 per cent in 2012.
Overall, we have signicantly improved our metering and data collection methodologies in 2011 and 2012, which enables us to understand our energy consumption in a lot more detail.
We will be continuing our drive to improve metering and energy data collection over the coming years.
Reduce water use by 20 per cent The total water consumption across our occupied ofces and landlord shared services was 2014 3 103,092 m in 2012.
This represents an increase on our 2011 consumption of 2 per cent.
However, improvements have been made to water data metering and reporting during 2012, so it is likely that some of the change seen relates to improved reporting across our portfolio.
Reuse or recycle 80 per cent In 2012, our developments generated 329,834 tonnes of waste.
A total of 260,808 tonnes of 2014 of development waste waste was reused or recycled, which equates to 79 per cent.
This is partially inuenced by the recycling rate of the material recycling facilities used by SEGRO, which was reported as being less than 30 per cent for five developments.
Between 2009 and 2012, the average reuse and recycling rate for our development activities was 91 per cent, which is well above our target of 80 per cent.
026 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR 2012 PERFORMANCE 200914 PERFORMANCE TARGET TARGET TARGET COMMENTARY DEADLINE PROGRESS STAKEHOLDERS Continental Europe target only to These targets were deemed no longer applicable as we are now using other metrics to N A 2012 improve customer satisfaction with our measure our performance against customer satisfaction.
For more information on our understanding of their business needs customer care policy go to www.
from 57 per cent in 2009, by focusing on customer relationship management, as measured through our 2011 survey Continental Europe target only to These targets were deemed no longer applicable as we are now using other metrics to 2012 N A continue to improve consistency in measure our performance against customer satisfaction.
For more information on our satisfaction levels between countries, customer care policy go to www.
as measured through our 2011 survey, by implementing smart, efficient customer service procedures Engage with a significant During 2012, we engaged with a total of 621 customers about sustainability issues.
20 new Green 2014 number of customers to Leases or Memorandums of Understanding were signed 9 in France, 11 in Italy : 27 customers improve sustainability had specic discussions about renewable energy: and 525 customers in the UK were engaged in specic discussions about sustainability issues.
This represents a significant increase in engagement in 2012.
COMMUNITIES Invest in communities where We invested approximately 1.9 million in time, money and space to good causes in 2012, 2014 we have a major presence an increase of 10.4 per cent on our 2011 contribution and continuing our trend of increasing investment year on year.
Ensure that community In 2012, we either launched or maintained community engagement plans in Hounslow, 2014 engagement plans are in Hillingdon, Wokingham, Slough and Ealing.
This represents five of our seven estates where place where we have a we have a major presence.
major presence SAFETY Maintain a zero fatality rate The Group has maintained its rate of zero fatalities during 2012.
2012 throughout Group operations Ensure no health and safety Zero health and safety prosecutions or enforcement actions were received during 2012.
2012 prosecutions or enforcement action throughout Group operations Implement assessment and training In the UK, 17 classroom-based driver training courses were completed and six individuals 2012 requirements for the Group-wide were provided with in-vehicle driver training sessions.
In Continental Europe, 66 employees Driving for Work Policy were assessed using an online work-related road risk assessment 9 high risk, 53 medium risk, 4 low risk.
ACCESSIBILITY AND FLEXIBILITY For all appropriate new developments During 2012, we continued to maintain our existing green travel plans.
These are in place at 2014 and managed estates to have a tailored Slough Trading Estate and IQ Winnersh, in the UK and Energy Park in Italy.
com 027 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Our development projects in 2012 generated 329,834 tonnes of waste.
Over the past three years the average reuse and recycling rate for our activities has been 91 per cent, which has signicantly RESOURCE EFFICIENCY exceeded our target of 80 per cent.
3 In 2012, we used 103,092 m of water, which was a 2 per cent We had a very active development programme in 2012 and increase from our 2011 consumption.
However, we believe that we undertook to construct buildings with 30 per cent better some of this increase is attributable to the improved way in which energy efficiency than base-build.
Due to the requirements of we have been able to report water usage across our portfolio.
local planning authorities and building regulations increasing in recent years, our performance in this target for 2012 was a 16 per cent improvement over the current base-build standards.
Since 2009, our average improvement over the COMMUNITIES base-build requirements, in the UK, is 35 per cent.
We are committed to continuing to make progress to improve the energy efficiency of our design specications.
In 2012, we invested approximately 1.9 million in time, money and space to good causes based around our business locations.
As part of our development programme and to respond to incoming legislation relating to minimum energy performance Raising money for charities that supported cancer-related illness standards of buildings, we continue to focus on EPCs.
We believe was the focus of our Charity of the Year fundraising activities that these ratings are indicative of the inherent quality of an asset across all areas of our operations.
Employees aimed to raise and we work closely with our customers and external suppliers 50,000 which was then fund matched by the Company, up to to ensure that we design and develop sustainable buildings as a maximum of 50,000.
This money was split proportionally well as refurbish existing buildings with the aim of making them among the charities depending on how much had been raised more energy efficient.
Of the buildings where we have an EPC by each country.
Throughout the year, employees took part in in place, more than 85 per cent have a rating of E or better.
various activities, including triathlons, half marathons, cake baking, golf and sailing days, all with the aim of raising as much During 2012, the like-for-like energy consumption for our own money as possible.
We were delighted to present Children occupied ofces and the shared services across our portfolio with Cancer UK with a cheque for 100,000, of which equated to 44 million kWh, which represents an increase of approximately 57,200 had been raised by employees.
just over 19 per cent 7 million kWh from 2011.
Some of this increase can be attributed to weather factors in 2012 which In Continental Europe, we supported five charities.
In total they required greater HVAC usage.
Despite this, like-for-like energy received 23,000, of which 13,000 was raised by employees consumption in our occupied ofces decreased by 3 per cent in and 10,000 was matched by the Company.
Overall, we have signicantly improved our metering and Although our main focus was on our Charity of the Year, data collection methodologies in 2011 and 2012, which enables we made a number of cash donations to other causes in 2012. us to understand our energy consumption in a lot more detail.
These included Breast Cancer Care, Fundacja GAJUSZ We are committed to increasing our renewable energy capacity a centre for children who are critically ill, based in Poland, in order to reduce our own CO emissions and also to support Passerelles et Comptences business skills mentoring, Paris, 2 our customers with their own environmental targets.
In Wooden Spoon and LandAid, among others.
Germany, we have the capacity to generate 6,959 MWh of We continue to be actively engaged with the communities green energy per year integrated into our buildings and we in which we operate.
In 2012, we supported a total of 68 will expand this in 2013.
In the UK we have 304 kWp of causes.
This included ongoing support for organisations such renewable energy installations across our portfolio in the as Ressourcerie 2mains in Paris and Age Concern in Slough form of wind turbines, solar PV, solar thermal and air ground which we supported in 2011, as well as engaging with new source heat pumps.
projects such as Haybrook College Kitchen Craft.
LEFT David Sleath pictured with Pippa Gough, Corporate Partnerships Manager, Children with Cancer UK.
028 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our support covers the provision of free commercial space, OUR INVESTORS business advice and guidance as well as donating cash and SEGRO places frequent and open communication with the 72% equipment.
In these difficult economic times our support is investment community among the highest of its priorities.
During Overall satisfaction as an increasingly important to these causes and they are very 2012 we met with approximately 150 investors through a occupier of our buildings grateful to us.
combination of one-to-one meetings, conferences and roadshows is rated at 72 per cent in locations including the UK, US, Netherlands and France.
For the fifth consecutive year, we supported The Outward Bound Trust, which sent 97 pupils from three schools Slough In November, we took a group of 34 analysts and investors on and Eton Business Enterprise College, Reading College and a tour of our assets in Paris.
This provided an opportunity to 96% The Westgate Secondary School to one of its residential outline how our French operations t within our wider Group of employees agree they courses to help young people from challenging backgrounds strategy.
We were also able to showcase some of our existing understand the aims and to learn new skills and develop their confidence.
assets, at sites such as La Courneuve and Le Blanc-Mesnil, as objectives of SEGRO well as some of those assets which we had acquired as part of the FEL acquisition.
We ensure that the Chairman and Senior Independent Director STAKEHOLDERS are available to our shareholders, should they have any concerns and where contact through our usual channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise inappropriate.
All Board OUR CUSTOMERS Directors are available for meetings with shareholders.
We once again conducted a Group-wide customer satisfaction The Companys website, www.
com, provides all survey in 2012, when we asked for feedback from our shareholders with comprehensive information on the Groups customers.
Overall satisfaction as an occupier of our buildings recent business activities and financial developments.
Shareholders can access this information through webcasts, press In 2012, and as a direct result of feedback from the 2011 releases and video-recorded interviews with the Chief Executive.
customer satisfaction survey, we launched our customer care policy.
This included a customer care handbook, which tells a OUR EMPLOYEES customer everything they need to know when they occupy one Understanding our strategic priorities One SEGRO of our buildings, and a dedicated section on our website which 2012 was a year of significant change for us.
The reorganisation details the process should customers wish to raise any issues in 2011, followed by an intensive phase of portfolio reshaping with us.
We are particularly pleased that 79 per cent of our in 2012, meant that it was important for us to raise the bar on customers in 2012 said they were satisfied with the way in which how we communicated internally.
Under the banner of One we communicate with them and we believe that the actions we SEGRO, our ambition was to make sure that everyone in the took during the year contributed to this performance.
business understood the part that they played in delivering the strategy through a proactive programme of internal OUR SUPPLIERS communications.
We expend a considerable amount on the purchase of At a Group level, to coincide with our external financial products, services and works each year.
The way in which we reporting cycle, the Chief Executive and other members manage our procurement and supply chain is increasingly of the Executive Committee hosted quarterly employee important to us in terms of our reputation, alignment with our presentations, connecting all of our employees through a social responsibility objectives and ensuring that we are Group webinar.
The webinars have provided an interactive way receiving value for money.
We reviewed and updated our for employees to engage with the presentations by giving them procurement policy in 2012.
We ensure that we work with the ability to ask questions direct to senior management via an companies who have the correct licences in place, where online chat facility.
This new communication tool has been key applicable, as well as gauging their approach to environmental in helping us to bring to life how our everyday actions are issues.
Using a supplier assessment form, we ask specic linked to the strategic goals of the business.
questions to ensure that our suppliers are following sustainable practices and are compliant with the relevant regulations.
At a local level, regular monthly briengs, led by business unit heads, took place where employees participated in business The total number of suppliers used by SEGRO is approximately performance updates at both Group and business unit level.
3,200 and this equates to a spend of approximately 300 million per annum.
LEFT Winners of the Outstanding Team Contribution to One SEGRO the London Heathrow Leasing, Asset Management and Development Team.
com 029 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED In 2012, we also introduced a regular all-employee newsletter from the Chief Executive called In the Know.
The newsletter is a mixture of business and social news, as well as highlighting HEALTH AND SAFETY individual and team successes during the course of the year.
We ended the year with our first all-employee One SEGRO conference in December, bringing together all of our teams We are proud of our excellent health and safety record, which for a London 2012 event.
has been achieved by implementing robust management controls and careful auditing procedures.
The health and safety During the conference, employees were recognised for their of our employees, contractors and all other parties who work outstanding contributions towards achievement of our strategic for us is a top priority.
We are fully committed to making our objectives.
The conference was a great success and we were business and our properties a safe and healthy place to work delighted to have given more than 40 awards to outstanding by achieving the highest standards in our health and safety individuals in recognition of their contribution to the business performance.
In 2012, we undertook a review of our existing health and Measuring our success safety policy to take into account our organisational changes At the end of 2012, we conducted an all employee and new business strategy.
We adopted a One SEGRO engagement survey, Your Say, with an independent survey approach to ensure that our health and safety strategy is specialist.
This was an opportunity for colleagues to provide consistently embedded within all the decision-making feedback on how they felt about working at SEGRO and we processes across the Group.
This new policy will ensure were delighted with the 91 per cent response rate we received.
that SEGROs focus and continuing commitment to improving health and safety throughout the Group are truly Given our focus during the year of communicating a clear reected within our procedures and business operations.
vision for SEGRO, we have been very pleased with the survey results we have received, with more than 96 per cent of In 2012, we successfully completed the Health and Safety employees agreeing that they understand the aims and Estate Audit Programme across Continental Europe.
In addition, more than 90 per cent of our audits have been established in the UK for a number of years employees care about the future of SEGRO and understand and the new combined approach provides further consistency how the work that they do helps us to achieve our aims.
towards how we proactively manage our estates.
While our portfolio reshaping has resulted in some Our Accident Frequency Rate for SEGRO employees reduced redundancies during the course of the year, we are encouraged to zero in 2012, compared with 0.35 per 200,000 hours by our high level of employee engagement scores during this worked in 2011.
There were no health and safety prosecutions period of significant change.
We are, however, clear that we or enforcement actions in 2012 and therefore we achieved need to continue to work hard to ensure that our employees our target in this respect.
feel fully consulted in the changes affecting the business and their roles.
In 2012 we set ourselves the target to assess and implement training requirements for the Group-wide Driving for Work During 2013, we will be cascading the results of the survey policy.
In the UK, 17 classroom-based training courses were to employees and holding workshops with the senior managers completed and six individuals were provided with an in-vehicle to reect, listen and take action on the areas of feedback where driver training session.
In Continental Europe, 66 employees we need to improve.
were assessed using an online work-related road risk assessment.
Developing our talent In 2012, we continued to focus on nurturing and promoting This year our targets will include the following: talent from within the organisation.
During the year, the vast majority of our promotions were made internally, reinforcing To maintain a zero fatality rate throughout Group our belief in the quality of our talent pipeline.
operations: To ensure no health and safety prosecutions or During 2012, we invested more than 2,452 hours in training enforcement actions throughout Group Operations: and and are pleased to report that through the Your Say survey, To implement the assessment and training requirements of 93 per cent of our employees told us that they felt that they the Group-wide Driving for Work policy.
had the knowledge and skills to do their jobs.
We continued to be a member of the Henley Partnership, run by Henley Business School, which offers a range of thought leadership events, focusing on current issues relevant to business, team-building and leadership skills.
Employees who have attended these events have found them very worthwhile, benefiting from tackling issues from a different perspective and debating matters with individuals from a range of different industries.
In 2012, 22 employees attended these partnership sessions.
Valuing diversity We are committed to offering equal opportunities to people with disabilities and, if an employee becomes disabled while in our employment, we will offer appropriate support, retraining, equipment and facilities to enable them to continue in their role with SEGRO.
We recognise the benets of diversity and the value this brings to the organisation in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
We have a good record of promoting and appointing women to senior roles.
Women hold four out of 15 positions on our Senior Leadership Team.
030 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCESSIBILITY AND FLEXIBILITY Accessibility continues to be a key consideration for us and we work with our customers, local authorities and transport providers to ensure that our estates are easily accessible.
To achieve this we have put in place travel plans so they can be reached in a way that is favourable to the environment.
During 2012, we maintained the green travel plans we have in place at the Slough Trading Estate and IQ Winnersh in the UK and Energy Park in Italy.
We continue to promote cycling to the workplace and encourage this by incorporating bike racks into the design of our buildings, while also operating a cycle park scheme for our employees.
We design and construct our industrial buildings so they can be easily adaptable for multiple uses and are, therefore, attractive to a wide variety of businesses.
This benets our customers because we have the exibility to meet their individual requirements.
It also benets local authorities and communities in the areas in which we operate by giving them a competitive advantage in attracting and retaining investment as well as safeguarding and creating new jobs.
COMPLIANCE WITH EPRA SUSTAINABILITY BEST PRACTICE RECOMMENDATIONS SEGRO is a member of the EPRA Sustainability Reporting Committee and has worked with the European publicly-listed real estate sector to lay out a set of recommendations for standardised reporting on key environmental impacts across the industry.
We continue to report against the EPRA Best Practice Recommendations and have made significant improvements in our Group-wide energy and water data reporting in 2012.
We have achieved an EPRA Bronze Award for the disclosure of operational energy, water, and waste performance data in our 2011 Sustainability Report.
