corporate responsibility SUSTAINABILITY Corporate responsibility is about how we operate, our impact on our environment and how we engage with our stakeholders.
The essence of our sustainability strategy is to extend the The Board has ultimate responsibility for corporate useful life of buildings and, in doing so, preserve and enhance responsibility but the ethos is embedded in the day-to-day the heritage of Londons West End in which all our buildings operations of our business.
Our remuneration policy is closely are located.
An essential aspect is to provide economically aligned with our corporate responsibility strategy and specific sustainable environments through a mix of uses.
Group corporate responsibility objectives are reflected in The average age of our buildings is over 150 years.
unmodernised properties need refurbishing or when we TEN YEARS OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING acquire buildings, we reconfigure and refurbish them within the constraints of current regulations governing listed buildings It is ten years since we first undertook a benchmark report with and conservation areas.
This extends their useful lives and an action plan to address corporate responsibility matters.
In improves their environmental performance whilst creating that time, key achievements have included: value over the long-term.
7KH LPSURYHPHQW RI PDQDJHPHQW DQG UHSRUWLQJ RI HQHUJ Our corporate responsibility policies, updated annually, are useand carbon emissions in the portfolio resulting in their available on our website.
The full report on our corporate progressive reduction over the past four years: responsibility performance for the year ended 30September $FKLHYLQJ DOPRVW GLYHUVLRQ IURP ODQGILOO RI ZDVWH 2012 is also available on our website together with our action generated from both the managed portfolio and plan for 2013. refurbishment projects: STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLES 3URJUHVVLYH LPSURYHPHQW LQ WKH PDQDJHPHQW RI Our policy is to minimise any adverse environmental impact of refurbishment projects as measured by the Considerate our business and operate in a sustainable manner.
In order to Constructors Scheme: achieve this we have set the following overall environmental $Q LQFUHDVH LQ WKH SURSRUWLRQ RI FHUWLILHG VXVWDLQDEO VRXUFHG and corporate responsibility objectives: timber used in refurbishment projects: and 2SHUDWH LQ DQ HQYLURQPHQWDOO VXVWDLQDEOH PDQQHU DQG &ORVH LQYROYHPHQW ZLWK WKH ORFDO FRPPXQLW DQG VLJQLILFDQW minimise the environmental impact of our operations, charitable contributions as measured in accordance with the including climate change: London Benchmarking Groups criteria.
:KHUHYHU SUDFWLFDO H[WHQG WKH HFRQRPLF XVHIXO OLYHV RI RXU We have been a constituent of the FTSE4 Good Index since buildings through changes of use and reconfiguration: 2004, which is designed to measure the performance of &RPSO ZLWK DOO OHJDO DQG UHJXODWRU UHTXLUHPHQWV DQG companies meeting globally recognised corporate responsibility where feasible, exceed minimum compliance: standards.
This year we were one of the regional leaders in the UK and the only real estate company listed.
VWDEOLVK DQQXDO WDUJHWV DQG HQFRXUDJH FRQWLQXDO improvement in environmental performance: We are a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and are listed in the Kempen SNS Smaller European Index, the first QJDJH ZLWK DGYLVRUV VXSSOLHUV WHQDQWV DQG VWDNHKROGHUV WR sustainable index for smaller European companies.
We are a disseminate the Groups corporate responsibility policies and member of the Global Real Estate Benchmark survey and requirements: prepared a report in line with the Global Reporting Index this, QYHVW LQ RXU ORFDO FRPPXQLW year, our firstreport to this standard.
&RQGXFW RXU EXVLQHVV ZLWK LQWHJULW DQG LQ DQ RSHQ DQG ethical manner: and, QYHVW LQ WKH ZHOIDUH DQG GHYHORSPHQW RI RXU HPSOR HHV page 42 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 corporate responsibility OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION corporate responsibility continued Greenhouse gas emissions for the head office and the portfolio IMPLEMENTING OUR POLICY including 50% of the Longmartin joint venture are set out We invest in and refurbish existing buildings which is in line below which shows a 6% reduction over the year.
with the Governments policy for maximising the re-use of existing land and buildings.
Recent studies have highlighted the Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 tCO e 2 importance of embodied energy contained within the fabric of existing buildings, recognising the overall environmental benefits of extending the useful lives and efficiency of existing 277 buildings rather than demolition and reconstruction.
Significant 259 regulatory emphasis is placed on carbon emissions of buildings throughout their operational lifetime, with focus on improvements in Building Regulations, Energy Performance Certificates and BREEAM Code for Sustainable Homes.
We support and implement these requirements wherever practical.
1174 1120 Refurbishment projects Almost all of our buildings are within conservation areas and many are listed.
Within these constraints, we seek to refurbish buildings in a sympathetic manner re-using existing timber and original building fixtures and fittings where possible.
When 69 52 installing new fixtures and plant, consideration is given to 2011 2012 environmental performance as well as building regulations.
For the small amount of timber that is purchased, the aim is to use sustainably sourced products, particularly those certified to the Emission types as follows: Forestry Stewardship Commission or Programme for the Scope 1 Direct eg gas boilers.
Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes.
Scope 2 Ener gy indirect eg emissions associated with Through contractor management procedures, including consumption of purchased electricity.
checklists and supporting information, we require the appropriate disposal of waste, segregation and recycling where Scope 3 Other indir ect eg business travel and losses in possible and collation of information on waste quantities transmission of fuels and electricity.
Sample sites were audited for good practice against Our aim is to select suppliers of green electricity in our villages duty of care for waste management and were confirmed to be where such supplies are available and economically justifiable.
EMPLOYEES Day-to-day management We have 22 employees including executive directors.
In the day-to-day management of our portfolio, energy Employees experience is important and their contribution to consumption and waste management are the key the business plays a key part in the delivery of our strategy.
Employee turnover has been minimal in recent years.
We manage the waste on behalf of our tenants at Carnaby, Training and development is essential and is monitored and Seven Dials and St Martins Courtyard.
The emphasis is on recorded.
Professional employees are encouraged to meet the encouraging recycling with increased proportions recycled this training requirements of their professional bodies.
Nonyear and all of the remaining waste was diverted from landfill professional employees are also encouraged to undertake to energy from waste.
In other parts of the portfolio, space training.
All employees had an annual personal development limitations restrict the opportunity to offer waste management review.
facilities, however, we work with the local authorities to optimise the waste collection process in these areas.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Our energy consumption is principally in the common parts of The Board has overall responsibility for health and safety.
On our refurbishment sites, responsibility for health and safety is our portfolio where we have direct responsibility for stairwell identified within all pre-tender documentation and is monitored lights and shared facilities, so the environmental impact is by site and project managers.
Our managing agents oversee small.
Tenants are responsible for their own activities and day-to-day health and safety matters throughout the portfolio.
emissions and for reporting on them and are encouraged to be aware of their own environmental impact.
There have been no reportable health and safety incidents during the year.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 43 corporate responsibility corporate responsibility continued Theatre Company, London Chinatown Association and COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Chinatown Arts Space.
Our long-term prosperity depends on the success of Londons West End as a destination for domestic and overseas visitors as Support for charitable, community andeducational well as businesses and residents.
We are very clear that our purposes commitment is aligned with the areas in which our villages are We provide space in vacant units for periods of time to enable situated and in the aspects that benefit the West End both as a charitable, community and educational events to take place.
We work closely with We work with The Connection at , organisations based in the West End in community, leisure or Make Justice Work and other local community and arts fields and in some cases help them to be located in the educational groups.
areas in which they operate but otherwise would be unable to Working with local authorities afford.
We work closely with Westminster City Council and the We have focused on the following this year: London Borough of Camden, within whose jurisdictions our Sustainable Restaurant Association properties are located, to improve the public realm in and We have continued to work to promote this not-for-profit around our villages through contributions to street membership association which provides restaurants with advice improvements, pedestrianisation and street lighting and support to help them manage sustainability.
Working with the creative arts Scholarships The promotion of the arts, theatre and leisure within the West We are in the process of establishing a number of End is important to our continuing business.
We therefore scholarships in areas relating to our tenants businesses of work with arts organisations, theatres and galleries to fashion and catering.
We worked with the English National Opera We have adopted the London Benchmarking Group methodology and sponsored an Opera Squad day in 2012 which introduced for measuring our community contributions.
For the year ended opera to local Westminster schools.
30September 2012 our contribution totalled 404,000 2011: We provide accommodation on flexible terms to a number of 356,000.
In addition to this, we contributed 211,000 2011: organisations including the Association of British Orchestras, 700,000 to works in the public realm.
Stage One, National Campaign for the Arts, Yellow Earth KEY TARGETS AND PROGRESS IN THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2012 AND OBJECTIVES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD Set out below is a summary of progress against a number of key targets this year and the objectives for the year to 30 September 2013.
We are measured against our objectives and targets and independently assessed by RPS Group plc.
The full report is available on our website.
Objectives Achieved in 2012 Targets for 2013 Stakeholder and community engagement Continue to support local community Membership of the London Benchmarking Continue membership of London groups and be proactive in working with Group and adoption of their methodology Benchmarking Group and further develop charitable and other organisations for reporting community involvement has benchmarking measurements for continued for this year reporting On-going financial support to key charities and community support for 2012-2013 Engage and raise corporate responsibility For commercial tenants sustainability Replace tenants leaflet with a more detailed awareness and engagement with tenants guidance was included within the insurance sustainability guide for commercial tenants pack which is currently being updated as part of insurance pack The residential tenants leaflet has been Ensure sustainability leaflet for residential updated and is included within a tenants is included in all new letting packs welcomepack Seventeen restaurants originally signed up Provide subsidised two-year membership with the Sustainable Restaurant Association of the Sustainable Restaurant Association for every new restaurant tenant page 44 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 corporate responsibility OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION corporate responsibility continued Objectives Achieved in 2012 Targets for 2013 Environmental responsibility Invest in brownfield sites only 100% regeneration of central London sites Continue to achieve 100% use and regeneration of brownfield sites as our portfolio expands Operate in an environmentally sustainable For fifteen refurbishment schemes a Maintain BREEAM criteria for re-use of manner throughout our activities minimum of 90% of facade was retained structure and facade in 100% of and 80% of the primary structure refurbishment ie a minimum of 50% of the facade and 80% of the primary structure re-used Aim for BREEAM Very Good for all new commercial developments Out of 37 post refurbishment energy Extend the useful life of buildings and , 25 had no improve their sustainability by raising the baseline certificate.
Ten achieved the energy performance certificate rating of specific target and two did not achieve the properties on refurbishment according to target set targets Manage construction waste to ensure legal All eight contracts above 300,000 threshold Ensure all contracts above the threshold of compliance and maximise re-use and or completed site waste management plans 300,000 complete a site waste management recycling of non-hazardous waste plan Eleven contracts achieved target of a minimum of 80% recycled construction and Aim to re-use or recycle 80% non-hazardous demolition waste demolition and construction waste Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a 93% of eligible schemes were registered Continue to achieve 26 40 above a specified capital value are registered with satisfactory score 100% of schemes achieved the target score the Considerate Constructors Scheme and on the first visit.
The overall average for the continue to achieve 26 40 above a sites visited was a commendable 31 out of 40 satisfactory score Timber to be sourced where possible from Re-use of timber maximised throughout all Continue to maximise the proportion of timber well-managed sources, certified by third schemes that is re-used party certification bodies 63% of timber has been confirmed as Source a minimum of 55% of all timber from sustainably sourced with full chain of custody certified sources and ensure all timber is legal Aim for common parts normalised data to Monitor and where possible reduce energy Overall energy consumption for the 2 consumption and investigate opportunities managed portfolio within its operational not exceed 100 kg C0 m 2 for the use of renewable energy control including the head office, and its 50% share of the joint venture compared with 2010-2011 shows 14% reduction Green tariff electricity usage: Purchase green electricity where costs are 100% of head office within 5% of brown electricity 83% of Chinatown 63% of Soho 100% of Seven Dials 100% of Carnaby Monitor water use in Carnaby, Seven Dials Reductions in water consumption in all Continue to monitor water use in Carnaby, and Chinatown and maintain consistent monitored areas Seven Dials and Chinatown and maintain level of usage current low usage Portfolio waste - recycle a minimum of At Carnaby and Seven Dials, 37% of Divert from landfill 90% of tenant 30% at Carnaby and Seven Dials and divert tenants waste was recycled and, of the generated waste at Carnaby, Seven Dials 80% from landfill remaining waste, 100% was diverted from and Longmartin which account for 70% of landfill to energy from waste the portfolio Recycle a minimum of 10% of tenants In Longmartin11% of tenants waste was waste in Longmartin and divert 80% from recycled and the remaining waste diverted landfill from landfill to energy from waste Improve biodiversity appropriate to the Bird boxes and green roof installed Design and install, where feasible, features companys urban location to encourage appropriate urban wildlife and planting of trees, where appropriate SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 45 corporate responsibility corporate responsibility continued Objectives Achieved in 2012 Targets for 2013 Employees Monitor effectiveness of employment Staff turnover is zero, average employee Maintain current benchmarks legislation and policies length of service is thirteen years, 20% of the Board is female and 45% of employees are female Achieve zero reportable health and safety Zero reportable health and safety accidents Achieve zero reportable accident and accidents incidents throughout the incidents recorded within refurbishment incidents throughout 100% of the portfolio portfolio projects and the managed portfolio Brian Bickell Chief Executive 29 November 2012 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 46 corporate responsibility OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION chapter headings continued governance directors, officers and advisors 48 corporate governance 50 nomination committee 53 remuneration report 55 audit committee 63 directors report 65 summary report by the valuers 67 directors responsibilities 69 independent auditors report 70 page 47
