20 Our Sustainability Approach Management & Governance Sustainability underpins our business strategy, playing a holistic role across our business.
Implemented through our CSR activities, we Responsible for developing and supporting the We continually monitor and report progress ensure that the Material Issues of our business implementation of our sustainability strategy and against our targets to the Group Executive and key stakeholders are addressed as part of targets, our CSR Steering Committee consists of Committee.
Our annual results, covering our sustainability strategy.
four Pillar Owners who are senior managers with economic, social and environmental expertise in one of our Four Pillars: Environment, performance are communicated through our Our CSR Department is a corporate function and People, Partners and Neighbours.
Reecting our Annual Report & Accounts, Sustainability Report, part of our dedicated CSR Steering Committee, overall business management approach, we online GRI response, CDP disclosure and on our who report directly into our Group Executive also have four Regional Representatives who are website at www.
This open and Committee and subsequently the Board.
This is supported by Regional CSR Steering Committees transparent reporting ensures that our via an Executive Committee member who sits to ensure that our sustainability strategy, targets stakeholders are kept informed of our CSR alongside the CSR Steering Committee Chairman.
and progress are communicated and supported activities and can see how our sustainability around the world.
strategy is safeguarding our future.
Sustainability Strategy We manage our business across the triple bottom line, as a product or service can only be considered truly sustainable when the demands of economy, environment and society are met.
We will continually strive to align our operations with this strategy.
Our sustainability strategy is underpinned by our mission to:   To ensure that our sustainability strategy is well and processes by minimising their effect on the so as to provide a safe and healthy informed, we use our risk management environment, whilst maximising the efficient environment in which to work: framework, stakeholder engagement and use of all resources: strategic discussions with our Group Executive  Committee to define our Material Issues.
 all stakeholders and work cooperatively to raw materials and products both up and down address our Material Issues: Each Material Issue has a clear management our supply chain:  approach within the business to establish clear employees to reach their full potential: and strategy development, performance  where we will have long term growth: management and implementation  responsibilities.
 conditions, providing a stimulating working when appropriate, set our own more environment based on respect and demanding standards: partnership.
For more information see our 2012 Sustainability Report or visit www.
com csr s e v i t 0 1 a t 1 1 n e s e 9 r p e s C e o R e m y 1 l o 2 m 8 a l p u n n m i t o E y i g e 7 R e e s t 1 t i 3 e m P i i t l m s l i 6 a s y e a o e t v li u r s r s i C i b A t s i e I t s l g l n r a a g c O o 21 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Materiality Our Materiality Matrix, established in 2011, maps the most significant issues that will affect the long term success of our business against their importance to our stakeholders.
Managed through our Four Pillar approach, we Group Executive Committee.
As a result of this During 2012, particular focus was placed on two have six Material Areas and 18 Material Issues.
meeting in 2012, we have broadened our Material Issues following a risk review: CSR targets have been set with our Group previous Landll Waste Material Issue to Land responsible supply chain management and Executive Committee to ensure that progress is Impact in order to reect our growing focus on consistent community engagement.
Increased made in addressing our Material Issues, which biodiversity.
We have also redened Ethical communication and interaction with our ultimately supports our sustainability strategy.
Supply Chain to incorporate product stewardship suppliers, customers and community groups and product quality, and all three Community through our management of Corporate Our materiality and targets are reviewed on an Material Issues have been revised to provide a Stakeholders and Community ensured that we annual basis at a Strategic Review Meeting better illustration of the community impact and can report progress in these areas.
between the CSR Steering Committee and our resulting business benefit.
Product Data Gathering Corporate Stakeholders 17.
Ethical Supply Chain a ri i p T r e n s e t R e a i S t A w R r C R a M r e u e M 8 n O 1 1 s e 4 5 R 6 p e t S o r S y n s t R s e i C S f b a l C e S S & 1 4 o 5 h u t r l c a i n e g H t n 1 3 6 C e o r m p o t r r a t a t n e 1 e 2 p 7 S m t e a n k o D e r i h v R o n l E S d 1 1 8 e C r s 22 Environment As an environmentally responsible company, we have established an effective means of managing the Material Issues of Air Quality and Climate Change, Water Quality and Supply and Land Impact.
From our baseline year of 2010, we set five year targets to focus our efforts as we continually work towards reducing greenhouse gas GHG emissions and our impact on the increasingly stressed resources of water and land.
Key Highlights Material Issues Air Quality & Climate Change To reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases to the environment from our manufacturing sites to ensure that we progress towards more sustainable operations Water Quality & Supply 15.2 To minimise the environmental burden arising from water usage and Group energy from non-fossil fuel sources waste water discharges from our manufacturing sites Land Impact To mitigate the environmental burden our activities place on land, 3 water and air by seeking to preserve biodiversity and phase out the disposal of waste to landll 572,000m Water reduction, equivalent to 240 Olympic swimming pools 5.4 Reduction in energy consumption 50 Reduction in waste sent to landll, equivalent to over 120 truck loads For more information see our 2012 Sustainability Report Compared to 2010 Previously Landll Waste or visit www.
com csr 23 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Health and Safety FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We recognise the major business risk associated with the poor management of process risks, which is why Process Safety Management is placed at the top of our list of priorities.
Occupational Health and Safety is just as important, requiring the sustained commitment of all employees to comply with legislation and our own high standards.
We are dedicated to developing a competent workforce who take responsibility for the safety of our operations.
Material Issues Key Highlights Process Safety Management To reduce risks associated with all of our chemical processes to a point deemed to be as low as reasonably practicable ALARP Occupational Health & Safety To reduce the frequency of injuries to all of those who work at our operations to a level compatible with the top quartile of peer companies, with an aspiration goal of zero harm 13 Point Quality Criteria for PRAs implemented 1 2 Lost time injury rate well below the industry average Most recent Cec Responsible Care data Process Risk Assessments 24 Responsible Sourcing The foundation of our business rests upon natural ingredients, with such a large percentage of our raw materials originating from renewable sources.
Our new product developments also foster this principle, whilst meeting the demands of our customers and the stringent safety standards within our industry.
This goes hand in hand with sustainable supply, which is why we continue to be strong advocates for the responsible sourcing of palm oil and its derivatives.
To ensure that we make fully informed decisions, we place growing importance on the management of the increasing amounts of data regarding our products and processes.
Material Issues Key Highlights Renewable Raw Materials To ensure that our product portfolio is sustainable and to dedicate new product development to meeting our customer needs in this area 66.3 Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing To fully support sustainable palm oil PO and palm kernel oil PKO of our raw materials originate and to keep working with the industry to secure a sustainable source of derivatives from renewable sources, making us industry leaders Product Data Gathering To ensure that we are leaders in the quality and quantity of product data to support all future customer needs and to allow further in depth sustainability analysis of our products internally 100 of PO and PKO used in 2012 supported sustainable palm oil of new products originate from 30 99 renewable raw materials For more information see our 2012 Sustainability Report or visit www.
com csr 25 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Employees FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our employees are integral to our business success.
Our HR teams, in conjunction with business leaders, ensure that we have an effective framework for recruiting, developing and retaining employees in a fair and supportive environment across all of the countries in which we operate.
Our global HR Strategy builds on existing HR systems, policies and procedures across our five employee Material Issues.
Material Issues Key Highlights Recruitment & Retention To attract, recruit and retain high calibre employees to support our th objectives and changing business requirements Compensation & Benets 25 To ensure that our compensation and benets packages enable Anniversary of the Croda us to attract, recruit and retain key talent Graduate Programme HR Policies & Systems To operate streamlined, fair and coherent employment policies and systems Talent Management & Employee Development To offer a wide range of development opportunities to enable our employees at all levels to gain the skills, competencies and 60 experience necessary to attain individual, team and organisational goals and expectations of our employees have access to Performance Management company funded health checks To instil a high performance culture through an integrated and consistent approach to performance management 100 of new employees completed an induction during their first six months 26 Corporate Stakeholders We are committed to upholding ethical and sustainable standards across all of our operations, and within our supply chain, to meet and exceed the expectations of others.
By actively engaging with our key stakeholders, we are able to target the economic, environmental and social issues with the potential to affect the long term success of our business.
Our proactive approach to sharing and developing our expertise, both within our industry and in areas relating to our Material Issues, sees us working with many different organisations to continuously improve product safety and quality.
Material Issues Key Highlights Corporate Stakeholder Engagement To have open, ongoing engagement with all key stakeholders to identify and review the Material Issues for our business and all our partners, thus ensuring that we take appropriate action Global Customer Ethical Supply Chain Sustainability Survey To continually strive to increase engagement and standards within our supply chain to ensure that it is ethical and sustainable, so as to meet the future needs of our business Revised Supplier Code of Conduct sent to over 10,000 companies Checking our Materiality with key stakeholders For more information see our 2012 Sustainability Report or visit www.
com csr 27 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Community FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Interaction with local communities has always been a major part of our culture.
We are aware that our activities have a direct impact on the communities surrounding our operations, particularly our manufacturing sites and large ofces.
Our mission is to ensure that our proactive, engaging approach to community communication, involvement and education enhances our relationships and supports our local communities, whilst also improving employee morale and skills.
Material Issues Key Highlights Community Communication To develop relationships with the communities in which we operate through effective communication regarding our business operations and, in doing so, ensure that we consider local concerns to gain support for business growth Community Involvement To put community communication into action in order to deliver real benets to the communities in which we operate and, in doing so, enhance the performance of our employees and support the 4,541 recruitment needs of our business 1% Club volunteering hours, Community Education To raise the prole of science, technology and engineering by providing equivalent to c. 80,000 community education and training opportunities relevant to the communities in which we operate and, in doing so, enhance our brand and reputation, as well as develop employee skills More than one in five employees used 1% Club time 314 Reported meetings with local community groups
