Corporate governance report Awards with a Gold Award for the a range of standard business items regimes including the circular issued standard of its online training tool.
Routine to shareholders for the business of These areas augmented the routine business items include reports from the General Meeting at which the business of the Committee that is the Chief Financial Officer and Internal disposal of the Handset Operations undertaken according to its terms of Auditor as well as a draft form of the was considered and approved as reference, which are also explained in announcement on the Groups well as work to ensure the Group was more detail below.
financial results for each quarter.
In able to comply with the requirements addition, the Audit Committee of Section 404 of the US SarbanesAndrew Allner addresses a number of other items as Oxley Act of 2002 as of 28 December Chairman Audit Committee part of its schedule of business 2012.
More details on this work are through the course of a year, such as set out below.
risk management, business continuity Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews all planning, treasury policy and  proposed announcements to be procedures, tax planning and the  made by the Group to the extent they Groups policy manual as well as  contain financial information.
In the such ad hoc matters as are deemed requirements, riskmanagementand preparation of such statements, the appropriate.
In Audit Committee considers the level items for the calendar year was last , the of disclosure and how these comply reviewed and approved by the Audit  with prevailing accounting standards Committee in July 2012 and was development, implementationand as well as good practice.
From time considered to remain appropriate for  to time, the Audit Committee has 2012 and into 2013.  instigated reviews of the approach  The Audit Committee invites the Chief taken by management on specific externalauditors.
TheAuditCommittee Executive Officer, the Chief Financial items with due regard to prevailing  Officer, the Internal Auditor and senior interpretation and practice.
In 2012,  representatives of the external the Audit Committee was also  auditors to attend meetings as advised on the timing of the subsidiaries.
Thisincludes appropriate to the business being introduction of new reporting  considered.
In addition, the Audit standards, how they impact the  Committee has the right to invite any Group, and appropriate action to  other employees to attend meetings ensure the Group will comply, which , where this is considered to be has also been shared with the whererelevant.
  The conduct of the business of the Each quarter, as part of its routine , Audit Committee business, the Audit Committee  The Audit Committee met six times in receives a detailed report from the  2012 in the execution of its Chief Financial Officer on the finalreports.
The more material performance of the Group.
In addition matters considered and any to a summary of the balance sheet The Audit Committee recommends proposals for action were reported by and income statement, the report the appointment and re-appointment the Chairman of the Audit Committee incorporates detailed analysis on a of the Groups external auditors and to the subsequent meeting of the full range of key metrics which tracks the considers the scope of their audit Board.
During 2012, in addition to the performance of the Group and its work, the terms of their appointment, routine business, the Audit operating segments.
This information their fees and the cost effectiveness Committee received reports on forms part of the discussions by the of their work.
The forthcoming additional matters falling within its Audit Committee to ensure that changes under the Corporate terms of reference, including on the material matters are properly Governance Code in respect of the disposal of the Handset Operations to considered and discussed with appointment of external auditors has Samsung, and the key financial management and, where appropriate, been discussed, and consideration is matters connected with the disposal.
The information being given to the appropriate action This included discussions on the and the discussions support the in respect of these changes.
potential impact on the business of understanding of the Audit Committee the transfer of over 300 employees to and the Board on the nature of The Audit Committee monitors the Samsung and the measures being disclosures which should be made in effectiveness of the Groups internal taken by management to mitigate the Groups financial results.
The control systems, accounting policies against the potential adverse impact Audit Committee periodically and practices, risk management from the loss of such a significant discusses the nature of the analysis procedures and compliance controls, proportion of the Groups employee which is provided in reports which it and also reviews the statement on base on sustaining the efficient and receives and considers areas for internal controls before it is agreed by cost effective performance of the enhancement to reflect the evolving the Board for each years annual remaining business in support of the business of the Group.
The Committee in the latter part of 2012, the Audit A detailed agenda of matters for also received reports on the Committee considered the possible discussion at the meeting, together disclosures forming part of the impact of potential changes to the with supporting papers is provided in information contained in public organisation and in the reporting of advance of each meeting of the Audit announcements to shareholders as performance of the Groups Committee.
The agenda incorporates required under UK and US reporting segments to the Chief Executive 58 59 www.
com At 28 December 2012, the Group to the principles of the UK Bribery Corporate had cash resources of $333 million, Act.
This work is ongoing and Governance Report an increase from the $278 million held progress reports will form part of the at the end of the prior year.
The net business of the Audit Committee at continued inflow arises from the day-to-day future meetings.
operations of the Group, after the Interaction with the external return of capital to shareholders Auditors resulting from the tender offer, share During 2012, as part of its formal buybacks and payment of a final and business, the Audit Committee met interim dividend during the year.
on six occasions with the external These are discussed in the Business auditors.
On two occasions the Audit Review on pages 31 to 34.
The Audit Committee also held separate Officer following completion of the Committee monitors the Groups meetings with the external auditors at disposal of the Handset Operations to Treasury function on a regular basis, which no executive director or Samsung and the associated including where appropriate periodic employee of the Company was changes in the reporting of the external audits of the Treasury present.
functions policies, procedures and working practices.
The Groups In relation to the appointment of The Audit Committee monitors the Treasury Policy was most recently external auditors and in order to effectiveness of the internal audit reviewed in October 2012 and the safeguard auditor independence and function, considering and approving findings reported for consideration by objectivity, the Audit Committee has a the scope of the annual internal audit the Audit Committee at its scheduled policy of permitted services which plan, and thereafter reviewing reports meeting in October 2012.
The review details the services that can be on the results of internal audit work included amendments to the provided by the Groups auditors and which has been conducted.
The Audit approved counterparties with whom those services which require specific Committee receives reports on a the Company might place cash on advance approval by the Audit quarterly basis setting out the findings deposit to reflect managements Committee.
The policy also details from the reviews performed, in assessment, in conjunction with services that the Groups auditors are addition to the progress made in independent reports received on not permitted to provide.
The addressing any outstanding changes to the ratings of certain objective is that the auditors should recommendations arising from earlier financial institutions.
not be employed to provide services audits which have been conducted.
where either the nature of the work or The plan provides for a rolling The routine business of the extent of the services and fee payable schedule of visits to all offices within Committee at each meeting includes might impair the auditors the Group, as well as the review of an update on a range of ongoing independence or objectivity.
The various functions and activities, both litigation and litigation related matters external auditors are permitted to financial and non-financial.
This review is undertake some non-audit services, also supported by a sub-committee Since the Company became subject providing this has been awarded after of the Board led by the Chairman, the to the reporting requirements of the due consideration of their skills, purpose of which is to consider US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, competence and integrity to carry out matters connected with material the Audit Committee has received the work in the best interests of the litigation.
Both the Audit Committee reports from management regarding Group, on for example, advisory and the Litigation sub-committee the Companys compliance with services and due diligence activities have access to the advice and requirements under the Exchange Act associated with potential acquisitions.
support of the Groups executive including those rules and regulations For permitted services, the Audit management and outside counsel that apply by reason of the US Committee has delegated the where considered appropriate.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that determination of fees to the Chief results of these meetings are reported relate to financial reporting and other Financial Officer, provided the fee to the Board as appropriate.
No requirements relate, among other  services can be provided in excess of things, to disclosure controls and  100,000 without the prior approval procedures and internal control over  of the Audit Committee.
The policy, financial reporting which applied as of  which was reviewed in October 2012, the end of the 2011 financial year.
 was complied with throughout the The Internal Auditor reports on  year.
This  compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley   each quarter based on the approved training,   internal audit plan.
   As part of the adoption of the internal auditors, DeloitteLLP Deloitte.
, audit plan, the Audit Committee also   considers and approves the utilisation   of external resources to assist in appropriate, giventheirin-depth  timely execution and reporting, where   required.
    HandsetOperations, includingthe  CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate governance report 2012 2011 2010 Total Feesto theGroupsAuditors $000 $000 $000 Audit Fees 883 1,007 745 Audit-related services 110 44 44 Taxation services 672 466 394 Other Services 350 2,380 Total 2,015 3,897 1,183 circular issued to shareholders in Deloitte has been the Companys management.
This includes connection with seeking approval of auditors since July 2002 and the cost, discussions with senior management the disposal.
The Audit Committee scope and effectiveness of the audit of the Group and consideration of considered the appointment of are reviewed regularly.
The most reports that have been submitted.
Deloitte for this work and determined recent full review, including release of These findings are in turn regularly that, not only was their appointment tenders to other possible audit firms reviewed and discussed by the full the most cost effective way of was conducted in 2005.
The Board is satisfied that this conducting the business, but also Chairman of the Audit Committee has process accords with the internal that no conflicts of interest existed led a meeting which reviewed the control guidance for directors set out between such non-audit work and the effectiveness of the external auditors in the Turnbull Report Internal role as auditor.
The Audit Committee which concluded that Deloitte was Control: the Revised Guidance for is satisfied that, notwithstanding this performing satisfactorily and should Directors on the Combined Code work, Deloitte have retained be recommended for re-appointment and that through its interface with objectivity and independence during at the Annual General Meeting to be management, the Board is aware of the year.
held in 2013. the major risks facing the Group and the steps taken by the Group to The table above shows the fees paid The Chairman of the Audit Committee mitigate such risks, so far as is by the Company to the external attends the Companys Annual possible.
auditors as approved by the Audit General Meeting to respond to any Committee.
shareholder questions that might be A risk evaluation process has been in raised concerning the Audit place throughout 2012 and was in Approval for permitted non-audit Committees activities.
place up to the date of approval of services is sought as required under this Annual Report and the financial the Committees policy.
The risk evaluation total non-audit related fees were Philosophy and policy process has been the subject of $1,132,000 2011: $2,846,000.
The The objective of the directors and review by the Audit Committee during most significant element stated above senior management is to safeguard 2012.
This ongoing review process in Other Services related to the and increase the value of the included an update on the progress in transaction with Samsung where the business and assets of the Company.
addressing the disclosure and appointment of Deloitte was Part of this objective requires the management of key risks affecting the approved by the Audit Committee.
development of relevant policies and Group.
The Audit Committee considered that appropriate internal controls to ensure performance of the relevant non-audit proper management of the During November 2012, KPMG LLP services by Deloitte was the most Companys resources and the was appointed to support cost effective way of conducting the identification of risks which might management in the conduct of a requisite work and therefore in the serve to undermine them.
comprehensive review of the Groups best interest of the Group having due approach to the identification, The Board is ultimately responsible for regard to the competence and scoring, ranking and measures for the Groups system of internal control knowledge possessed by Deloitte, mitigating risk across all aspects of and for reviewing its effectiveness.
including in previously supporting a the Groups activities.
This has The systems and processes similarly complex cross border included support with the annual established by the Board are acquisition by the Company in 2009 review of risks which might affect the designed to manage, rather than of SiRF Technology Holdings Inc and Group which is conducted across all eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the acquisition of Zoran Corporation functions.
KPMG have supported business objectives and provide in 2011.
The Committee was also management in the conduct of these reasonable, not absolute, assurance satisfied that no conflicts of interest assessments since 2010. against misstatement or loss.
The existed or would arise in the conduct Board has delegated responsibility for The executive leadership review the of the work on behalf of the Group.
the review of practices and results of these scores and the During the year a total of $3.27 million procedures to the Audit Committee.
In their review, the 2011: $4.03 million was paid to The Companys senior management, executive leadership consider how other accounting firms for non-audit in conjunction with external advisers, the risks might impact upon the work, including $1.4 million for work are responsible for undertaking achievement of the Groups strategic in relation to tax advice to the Group periodic reviews of the suitability of objectives and the overall provided by  current systems on which they report performance of the business.
Where LLP, Ernst & Young, KPMG and to the Audit Committee.
a risk is considered to be material, a BDO.
Audit-related fees were member of the executive leadership is $0.1 million and consisted of the The Audit Committee considers the made responsible for developing a performance of overseas statutory findings from such reviews to ensure plan intended to mitigate against the audits.
the effectiveness and efficiency of the risk actually occurring or to respond processes implemented by senior in the event the risk were to occur.
com prioritised risks is developed and provides information on the process Corporate reviewed by management to ensure to follow in the event that any Governance Report that possible mitigation measures are employee feels it appropriate to make considered and plans for action a disclosure where they believe there continued agreed.
Responsibility is assigned has been improper conduct or within the Group for carrying out actions which could cause the proposed actions which are also Groups good standing to be called reviewed and up-dated by into question.
The policy was most management.
recently updated during 2010 and is published on the Groups intranet Controlling risk site.
All employees have been The Group has policies which reminded of the existence of the address a range of key business The plans are the subject of review by policy and its purpose.
The policy has risks, including financial, treasury, the Audit Committee of the material been translated into certain languages health and safety and the protection risks each half year.
where it was felt the English language of intellectual property.
The policies version may inhibit a detailed At the meeting of the Board held in are made available to relevant understanding of its terms.
The February 2013, the Directors employees through an intranet site policies outline how employees can considered the basis on which risks and also via employee briefings on report matters of concern and of the affecting the Group were identified, specific topics.
As part of its review of Companys commitment to respond and how management intends to policies and procedures maintained appropriately to circumstances manage the risks going forward, by the Group, during 2012 the Audit warranting investigation.
The Audit including how action plans are Committee has received reports on Committee is satisfied that the policy prioritised.
That meeting determined progress with harmonising policies provides an adequate basis for that the steps being taken by following the acquisition of Zoran.
In employees to make representations in management were satisfactory.
The conducting the integration, confidence to the Group and for Board receives up-dates on the management has adapted prevailing appropriate and proportionate ongoing actions in addressing the policies to ensure best in class investigation.
principal risks as part of its routine principles have been implemented, business.
learning from the experience and In response to the growth in the competencies of the respective Groups operations globally, new Managing risks policies from each of CSR and Zoran.
arrangements allowing for a more The Board discusses with effective capture and reporting on management the actions it considers Periodically, reviews are performed in whistle-blowing issues were necessary to remedy any failings and order to verify that ongoing practices implemented during 2011, supported weaknesses which have been within relevant parts of the Group by an external agent selected based determined to be significant from its comply with current policies.
In on their experience in supporting a review of the system of internal addition, policies are themselves number of larger companies and control.
This has involved considering reviewed against best practice and in institutions in the areas of whistlethe matters reported to it and order to take appropriate account of blowing and compliance with the UK developing plans and programmes developments both within or external Bribery Act.
During the early part of that it considers are reasonable in the to the Groups business operations.
2013, the policy has been the subject circumstances.
As part of a process of continuous of review in conjunction with external improvement, steps are ongoing to advisers, intended to re-fresh the A summary of the structures and embed internal control and risk policy to reflect evolving best practice.
processes in place to identify and management further into the manage risks across the Group are operations of the Group and to deal Monitoring and managing the set out below.
with areas of improvement which status of residual risk come to managements and to the The actions arising from external and Risk profiling Boards attention.
internal assessments of risks are There is an ongoing process to consolidated and during 2012, the identify and evaluate risks faced by  results were reported to the Audit the Group, through the conduct of  Committee.
regular meetings by the Groups pages33to34, theGrouphasa senior management, and engagement  The Audit Committee assesses the of external consultants where, in the .
findings and proposed actions for opinion of the Groups senior , and addressing residual risks and also management, this is considered reflectingmanagement advises on areas for further attention.
Findings are reported to recommendations, theAudit the Audit Committee together with Internal financial controls  recommended actions for managing The Group has a comprehensive .
This the risks and a timetable for system for regular monitoring and  implementation of appropriate reporting of financial performance and .
The assessment of assessing the adequacy of the prioritised risks is refreshed on a As one aspect of ensuring a culture of Groups systems of internal controls.
regular basis to reflect changes to the integrity and encouraging high Risk assessment and evaluation is an business and any observations or standards throughout the integral part of the annual planning proposals arising from events since organisation, the Group has a formal cycle.
This includes assessment of the last review.
A schedule of the whistle-blowing policy.
The policy the Groups strategic direction, CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate governance report objectives and financial returns and During the 52 week period ended Independence the risks in achieving them.
28 December 2012, there have not The NASDAQ rules require that a been any changes in the Groups majority of the Board be comprised of As part of the planning cycle, a internal control over financial reporting independent directors and the rules detailed budget is prepared by that have materially affected, or are include detailed definitions that US management and thereafter is reasonably likely to materially affect, companies must use for determining reviewed and formally adopted by the the Groups internal control over independence.
The budget and other targets financial reporting.
are regularly updated via a rolling The Code requires that at least half forecasting process and regular The executive management, with the the Board excluding the Chairman business review meetings are also participation of the Chief Executive should comprise independent nonheld involving senior management Officer and Chief Financial Officer, executive directors.
worldwide, at which the Groups evaluated the effectiveness of the The Companys Board currently overall performance is assessed.
The Groups disclosure controls and comprises three executive directors, results of these reviews are reported procedures as defined in Rules six non-executive directors and the to and discussed by the Audit 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under the Chairman.
In accordance with the Committee and the Board at each US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Code, the Chairman of the Board of meeting.
A summary of the key as amended, or the Exchange Act as Directors and Dr Gerzberg are not financial and non-financial risks at 28 December 2012.
inherent in the Groups business is such evaluation the Chief Executive given on pages 45 to 50.
Officer and Chief Financial Officer While the Board does not explicitly concluded that, as at 28 December take into consideration NASDAQs These processes are supported by 2012, the Groups disclosure controls detailed definitions of independence, discrete reviews conducted by the and procedures were effective in it has carried out an assessment Internal Auditor and external advisers, ensuring that the information which based on the requirements of the as determined by the Audit the Group is required to disclose in Code and has determined in its Committee, in addition to the routine the reports that are filed or submitted judgment that, with the exception of audits.
under the Exchange Act is recorded, Dr. Gerzberg, the non-executive processed, summarised and reported The Board confirms that it has directors are independent within within the time periods specified in reviewed the effectiveness of the those requirements.
the SECs rules and forms and that system of internal controls which such information is accumulated and Nomination of Directors were in place throughout the financial communicated to management, NASDAQ rules require that nominees year and up to the date of signing the including the Chief Executive Officer to a companys board of directors be Financial Statements for the 52 week and Chief Financial Officer, as the selected, or recommended for the period ended 28 December 2012. principal executive and financial boards selection, either by a majority officers, respectively, as appropriate Controls and procedures under the of the companys independent to allow timely decisions regarding Sarbanes-Oxley Act directors or by a nomination required disclosures.
The Group is subject to the provisions committee comprised solely of of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of independent directors.
Based on that evaluation, the Chief 2002.
In particular, Section 404 of the Executive Officer and Chief Financial The Nomination Committee leads the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires a report Officer concluded that the Groups process for Board appointments and of management on the effectiveness disclosure controls and procedures makes recommendations to the of the Groups internal control over were effective as of the end of the Board in relation to new financial reporting.
As part of its period covered by this report.
appointments of executive and noninternal audit process, the Group has executive directors and on a programme for the review of its US listing requirements succession planning, board internal control over financial reporting The Companys American depositary composition and balance.
It is chaired to ensure compliance with the shares are listed on NASDAQ and the by the Chairman of the Board, and its requirements of Section 404 of the Company is therefore subject to the other members are non-executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Companys rules of NASDAQ and US securities directors.
Under NASDAQ rules, the management is responsible for laws and the rules of the SEC Chairman of the Board is not establishing and maintaining applicable to foreign private issuers.
considered independent, therefore adequate internal control over NASDAQ requires US companies the Nomination Committee does not financial reporting and the Companys listed on the exchange to comply with meet the requirements of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief NASDAQs corporate governance NASDAQ rules.
Financial Officer have issued their rules but foreign private issuers, such report attesting to the Groups as the Company, are exempt from Committees compliance with Section 404 of the those rules.
However, pursuant to NASDAQ rules require US companies Sarbanes-Oxley Act as at NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615, the to have a nominations committee, an 28 December 2012.
Managements Company is required to disclose a audit committee and a compensation certification and the independent summary of any material ways in committee, each composed entirely auditors opinion on internal control which the corporate governance of independent directors, with the over financial reporting are reported practices of the Company differ from nominations committee and the audit as required in the Companys SEC those required by NASDAQ for US committee required to have a written filings.
The material differences charter that addresses the are as follows: 62 63 www.
com an Executive Ethics Policy that applies benefits, the basis for determining an Corporate to executive directors, senior officers option holders entitlement to shares Governance Report and other specified employees and is other than provided for in intended to meet the code of ethics accordance with the rules or the continued requirements of Section 406 of the adjustment of rights for option holders US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
in the event of a variation in share capital may not be made to the Quorum advantage of option holders without Under NASDAQ rules, US listed prior approval of the shareholders of companies are required to have a the Company in general meeting, minimum quorum of 33.33% of the except for minor amendments relating shareholders of ordinary shares for to tax and administrative matters.
However, the committees purpose and Amendments to the CSR plc SAYE Companys Articles of Association responsibilities.
Scheme and to the CSR plc Share provide for a quorum for general Option Plan are subject to the prior Both CSRs Nomination and meetings of shareholders of two approval of HM Revenue and Remuneration Committees have shareholders regardless of the level of Customs in the UK in order to retain terms of reference and compositions their aggregate share ownership.
their UK tax approved status.
that comply with the Codes Related party transactions requirements.
Other transactions The NASDAQ rules require US listed  The Nomination Committee is chaired companies to conduct appropriate  by the Chairman of the Board and its reviews of related party transactions  other members are non-executive and potential conflicts of interest via  directors of the Company.
the companys audit committee or  other independent body of the board issuer,  The Remuneration Committee is of directors.
 chaired by a non-executive director  who is considered independent of We are subject to extensive  management and the Board, and provisions under the Listing Rules involvingthesale, issuanceorpotential additional members are three other issued by the FSA in the UK the issuanceof20%ormoreofcommon independent non-executive directors Listing Rules governing .
As together with the Chairman of the transactions with related parties, as , theCompany Board.
Under NASDAQ rules, the defined therein, and the Companies  Chairman of the Board is not Act 2006 also restricts the extent to  considered independent, therefore which companies incorporated in jurisdiction, theUnitedKingdom.
While the Remuneration Committee does England and Wales may enter into  not meet the requirements of the related party transactions.
rules,  The Companys Articles of , which The Audit Committee is composed Association contain provisions : entirely of non-executive directors regarding disclosure of interests by whom the Board has determined to directors and restrictions on their Under the Listing Rules, shareholder be independent and who meet the voting in circumstances involving approval is usually required for an requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the conflicts of interest.
acquisition or disposal by a listed Exchange Act.
company if, generally, the size of the The concept of a related party for the company or business to be acquired We consider that the terms of purposes of NASDAQs listing rules or disposed of represents 25% or reference of these committees, which differs in certain respects from the more of the assets, profits or gross are available on our website definition of a transaction with a capital of the listed company or if the www.
com ir corporaterelated party under the Listing Rules.
consideration to be paid represents  corporateShareholder approval 25% or more of the aggregate market governance are generally responsive Stock option plans value of the listed companys equity to the relevant NASDAQ rules but NASDAQ rules require US listed shares.
Shareholder approval may may not address all aspects of these companies to obtain shareholder also be required for an acquisition or rules.
approval before a stock option or disposal of assets between a listed Code of conduct purchase plan is established or company and parties, including: Under NASDAQ rules US listed materially amended or other equity a directors or shadow directors of companies must adopt a code of compensation arrangement is made the company or its subsidiaries: conduct applicable to all directors, pursuant to which stock may be b any person who is, or was in the officers and employees.
The Group acquired by officers, directors, last 12 months preceding the date of has adopted a Group Ethics policy, employees or consultants of the the transaction, a holder of 10% or which applies to all its employees, company, subject to certain more of the nominal value of any including directors and officers.
The Companys directors class of the companys or any holding out what conduct is expected of or Remuneration Committee may companys or its subsidiarys shares employees as they adhere to our amend the schemes and plans of the having the right to vote in all Business Principles and draws their Company, except that any circumstances at general meetings: attention to the Groups policies.
In amendment relating to the identity of or c any of the associates of persons addition, the Company has adopted option holders, the limitations on their described in a or b. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate governance report No.
of Meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination A J Allner 12 6 4 1 J A J van Beurden 13 A E C G Carlisle 12 6 4 1 1 K Chadha 6 D D W Gardiner 13 L Gerzberg 13 4 S Giacoletto-Roggio 13 3 4 1 C A Ladas 12 R W Mackintosh 13 4 1 2 C Stone 4 1 3 Ms T M Vega 10 3 1 Retired from the Board on 30 June 2012.
2 Appointed to the Board on 16 July 2012, appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 18 December 2012.
3 Appointed to the Audit Committee on 27 April 2012.
4 Stood down from the Audit Committee on 27 April 2012.
In accordance with our Articles of Association we also seek shareholder approval annually for issuing shares and to dis-apply the pre-emption rights that apply under the Companies Act in line with limit guidelines issued by investor bodies.
Attendance at meetings The table above shows the attendance of each of the directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012.
Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22 May 2013, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all registered shareholders.
By Order of the Board Brett Gladden, Company Secretary 20 February 2013 64 65 www.
