Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 At each of our locations we have dedicated community affairs teams that are responsible for working withlocal communities in identifying, implementingand completing Social bespoke projects that make a positive and lasting contribution to economic and social development.
David Capra, GroupHeadofEHSS Afren has continued to Our country level community investments, Whether it be at the corporate or country managed locally, represent a key aspect level Afren addresses local and regional makeconsiderable strategic ofour local content strategy.
We focus local issues, risks and impacts in consultation with community investments at both investments on many of the social and communities, NGOs, industry partners and economic challenges identied through other key stakeholders.
Our objectives the corporate and country level, social impact assessments, executed at the include ensuring local capabilities are in and each serves different needs.
beginning of each project phase.
Across our place to sustain social programmes beyond Our corporate activities focus operations, country-specic investments our initial investment and involvement.
address needs ranging from providing onthree global issues: health, supplies to local orphanages to inoculations employment and education.
against disease and addressing community water needs.
Community investment projects Image: University of Uyo setting up the new lab equipment.
Image: Pangea Mtwapa womens group proudly holding Image: Barda Rash ribbon cutting ceremony at new Community theirgraduation certicates.
Nigeria and other West Africa Afren East Africa Exploration Kurdistan region of Iraq The University of Uyo Project Nigeria : Pangea Network Kenya : Top Student Recognition Awards: As part of a multi-year project, Afren equipped We are in our third year of a business Afren held a ceremony with the mayor, the Chemical and Petroleum Engineering skills and micro-credit scheme which local leaders, government leaders and Afren Departments lab and helped the school provides sixmonths of business training management to recognise the top 34 high re-attain accreditation.
Our goal is to transform to three womens cooperatives in Shimoni school and middle school students in Barda this department into the number one and Mtwapa.
They then receive one Rash.
Our goal is to recognise these students programme for the future oil and gas leaders.
year revolving loans to start or enhance for their achievements and in turn encourage their businesses.
Okoro Jetties Nigeria : Afren constructed three jetties in Ikonta, Regional Host Community Assistance Kenya : Community and Youth Centre: Amadaka and Emeroke within the Eastern Afren awarded scholarships for borehole We provided recreational and IT equipment Obolo communities.
The jetties will open maintenance training, renovated and tothe Barda Rash Community and Youth upthese isolated communities and allow equipped several schools, and provided Centre.
This centre provides an important area them toexpand their businesses.
drought intervention for livestock via a for the local community to congregate, and veterinary assistance organisation.
participate in social and educational classes.
Save the Children WASH Abidjan Cte dIvoire : Save the Children completed a Sanitation and Rehabilitation initiative at five schools inAbidjan, fully funded by Afren.
Together, we helped provide a child-friendly and safe environment for children to learn.
