Afren plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility The Afren approach to Corporate responsibility We are increasingly adopting To further demonstrate our commitment and Clearly the IPIECA guidance is generic in nature to set visible benchmarks for our stakeholders, and we have therefore evaluated all of the targets and metrics to measure we intend to expand our reporting on these sustainability issues identied by the IPIECA our performance, providing our issues using the Guidelines on Sustainability guidance on their materiality to Afren how Reporting developed by the International pertinent to our current operations is the issue stakeholders with a consistent Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation and how much could it impact the business and transparent overview Association IPIECA as the framework.
These if it were mismanaged and have ranked ofour Corporate responsibility guidelines offer comprehensive analysis and them accordingly.
This will set our priorities for advice on current best practice on sustainability agreeing the strategy to deal with each issue, performance.
Our key focus reporting that will complement the approach for developing appropriate management iscontinuous improvement, to reporting that we have adopted to date.
systems and for measuring and reporting on It will allow us to develop our corporate performance.
These priorities may change as which means learning from reporting in subsequent years by providing the business develops and as we receive both our successes and detailed principles and performance indicators feedback from our stakeholders and we will such that we can demonstrate our strong therefore review materiality on a regular basis.
challenges, and using these Environmental, Health and Safety and Social insights to enhance our For those issues identied as having a high EHSS performance.
Figure 1 below illustrates materiality we have either already developed futureperformance.
how we intend to build our reporting around strategies and have controls in place and the five main branches of our Corporate arereporting on performance, or we are responsibility policy covering the environment, developing more detailed strategies within our Health and Safety, social and community, existing systems to focus on specic aspects.
Human Resources and business ethics.
Once we have established and agreed a strategy we will then implement additional Figure 1.
Framework for Corporate responsibility and sustainability reporting management controls if required, set targets and measure appropriate performance metrics.
Greenhouse gas emissions Workforce participation This will then demonstrate the effectiveness Energy use Workforce health of both the strategy and the controls.
By Alternative energy sources Occupational injury and illness incidents monitoring our performance in this way we Flared gas Product stewardship will also get valuable feedback which we can Biodiversity and ecosystem services Process safety use to continuously improve our policies, Fresh water processes and procedures.
Other air emissions Spills to the environment The final piece of the puzzle is the role of Discharges to water stakeholder engagement.
We currently hold Waste dialogue with all of our major stakeholders as well as listening to the smaller or minority Health opinions.
We hope to encourage this process Environment andSafety still further through clear and objective Local community impacts reporting of the key issues.
The overall and engagements process is illustrated in Figure 2.
Indigenous peoples Business Involuntary resettlement Social In reporting on our 2012 performance Preventing corruption ethics Social investment the starting point is the objectives we set Preventing corruption Local content practices ourselves at the end of 2011.
These objectives involving business partners Human Local hiring practices encompassed consolidating our EHSS Transparency of payments Resources Local procurement and to host governments management systems, extending the supplier development Public advocacy and programme to include our operations in the Human rights due diligence lobbying Kurdistan region of Iraq, and achieving basic Human rights and suppliers EHSS targets of zero lost time incidents, Security and human rights zero fatalities, and zero oil spills.
We have Workforce diversity and inclusion had mixed success in meeting these objectives Workforce engagement and this will be described in detail in the Workforce training and development following pages.
Non-retaliation and grievance system Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Impact on operations Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Strategic priorities Pursue materially accretive acquisitions 1 We remain committed to running our 2 Organic reserves growth business in a safe and responsible manner.
Production growth 3 Operational ef ciency and financial discipline 4 Shahid Ullah, Corporate responsibility 5 ChiefOperating officer P20 Figure 2.
Process for developing and implementing sustainability strategies Afren materiality index Policy IPIECA Commitments Sustainability issues Process and procedures Strategies Implementation 2012 Performance Monitoring and reporting Relevance to operations 2013 Targets Stakeholder engagement and feedback Framework for 2013 EHSS Targets Issue 2013 targets Issue 2013 targets Sustainability issues Management system issues Greenhouse gas Record and report all fuel use and other sources Asset integrity Establish a gate process for design of new facilities.
Safe systems Conduct EHSS and security risk assessments ahead ofwork ofallprojects.
Energy use Record and report total energy use in GWh.
EHSS culture Establish EHSS Security Network meetings.
Flared gas Record and report the quantities of ared gas.
Crisis management Roll out the new incident notication system to all business Biodiversity Conduct EIAs ahead of all 2013 activities.
Spills to the Record and report number and volume of spills 1 bbl.
Revise and issue the corporate Crisis Management Plan.
environment 2013 target less than five spills.
Provide training and exercising on the Crisis Management Plan.
Review the corporate Incident Reporting and Investigation Discharges to water Record and report the ppm and total tonnage of oil in procedure.
Contractor Incorporate contractor EHSS Security requirements into Record and report tonnages of cuttings and muds discharged.
Waste Record and report tonnages of hazardous and nonEnvironment Roll out corporate Environmental Management procedure.
Establish programme of corporate environmental audits.
Record and report tonnages of wastes that are recycled.
Security Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for Local community Conduct SIAs ahead of all 2013 activities.
impact Establish a system for quality assurance of security measures.
Social investment Record and report social investment spend US$ value.
Conduct security reviews for all new facility designs.
Evaluate effectiveness of investment projects over US$150k.
Audits Complete proposed 2013 audit exercise inspection schedule.
Preventing Provide company-wide refresher training on Code of corruption BusinessConduct.
Monitor compliance with the gifts register on a quarterly basis.
Record, investigate and report all cases of whistle-blowing.
Include reference to Afrens Code of Business Conduct in allcontracts.
Occupational injury Target 2013 LTIF 0.43 and TRIR 1.76.
Record, investigate and report all motor vehicle accidents.
Process safety Record, investigate and report all breaches of process integrity.
Implement a corporate Operations Integrity Maintenance System OIMS.
Afren plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility TheAfren approach toCorporate responsibility Continued Case study During 2012 we conducted a significant We recognised at the outset the importance number of activities in Barda Rash including of strong community relations for our Afrens EHSS programmes in the 2 completing a 350 km 3D seismic survey, successful operations at Barda Rash and Kurdistan region of Iraq carrying out workover operations on the wehave therefore established a network three existing wells and commencing the forconsultation and engagement with our construction of early production facilities.
Inall, 616,524 man hours were worked We have a dedicated Community Liaison inthese operations with no lost time injuries.
officer who is from the community and We consider this to be a major achievement we hold regular meetings with all levels as we have employed and trained large of the population.
Our community numbers of local workers as part of our investment programme for the Kurdistan wider commitment to local capacity building.
region of Iraq is already well-established One of the significant EHSS risks Barda Rash with projects including: has in common with many other elds Education hall refurbishment: Afren Afrens commitment to high standards of inthearea is the potential for toxic gases renovated, furnished and equipped one EHSS performance operates from the first intheform of hydrogen sulphide or, once ofthe two main halls used by the local moment that a business opportunity is this is burnt, sulphur dioxide.
We have community and students.
In the case of our assets in established a comprehensive monitoring and theKurdistan region of Iraq, the EHSS risks alarm system surrounding our operations to Crop compensation: Afren provided were evaluated alongside the technical detect even the smallest concentrations of compensation payments to 24 villages for andcommercial risks and the assets were these gases to protect the local population.
any adverse effects resulting from seismic subject to a detailed due diligence visit Wehave worked closely with the local work performed in the area.
Afren is one prior tocompletion of the transaction.
authorities to explain to the community of the only foreign oil companies to do therisks and the actions to take if odours this for the surrounding communities and As soon as Afren took over as operator are detected and we have a dedicated it has been widely acknowledged.
ofthe Barda Rash eld we began the telephone number that can be called if implementation of a comprehensive EHSS thereare any concerns.
Environmental management system consistent with our responsibility is a guiding principle to our corporate standard and analogous to the operating philosophy: with the construction systems we have successfully established of a sour gas treating facility we will aim to inour other operations.
Supporting the minimise any potential hydrogen sulphide implementation of the system we have and sulphur dioxide exposure to our recruited a dedicated team of EHSS surrounding communities.
professionals who work closely with our own management as well as our key contractors to reinforce our performance standards by providing training and advice as well as conducting audits and inspections.
Review and consolidation of EHSS management systems Afrens EHSS policies and procedures have been in place for several years and have remained largely unchanged during this time.
As the Group has grown and as we have gained experience and feedback from audits we have recognised the need to update and re-vitalise the management system.
Towards the end of 2012 we embarked on a programme of reviewing and revising the key components of our management system and this will be continued during the course of 2013.
Once we have reviewed and updated our procedures we will roll these out through the organisation to ensure that all key personnel are aware of the changes and that they are incorporated into the local management systems in each of our operations.
We will be starting with the high-level policy documents and ensuring that these reference the key sustainability issues identied in the IPIECA guidelines on Sustainability Reporting.
