Afren plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility The specic requirements for ensuring that our operations are ethical are embedded in our Code of Business Conduct and the culture of the organisation.
Given the jurisdictions in which we Business operate, we continue to be vigilant and work seamlessly with our stakeholders to ensure that our policies, procedures, systems and controls address the ever-changing challenges that we face.
ethics Shirin Johri,  Secretary Compliance with a strong All new starters attended training in relation We have investigated all cases that have tothe Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy been raised through the whistle-blowing codeof business ethics is andthe Gifts, Entertainment, Hospitality and hotline, which is operated by Safecall, an critically important for an Charitable Donations register and signed independent, offsite agent.
During 2012 acompliance register indicating their there was a single instance of whistleoiland gas company with commitment to adhere to the values-based blowing recorded, which was investigated operations in Africa and the approach that governs our business decisions.
and resolved by the Group General Counsel Middle East.
Everyone in We also provided all new employees with the and Company Secretary and the Senior Code of Business Conduct as part of their Independent Director.
Afren, including our partners, induction process which they were required to During the course of 2013 we intend to contractors and suppliers, read and confirm that they understood itand update the Code of Business Conduct agreed to abide by its requirements.
Allnew hasan obligation to uphold toalign the Afren Group with new external contracts with suppliers and contractors have requirements and revise its contents in and maintain high ethical also been amended to include Anti-Bribery thelight of our experiences to date.
Upon and Corruption provisions and the Code of standards.
This is fundamental completion, we will widen the current Business Conduct has also beenappended to the way we operate.
compliance training programme to cover tothese contracts.
allaspects of the Code, over and above the During the course of 2012 we continued to An Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review provisions on anti-bribery and corruption.
implement the requirements of the corporate Committee the Compliance Committee Refresher sessions will be held to assist Code of Business Conduct.
The Anti-Bribery wasset up to conduct quarterly reviews employees in applying the code requirements and Corruption policy and procedures were ofthe entries in the Gifts, Entertainment, and its principles to their work and everyday reviewed and refreshed to provide further Hospitality and Charitable Donations register business practices.
guidance and maintain compliance with and tomonitor compliance with the theUK Bribery Act and the Ministry of CodeofBusiness Conduct.
The Compliance Justice Guidelines on Adequate Procedures.
Committee conducted sample testing by matching entries in the Gifts, Entertainment, Hospitality and Charitable Donations register with expense reports and entries in the relevant asset accounts.
Results of the quarterly reviews and regular updates are provided by the head of the Compliance Committee to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Afrens Core Values A passion for our host countries Trust through open communication We believe in creating sustainable We recognise that our success is dependent The Afren Code of Business long-term value not only for our on fostering relationships built on trust Conduct articulates and formalises stakeholders but also within the and respect between our employees, Afrens commitment to high countriesin which weoperate.
ethicalstandards and our core Performance driven by self-belief Commitment to continuous development corporate values.
Our values We believe that our shared abilities are a We believe that if we are to succeed resource that can enable us to succeed in andpromote sustainable growth and represent our key priorities and a challenging and dynamic environment.
development, it will mean learning from drive the intent and direction of our past experiences, not denying them Unconventional and innovative our strategic planning.
These core and not ignoring them.
At Afren we are encouraged to take up values underpin the Afren new challenges and pursue innovative cultureand consist of: ideas.
We thrive on being progressive in all areas of our operations and reward dynamism at any level in the organisation.
P6 6 For more information on governance
