Afren plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Health and Safety Our Health and Safety This incident had major ramications for the Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR organisation and resulted in the immediate and LostTime Injury Frequency LTIF performance came in below cessation of the 2D seismic project whilst expectations in 2012 as we the causes of the accident were investigated and steps were taken to reinforce road recorded our first fatality in safety in this difficult driving environment.
This arose from Following a full and thorough investigation a road trafc accident involving into the incident, we have further 0.31 LTIF strengthened measures in place to ensure one of our seismic contractors.
that the required standards of driver training We deeply regret the loss of and vehicle safety are met across all of our operations.
this life and are very saddened Our Lost Time Injury Frequency rate LTIF by the effect this tragedy has rose slightly during 2012 when compared to had on the family involved.
The Total Recordable Incident Rate for 2012 of 1.47 showed an improvement over the 2011 gure of 1.96 see adjacent graphs.
These results reect in part the wide range of operations in which Afren was involved during the course of 2012 and in particular the significant increase in exploration activity in East Africa.
Working with contractors to reduce the numbers of injuries sustained in Afrens operations will continue to be a focus of the safety programme during 2013.
Cte dIvoire safety award A highlight of the year was the achievement of the British Safety Council BSC Sword ofHonour for the operations in Cte dIvoire.
This represents the culmination of several years work to establish a robust safety management system in the CtedIvoire operations following the acquisition of the assets, and the award of Five Stars in the BSCHealth and Safety audit at the end of 2011.
Afren is continuing with the BSC Five Star Audit system for operations in both CtedIvoire and Nigeria and will commence auditing in Kurdistan during the course of2013.
Image: Routine site inspection at the Lion Gas Plant.
