Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 29 Corporate Responsibility Dairy Crest is a responsible business and we align commercial and corporate responsibility strategies for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Our future success depends on our ability to meet a range of pressing environmental and social needs that is why Corporate Responsibility is so important to us.
More information can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Online Report.
WE CARE We act responsibly with a passion to do the right thing Business review L O G t D L O G 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Business review | Corporate Responsibility continued We were delighted to be the highest new entry in this years Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index, achieving a Gold Award 94%.
Taking part in the Index has been 94% hugely beneficial to us as it has let us take stock of the vast array of Business in the environmental, marketplace, workplace and community activities we are engaged in, and helped us formalise our corporate responsibility Communitys strategy in the form of 40 public pledges these pledges are Corporate published in our Corporate Responsibility Online Report.
Responsibility We were also delighted to be included in the prestigious Corporate Knights Global 100 List of the worlds most sustainable Index businesses.
When fully integrated into a business, corporate responsibility sparks creative, innovative ideas and it helps achieve a better understanding of the needs of our consumers.
As highlighted below, and in our online report, over the course of the last year we have made good progress towards this.
Environment Climate change As the UKs leading dairy manufacturer and processor we play an active role in tackling climate change, reducing waste and looking after the natural environment.
Carbon dioxide emissions contribute to climate change and we are determined to lead the agenda by reducing our energy consumption and dependency on fossil fuel.
Following on from the work we did to measure our carbon emissions in 2002, in 2007 we created an official partnership with the Carbon Trust and formed our Internal Carbon Management Group.
We set ourselves the target of reducing our carbon emissions by 30% against 2007 levels by 2020.
We are pleased to report that thanks to the work done across the business and the impact of the two biomass boilers officially opened by HRH Prince Charles in Davidstow we reduced our emissions in 2011 12 by over 12% in just 12 months.
We recognise that we cannot address climate per litre of milk was 18% below the average As well as reducing emissions from our change in isolation and in order to play for Western Europe.
sites we have continued to invest in our our full part in helping to tackle this issue transport fleet, knowing that a modern fleet we need to work in collaboration with our can take advantage of modern, greener suppliers, in particular our farming suppliers technology.
Examples of investments made to help them reduce their carbon footprint.
include acquiring 33 new milk tankers our To help achieve this, we created a fleet is 150 strong, which are fitted with unique on-farm carbon measurement more efficient milk pumps and Isotrak tool with DCD, which has been endorsed 12 % telematics systems and acquiring 60 new by the Carbon Trust.
Results from a pilot vehicles with Euro 5 standard engines which programme, in which over 100 Dairy Crest reduction in CO 2 have enabled us to reduce our nitrogen farmer suppliers participated, showed that oxide levels.
the average carbon emissions equivalent emissions t D L O G t D Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 31 We are pleased to report that in 2011 12, Reducing waste across our manufacturing sites, we achieved Natural resources an 88% landfill avoidance of our solid waste We aim to reduce the waste We are committed to ensuring we are on course to achieve that arises throughout our reducing the amount of water our target of zero waste to landfill by 2015. supply chain, from the point used in our manufacturing This progress has been achieved largely due to the combined efforts of our staff and at which goods enter our processes by 20% by 2015 our waste broker, 707, both of whom have doors right through to the against 2007 levels.
point when our products are We are always looking for new and more consumed.
Where waste is environmentally friendly ways of packaging our products and over the course of the Over the course of 2011 12 we have unavoidable we look for ways year we reduced the amount of plastic used continued to focus on the amount of water of diverting it from landfill by to make our spreads tubs, we developed we use at our manufacturing sites with the reusing or recycling it.
We a new two and four pint plastic milk bottle net result that we have reduced water usage also consider the materials that uses about 15% less plastic than its by 14% since 2007 and are on course to current equivalent, we continued to promote achieve our target of reducing water usage used in our packaging and milk bag and JUGIT and all of our standard by 20% by 2015. aim to minimise their plastic milk bottles now are made with at With an increasing focus on reducing environmental impact during least 15% recycled plastic our target is to the amount of water used in farming we are use 50% by 2020.
Finally our cream is now helping dairy farmers measure and reduce use and disposal.
packed in polypropylene pots which means the amount of water they use through they are easier to recycle.
WaterWell, an innovative water-auditing As the first dairy company to sign up to programme.
Initial results of this programme WRAPs Courtauld Commitment we remain will be gathered later this year.
fully committed to its second phase Love We recognise the most positive impact Food, Hate Waste.
we can have on improving biodiversity is by supporting farmers in their quest to protect and improve the natural environment.
To 15 % ensure we do this to the best of our ability, recycled plastic used in we have helped farmers put in place on-farm environmental initiatives including all our standard plastic incentivising some farmers to keep part of milk bottles their land fallow for wildlife.
Marketplace As well as investing in creating lighter After listening to consumers, in particular Healthier products variants of our core brands we have also parents of young children, who told us that reformulated Utterly Butterly in order to the kids cheese market was too dominated We are committed to reduce levels of saturated fat: created by what are perceived as unnatural, creating healthy, tasty, Davidstow Lighter cheddar: and, in processed cheeses, in 2011 we launched enjoyable products, making partnership with WeightWatchers, created Chedds a brand new cheddar snack for a low fat double cream, a low fat crme children made from 100% real mild cheddar it easier for consumers to frache and a low fat custard.
Significantly each pack of Chedds choose healthier foods and have continued to add healthy variants to provides a child aged between 7 and 10 with to play our part in helping to our St Hubert range of spreads including about a quarter of their daily calcium needs.
St Hubert 5 Crales, a spread that contains Added together, our lighter food brands, seeds and grains.
St Hubert Omga 3 the reformulation of our products, and 1% remains the biggest selling health spread milk have removed a total of 12,600 tonnes In response to concerns over the increasing in France.
of saturated fat from consumer diets since level of obesity in the UK we developed In 2011 we underlined our commitment their introduction.
great-tasting lighter variants of our key brands to healthier food products through the In 2012 we became the first major including Country Life Spreadable Lighter, acquisition of MH Foods, the manufacturer UK dairy manufacturer and processor Cathedral City Lighter and Clover Lighter of FryLight and SaladLight.
to sign up to the Department of Healths and we have championed 1% milk through Responsibility Deal.
our doorstep delivery service and national retailers.
The results continue to be positive with Clover Lighter and Country Life Lighter growing by 27% and 32% respectively and Cathedral City Mature Lighter cheddar 1 2,600 tonnes remaining by far the top selling lower fat cheddar cheese.
Sales of 1% milk have also remained at over 19 million litres.
of saturated fat saved from consumer diets Business review 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Business review | Corporate Responsibility continued As a champion of the British dairy industry legislation, animal welfare and wildlife Working with farmers and suppliers we are pleased to report that every drop support.
of the 2.1 billion litres of milk we purchased We also work collaboratively with other We are dedicated to working in 2011 12 was from British farms and that suppliers and in 2011 we introduced an with dairy farmers and other 79% of it came from over 1,300 farmers ethical supply policy.
The policy is designed suppliers and will proactively who have a direct supply contract with us.
to extend our vision and values across a We offer our supplying farmers a fair and diverse and extensive supplier base, whilst work with them to exceed competitive milk price, help them focus on recognising that those who supply our best practice.
efficiency and best practice throughout business with much needed goods and the milk supply chain and provide advice services operate in a variety of different and support services on issues such as cultural environments.
Workplace Our safety at work objective is very simple: can spend longer focusing on issues that Workplace we want everyone who works for us, and are more relevant to Dairy Crest.
with us, to go home to his or her family at Over the course of the year we also We are committed to the end of their working day without any launched a manual handling campaign ensuring the safety of all of injury or occupational ill health.
To achieve and completed a safe footwear pilot to our employees, franchisees, this objective we have in place a number reduce slips amongst our staff in our Dairies of initiatives that focus on areas which are business.
contractors and other people of particular relevance to our business, Whilst any accident in the workplace affected by our activities.
examples being safe behaviours and is unacceptable, our safety awareness employee engagement.
programme STAR Stop, Think, Assess, Our commitment to reduce accidents Review and the safety days held across has continued apace and since introducing our network of depots, have helped us our NVQ Carrying and Delivering Goods reduce accidents in the year.
programme in our Dairies Division last year, A healthy workforce is vital to the future over 2,000 staff have completed the course.
In order to achieve 2,000 This practical programme has helped staff our aims we have put in place a number of further to improve their driving skills and to health awareness programmes including staff have completed avoid injuries and accidents.
free health MOTs for all Dairy Crest staff.
As Driving on public roads is undoubtedly part of our partnership with the British Heart the NVQ Carrying the most hazardous aspect of many of Foundation, their team will be supporting and Delivering Goods our staffs jobs.
We are pleased that CPC our occupational health team in developing training for our LGV drivers continues to be a proactive wellbeing programme including programme delivered in-house for all Divisions by our providing staff with advice and healthy living internal IDAS team.
By having an accredited literature.
training centre we can be more flexible when Further information about our employees it comes to delivering the training and we is on pages 8 and 9.
Community With 16 factories and offices and over 100 Dairy Crest has Community depots across England and Wales, we know that the actions we take often have We are committed to looking a significant influence on the communities after the communities where where we are based.
As the main employer we work.
in many areas, we believe we have a 16 unique opportunity to play a positive role in supporting projects at a local and national factories and ofces level.
and over To ensure the work we do in our local communities adds real value to society we focus on supporting issues and projects that: t. BLF CFTU VTF PG PVS FYQFSUJTF BOE 10 0 knowledge t 1SPWJEF B MFHBDZ depots across England t 'JU XJUI PVS WJTJPO BOE CVTJOFTT TUSBUFHZ and Wales Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 33 We aim to use our community programme Promoting healthy living IGDs Communities Industry Working Group to inspire staff, provide them with useful In tandem with our strategy of increasing and we will be playing a key role in the experience and promote team building.
sales of healthier variants of our products, industry bodys Skills for Work Week taking With this is mind, our community our aim is to use our community programme place in September 2012. strategy is divided into four strands: to encourage staff and consumers to live Since 2009 we have supported the healthier lifestyles.
Utterly Butterly Ukulele Orchestra musical To achieve this, in 2011 we went into project that gives children the opportunity 1.
Looking after the countryside partnership with the British Heart Foundation, of learning a musical instrument, in this and broader environment the UKs leading heart charity, which aims to case a ukulele made out of an empty prevent premature death from heart disease.
Utterly Butterly tub, fishing wire and wood.
The aim of the partnership is to: Importantly the project is aligned to the 2.
Promoting healthy living t 1SPNPUF BXBSFOFTT PG UIF #SJUJTI FBSU national school curriculum.
Since the Foundations activities to our approximately projects launch, almost 10,000 ukuleles 3.
Supporting education and 1 million doorstep customers and raise have been made.
employability money for the charity t. BLF VTF PG UIF #SJUJTI FBSU 'PVOEBUJPO T Engaging with local communities resources and experience to support our Our local community programme makes 4.
Engaging with local staff wellbeing campaign including our up the fourth strand of our community communities occupational health teams working with programme and in keeping with the overall their nurses.
strategy it focuses on: Looking after the countryside and tPDBM HPPE DBVTFT UIBU NBLF B QPTJUJWF broader environment Supporting education and direct contribution to the communities We buy about one sixth of the milk and employability where our workplaces are based produced in Britain each year and we know The current economic climate has had t PPE DBVTFT UIBU JNQSPWF IFBMUI that a healthy, vibrant countryside is as vital a disproportionately negative impact on education, the environment or the to rural communities and dairy farmers as young people, with youth unemployment countryside.
it is to our future success.
As an added over double the national average.
To make incentive, we estimate that people living in sure we are able to play our part in helping Local community committees at each of rural regions account for about 19% of our this next generation onto the career ladder, our places of work run our community consumer base.
we have set up a number of education programmes.
Each committee has To ensure we play our full part in programmes catering for GCSE, A-Level, responsibility for its own budget and for the maintaining sustainable rural communities, undergraduate and postgraduate students decisions it makes.
As well as providing weve made looking after the countryside and, in September, we will be launching financial support we also give all staff across and broader environment a key strand an engineering apprenticeship programme the business the opportunity of taking one of our community programme and we to add to our award winning dairy day off a year to volunteer for a good cause principally do this through our involvement technologist course.
Over the course of 2011 12 with the Princes Rural Action Programme, Significantly we formalised our our staff have supported about 100 local the Countryside Fund and charity commitment to helping the employability good causes through volunteering their partnerships like Pub is the Hub.
of young people by signing the IGDs work time, product donations or a direct employability pledge in April 2011 and in financial donation.
2012 we became a founding member of the Business review
