8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Our people WE RESPECT We value our people and are stronger together Our aim is for all of our staff to have the opportunity to reach their full potential.
We want Dairy Crest to be a leading light when it comes to supporting diversity in the workplace and for our staff to be fully aware of, engaged by and supportive of our business strategy.
Helping staff reach their potential Attracting and retaining talent Living it!
We are pleased to report that the e-learning portal we launched In 2011 we launched an employer brand Living it!
with the aim last year to help us widen learning opportunities across our of attracting and retaining the best people.
The programme whole workforce continues to grow in popularity and to date highlights why Dairy Crest is a great place to work.
Since over 1,700 employees have accessed the site.
The site contains launching Living it!
we have also formally integrated our Vision over 100 online courses that can be accessed at any time by and Values into our interview process to make sure we only employees at work or at home a real advantage for a business recruit people who fit with our culture and are happy and willing that operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Diversity We are committed to providing an inclusive working environment where everyone feels valued and respected.
We recognise that people from different backgrounds, experiences and abilities 1, 700 can bring fresh ideas and innovations to improve our working practices and business, delivering commercial benefit and employees have accessed the new ultimately shareholder value.
Diversity is especially important for a business that makes everyday consumer goods bought and e-learning portal consumed by a diverse group of people.
During the year we successfully piloted a focused training and We believe that for people to be at their best they need to development programme for our front line managers to help achieve an appropriate work-life balance and any employee UIFN EP UIFJS KPC CFUUFS BOE XF XJMM CF SPMMJOH UIJT PVU BDSPTT UIF regardless of their hierarchical position, location, role or length of business from 2012.
Operation managers in Customer Direct service should feel that they are treated flexibly in their ways of have implemented an online tool which helps them identify their working.
strengths and areas for development.
Our aim is to have a workforce that reflects the communities We have also enhanced our talent programme to help us where we operate.
Employees will be encouraged to reach better identify employees who have the potential to do bigger their full potential regardless of their age, gender, marital status PS EJGGFSFOU KPCT 5P EBUF PWFS QFPQMF IBWF QBSUJDJQBUFE JO including civil partnerships, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic the programme called My Career and we have increased the origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
Dairy Crest number of senior managers who have taken on mentoring roles does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on any of these to support them.
As well as developing our leaders of tomorrow we recognise the importance of continuing to develop our leaders of today.
To help us achieve our aims we introduced or enhanced several After a detailed analysis of the needs of managers, our of our polices during the year, including: management programme now includes a 360-degree feedback t OUSPEVDJOH KPC TIBSJOH GMFYJCMF XPSLJOH IPVST BOE QIBTFE process so managers can get feedback from their subordinates, retirement working patterns policies peers and managers.
The programme also provides them with t &OIBODJOH PVS NBUFSOJUZ QBUFSOJUZ BOE BEPQUJPO QPMJDJFT a skills gaps analysis which helps them better identify their t OUSPEVDJOH WPMVOUFFSJOH TBCCBUJDBM BOE TFDPOENFOU strengths and areas for improvement.
policies Since December 2010 senior managers across the business have continued to benefit from our membership of the Swiss The results of these actions have been very positive.
In 2011 12 IMD business schools learning resources portal.
The portal 95% of women returned from maternity leave up from 70% gives access to a range of relevant podcasts, articles, videos in 2009 and the number of staff applying for flexible working and helps them access global best business practice.
hours reached record levels 80% of requests were approved.
Our flexible working practices policy was taken up by male and Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 9 female employees and by staff working in our factories and is the case we are committed to doing everything we can to offices.
A recent example included a father of two who wanted to support employees including providing access to professional change his hours so he could drop his children off at school.
outplacement services designed to ease their transition into a OFX KPC 8IFSF BQQSPQSJBUF XF BMTP NBLF GSFF JOEFQFOEFOU In addition we have also: financial advice available.
t 8PSLFE BMPOHTJEF UIF PCDFOUSF 1MVT BOE MPDBM EJTBCJMJUZ employment advisers at our site in Frome in connection with the Two Ticks symbol the symbol officially recognises us a being an employer that has made a commitment to employ, keep and develop the abilities of disabled staff 88% t NQMFNFOUFE EJWFSTJUZ USBJOJOH GPS BMM PG PVS NBOBHFST t OUSPEVDFE B UISFF TUBHF QSF SFUJSFNFOU QSPHSBNNF respondents to the employee JODMVEJOH GBDF UP GBDF XPSLTIPQT BOE F MFBSOJOH QBDLBHFT survey well above the UK average of 79% Communications 95% 8F BSF DPNNJUUFE UP FOTVSJOH PVS TUBGG BSF UIF GJSTU UP LOPX what is happening across our business.
women returned to work from To achieve this we have in place tailored staff briefings that regularly take place at each of our places of work, we publish a maternity leave up from 70% in staff magazine and our staff intranet is available to all staff both 2009 at work including through free internet cafes in our factories and at home through their private internet connections.
Listening to staff In 2011 we held strategy road shows at every location in Since launching our employee survey in 2007 we have the business over 120 in total took place, which all staff were conducted three further surveys to get the views of our staff required to attend.
To ensure we engaged every employee the on a range of areas including: strategy and leadership: values road shows took place during day and night shifts and senior and corporate responsibility: customers and quality: learning, directors and managers led them.
Each month Mark Allen, our development and teamwork: wellbeing and recognition: and Chief Executive, visits one of our manufacturing sites and hosts workplace environment.
All staff are able to email Mark via a 8F BSF QMFBTFE UP SFQPSU UIBU PVS TVSWFZ SFTVMUFE JO B specially set up email address.
response rate of 88%, well above the UK average of 79% and there was an overall improvement in staff engagement compared Reward & recognition to 2010 engagement rising by 2%.
Following a detailed review Our reward and recognition scheme, whereby all staff can of the results, we have engaged with our workforce and have nominate a colleague for a financial award for a job well done, developed local action plans, which will be put in place.
continues to prove popular with staff.
In 2011 12 almost 1,000 During their careers with Dairy Crest our employees may members of staff were successfully nominated for a recognition OFFE IFMQ XJUI OPO XPSL SFMBUFE NBUUFST 8F SFDPHOJTF UIJT BOE award.
provide access to a confidential telephone counselling and legal Membership of our sharesave scheme has also continued information service that operates 24 hours a day.
to grow and by the end of the financial year 35% of staff were At times companies have to make tough decisions including members of the scheme.
Almost 43% of staff are members of SFEVOEBODJFT BOE %BJSZ $SFTU JT OP FYDFQUJPO UP UIJT 8IFO UIJT our stakeholder pension scheme.
