SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility As a specialist electrical retailer Kesa is well placed to Communities manage an effective approach to corporate responsibility CR Working for our customers and local communities, contributing that is compatible with profitable growth and enhances brand tocommunity activities in the areas we serve, and supporting and equity.
It has long been our belief that good CR practice makes encouraging staff fundraising for appropriate charitable organisations.
However, as a pan-European Group operating in nine countries, a one size ts all approach is Environment not appropriate because of the different sizes and maturities As an electrical retailer we have a relatively low direct environmental of our businesses.
impact, but we still seek to minimise the environmental impact of all our operations throughout the Group.
We also want to ensure that neither Therefore the majority of our activities arelocally driven, reecting our products nor our operations adversely affect the health of our customer demands and market sensitivities.
However, there is a customers, our employees or the community at large.
CRteam comprising senior managers from each of the businesses.
Chaired by the Company Secretary, the team meets regularly to share As one of the European market leaders in large white goods, we best practices and develop practical performance measures that can specialise in offering our customers specic advice on the energy be adopted across the Group.
This enables them to make informed buying decisions in terms of power and water consumption.
We also offer Our initiatives fall into four key areas: practical advice in-store and on the web, on how to use the products in the most efficient way and we help dispose of them at end of life.
Environment Improving the Groups use of energy, the impact of our transport This programme is tailored to each of our markets and is currently in eet and our use of bulk materials such as paper and packaging, its most advanced stages of implementation at Darty in France and has by minimising waste, increasing energy efficiency and reducing been, in part, adopted across all of the Group.
We were one of the first ourconsumption of materials.
retailers to test the energy efficiency of all televisions, DVD players and computers that we sell and then promote the better performing Supply chain products.
Darty France devotes two pages in its monthly magazine Improving labour, environmental and social practices in the Groups Darty et Vous, to environmental matters and has a dedicated section supply chain as well as ensuring that our suppliers and business on its website, www.
partners are made aware of our requirements and take all reasonable steps to ensure they are met.
A major Group strength, with our significant home delivery network, isour ability to facilitate the recycling of large white goods, helped People byour efficient reverse logistics capability.
The ongoing rapid Providing a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment development ofnew technology creates increasing high levels of and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff: and hazardous electronic and electrical waste which is the background offering them a safe and healthy place of work we aim to be forthe WEEE Directive.
Its aim is to minimise the impact of electrical recognised as a good employer seeking to reward people fairly and and electronic equipment on the environment when those products to provide equality of opportunity, personal development and training.
In order to sell products within the EU 22 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with the regulations.
the beginning right through to the end of the supply chain.
Many of our electrical products are sourced through the major international brands This means that electrical retailers must offer take back facilities tocover all categories including smaller appliances such as kettles who have their own strong ethical and environmental policies in place.
We do not have significant operations or retail outlets in countries that present a material risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour standards Darty France offers to take away two items for recycling free of charge or restrict civil or political rights.
However, some of our suppliers do.
if it makes a home delivery for large white goods.
The collected items are sorted in 72 collection sites where they are dismantled.
Between We are determined that the respect for human rights in our own May and December 2011, Darty France collected 40,415 tonnes of operations should be matched by the companies and organisations product for recycling, the equivalent of over 1.3 million appliances.
All with whom we do business.
Whether we are dealing with major brands the stores in Darty France have dedicated recycling bins with separate or sourcing from elsewhere we ensure that our products have been compartments for mobile phones, small appliances, batteries and ink tested for safety, health and environmental issues and the workplaces cartridges.
In 2011, Darty France collected 20 tonnes of batteries.
conform to recognised international standards.
At the same time our policy is to work in partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce Vanden Borre in Belgium recycles 55 per cent of the product it collects their impact on the environment and to manage the challenges of when making a home delivery.
Datart, in the Czech Republic and sustainable growth.
The Group sources its own label products Slovakia, collected over 1,200 tonnes of product for recycling in the principally from factories based in China that are committed to past year.
improving workers welfare and reducing environmental impact.
We believe that together this makes us one of the leading recyclers We have audit procedures which we have benchmarked against ofMDA products in Europe, and is something that sets us apart from leading international test houses which are designed to ensure proper many pure web players in particular.
environmental standards are adhered to by our own label suppliers in our factories and additionally to monitor the quality of our products.
We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and ensure that it can be recycled.
We collect all waste packaging when delivering We have an experienced quality team based in China which carries a household appliance unless the customer requests otherwise.
out regular factory audits to ensure that they meet the strict social, At Darty France, BCC and Vanden Borre we have specialised environmental and supply chain standards we require, and the audit equipment that compresses all polystyrene packaging collected from cycle has been improved from triennial to biennial.
In 2011, we customers homes for recycling or re-use as garden furniture.
At most undertook over 250 factory audits.
In addition, the team also carries of our operating companies, packaging waste is also collected from out random inspections of goods before shipments are made to ensure the warehouses and after-sales service centres annually we recycle that quality standards are being maintained.
Products which have been over 40,000 tonnes of packaging waste.
listed for more than 18 months are fully re-evaluated, and all new OEM products have full CE certication from accredited European laboratories.
Supply chain Our customers expect us to have procedures in place to ensure that In addition, as a further environmental measure we are consciously trying the products we sell have been ethically produced and handled from to minimise the emissions from our transport operations.
We continue Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 23 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Corpora Corporate responsibility te responsibility to modify our logistics operation to achieve a more efficient use of the organisation.
We also have many other forums for discussion which transport eet and many of our operating companies make use of allow management to take a wide range of viewpoints into account.
satellite navigation systems to improve their delivery schedules.
This not We promote the health, safety and welfare of both colleagues and only reduces the distance the vans and lorries travel but also provides customers across all our sites and we have a team of advisers who our customers with more predictable arrival times.
The Group is monitor and report to our Company Secretary on these issues.
constantly exploring new initiatives that make good CR sense while benefiting the businesses nancially.
At Darty France they have We have established a written set of Operating Principles and a Code introduced enhanced driver training with the aim of reducing fuel of Conduct which outlines the ethical standards we expect from all consumption and CO emissions by some 15 per cent.
Further savings employees of companies within the Group.
This includes both permanent 2 have come from the introduction of new delivery vehicles with Euro 5 and contract staff and any external consultants or suppliers we retain.
engines and Stop and Start technology.
Increased use of call centres has also led to less vehicle journeys to customers homes, not only Communities improving our customer service, but also reducing our CO emissions.
As a Group, we have more than 485 stores, warehouses and regional 2 ofces across nine European countries and Asia and we are committed People to working with the many communities this represents.
We work in As a specialist retailer committed to the best customer service, one partnership with outside organisations to address a number of longof our key differentiators and strengths is our people.
We have over standing social issues and we support a range of different charities 16,500 employees across Europe and Asia and we want them all to on a regional basis.
have satisfying and rewarding careers within the Group.
By respecting and valuing our employees we engage their talents and abilities to the Darty France has a long-standing reputation for helping the fullest extent.
We also realise that a well-trained workforce is a key disadvantaged.
Through the ENVIE programme over 6,000 previously differentiator and we therefore put a great emphasis on our training long-term unemployed have been trained in the repair of electrical programmes to improve store staff product knowledge.
During a two-year programme, trainees practise on end-ofintroduced 30 new online modules for staff training and is looking life products collected from customers.
Once repaired, these are then toexpand this further to cover home delivery and after-sales service.
sold from ENVIE stores at heavily discounted prices.
Darty France A programme to refurbish staff break rooms and ensure there is annually donates 38,000 to the Fondation Pasteur Weizman for access to a PC for training and personal use has nearly been medical research, principally into cancer, and 60,000 to Telemaque, completed in France.
which promotes access to jobs for less advantaged youths, and encourages Darty employers to become tutors.
We now have platforms across the whole Group for our employees opinions to be heard and we value their input on how the business BCC in Holland has enjoyed a close relationship with the World Wildlife is being run.
The first ever employee survey for Darty France has just Foundation WWF.
been launched and all our employees now participate in an employee survey.
Our communication channels include regular workers councils, Vanden Borre and Darty France raise funds for charities through the where issues are discussed with representatives from across the sale of toy models of their after-sales service vans.
24 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Datart in the Czech Republic and Slovakia has planted a forest of 12 months to 12 months to 12 months to Continuing group 30 April 2012 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 trees to replace those lost in storms and has been working closely with insurers to help those affected by the 2010 oods.
Datart works with a Staff training 42,222 54,605 56,489 number of charities by providing them with various items of electrical Accidents injuries 1,248 1,229 1,276 equipment, including 24 televisions for a hospice.
A-rated products sold 90.8% 89.5% 89.7% Package waste recycled tonnes 42,795 42,644 49,823 Performance criteria As part of our commitment to CR, we have set targets and objectives that we expect our companies to meet and we review their appropriateness regularly.
The focus for the past three financial years has been: 1 The number of days spent on staff training As a specialist electrical retailer, it is important that we create a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment and retention of talented staff who have excellent customer service skills and product knowledge.
2 The number of accidents or injuries to staff The provision of a safe and healthy place of work for our staff is aprimary concern and key responsibility.
3 The percentage of energy-efficient A-rated products sold Energy label ratings on fridge freezers help our customers choose more efficient models.
A-rated products use the least amount of energy thereby benefiting both our customers and the environment.
4 The number of tonnes of packaging waste collected and recycled Through our distribution channels and warehouses we can efficiently collect our own and customers waste for recycling.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 25
