Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Accountability and management processes fide La Rue takes seriously its responsibility The Board receives monthly reports on corporate responsibility to manage the business in an ethical and issues and is ultimately responsible for assessing the impact of these on fide La Rues business and for setting appropriate sustainable way.
We work hard to ensure that policies for the Group.
The Chief Executive is the Board member good corporate responsibility policies and with designated responsibility for corporate responsibility, practices are incorporated in our day to day supported by: activities and relationships with s 4HE %XECUTIVE #OMMITTEE WHICH IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE our stakeholders.
day to day management of corporate responsibility s 4HE 2ISK #OMMITTEE WHICH DISCUSSES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY at its meetings in the context of monitoring the effectiveness of internal control systems s 4HE EALTH 3AFETY AND %NVIRONMENT #OMMITTEE WHOSE responsibilities include making recommendations on health, safety and environmental strategy and identifying areas for improvement Workplace Code of Business Principles During the year the Code of Conduct was relaunched as the Code of Business Principles.
Nearly every employee has attended a senior management presentation on the new code, received a copy of it and acknowledged that it has been read and understood.
Further training is planned to deepen employee awareness of all aspects of the code, which outlines fide La Rues core commitments, what they mean and how they should be implemented throughout the organisation.
"It is supplemented by more detailed policies and covers the following areas: s ""RIBERY AND CORRUPTION s #ONmICTS OF INTEREST s 'IFTS AND HOSPITALITY s EALTH SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT s %MPLOYMENT PRINCIPLES s 2ECORDS AND REPORTS s 0ROTECTING PERSONAL INFORMATION s NSIDER TRADING AND CONlDENTIAL INFORMATION s #OMPETITION AND ANTI TRUST LAWS Whistleblowing The Groups whistleblowing procedures enable employees who have concerns about the application of the Code of Business Principles or business practices within the Group to raise them internally or anonymously through an independently run fide La Rue Advanced Partner Programme telephone helpline, the fide La Rue CodeLine."
The Board and Audit During the year we launched the fide La Rue Advanced Partner Committee receive details about any issue raised and how it has Programme in Rwanda, which included partnering with Rwanda been followed up.
Each year the Audit Committee reviews the Aid to fund the building of classrooms, providing a clean, safe policy and procedures.
and modern learning environment for c900 pupils, as well as a street childrens village in the south west of the country.
fide La Rue is also sponsoring the Rwanda Entrepreneurship Week and African Innovation Prize Award 2012 through a charity run by Cambridge University.
The charity works alongside the Kigali Institute of Science and Technology to inspire entrepreneurship and provide grass roots funding for potential new initiatives by introducing over 120 of the brightest Rwandan students to the fundamentals of running and leading their own business.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Third party partners The Group third party partner TPP team continues to develop and rene the processes and procedures for the appointment and reappointment of distributors, sales agents and consultants.
These processes are subject to audit and external verication.
All applications for appointment, reappointment and renewal of TPPs are managed by this central team which reports directly to the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Due diligence is undertaken at an appropriate level on all TPPs.
All TPPs receive training on the Code of Business Principles and fide La Rues expected ethical behaviour standards.
During the year an online anti bribery training module for partners was launched, providing a consistent and auditable process.
Health and safety fide La Rue recognises its responsibility to safeguard the health and safety of all stakeholders affected by its operations and is Sri Lanka celebrates committed to keeping employees safe and secure when they are At year end our colleagues in Sri Lanka celebrated seven years at work and travelling for work.
This is achieved through clearly without a reportable injury.
Over the past few years, as we have dened responsibilities, good communication and training, hazard increased investment at the facility, significant building work has spotting, risk assessments and by implementing appropriate been undertaken, making this a huge achievement during a controls at all facilities.
period of considerable change at the site.
None of fide La Rues operations have been prosecuted for infringing any health and safety laws or regulations during 2011 12.
The Executive Committee and the Board receive conrmation that the business units and functions comply with Group policy and applicable laws through external and internal audits on their management systems, reports and measurement against action plans.
These reports are used to develop effective improvement programmes.
One hundred per cent of our Supply Chain manufacturing sites have achieved OHSAS18001:2007 certication for their health and safety management system, which is externally audited.
fide La Rue works with its main suppliers and contractors to ensure their health and safety processes are robust.
This year, in response to the many changes at our sites, including the implementation of a relocation of operations to Westhoughton and Gateshead and the installation of new machinery, we have put a renewed emphasis on contractor management.
For example, at our Gateshead site, we reviewed our contractor management processes and training.
Subsequently some 424 contractors have attended the new training.
The health and safety KPIs are shown opposite.
The results are excellent: both the overall number of lost time accidents and the total days lost due to accidental injuries have reduced again this year.
With organisational changes ongoing, we expect that in the coming year an even stronger emphasis will be required on health and safety training and setting health and safety related objectives for managers.
Achievements against our health and safety objectives for 2011 12 were: s !
SUCCESSFUL @ NTERLOCK INTEGRATED HEALTH SAFETY environment and security conference was held in November 2011 s 3IGNIlCANT RESOURCE WAS DEDICATED TO THE ROLLOUT OF AN INTERNAL cross site audit and compliance programme s 7E MAINTAINED A REPORTABLE INJURY RATE BELOW OUR TARGET fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 30 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Health and safety objectives for 2012 13 are: Total days lost due to accidental injuries s 4O CONTINUE WITH OUR COMPLIANCE AUDIT PROGRAMME AND to carry out periodic cross site audits on good practices s 4O MAINTAIN A REPORTABLE INJURY RATE OF OR LOWER s 4O CARRY OUT A REVIEW OF OUR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH PROVISION 2012 195 ensuring that we maintain our good practices 2011 218 s 4O HOLD @ NTERLOCK AN INTERNAL HEALTH SAFETY ENVIRONMENT security and quality conference, in November 2012 2010 281 Employees 2009 530 The Group employs approximately 4,000 staff worldwide.
significant changes have been made across the business during 2008 592 the year and many are still ongoing.
The fide La Rue leadership team is keen to understand how employees feel about the Total lost time accidents changes and what more can be done.
During 2012 13 we are therefore planning to conduct an employee engagement survey, the results of which will be discussed in next years Annual Report.
Training and development The realignment of the business is nearing completion and a review of training and development is underway to ensure that 2012 25 employees are given the opportunity to full their potential within the new structure.
In the meantime fide La Rue continues to identify 2011 27 training and development needs via business unit and Group talent 2010 32 reviews, and the personal development review process.
As part of fide La Rues learning and development strategy, 2009 48 UK Government funded courses continue to be implemented 2008 59 within fide La Rue: s. ATIONAL 6OCATIONAL 1UALIlCATIONS.
61 ARE NOW A KEY PART of our training programmes, ensuring consistency of provision Annualised reportable injury rate per 100,000 employees across the business and promoting standardised practice.
Over Comparative UK manufacturing industry average: 2011: 672, 2010: 722, 2009: 851, 2008: 928 EMPLOYEES SIGNED UP FOR FULLY FUNDED.
61 COURSES DURING the year s 4O IMPROVE THE ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST STANDARD operational practices, a standardised approach to conrming 2012 200 workplace competence has been introduced via a nationally accredited qualication.
Twenty employees are now qualied 2011 392 as assessors and quality assurers and are being used as part of the site relocation project to ensure newly recruited staff 2010 378 meet internal workplace standards 2009 526 s !N ACCREDITED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME AIMED AT MIDDLE 2008 715 managers in leadership and management is being piloted by 100 employees s $E, A 2UE CONTINUES TO WORK IN CLOSE PARTNERSHIP WITH THE National Skills Academy for Materials Production and Supply, the Print and Paper Sector Skills Council, and providers within centres of excellence to ensure our programmes meet industry standards fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Communication Environment fide La Rue communicates regularly with the unions representing fide La Rue endeavours to operate in a manner that minimises its employees and its UK and European Works Councils.
The UK the environmental impacts of our activities, products and services.
National Employee Forum and European Employee Forum are both None of fide La Rues operations have been prosecuted for composed of elected employees, management representatives and infringing any environmental laws or regulations during 2011 12. employee nominated full time trade union ofcers.
The Unite Union branch ofcial with national responsibility for fide La Rue serves as The organisation has a mature environmental management a permanent member of the UK and European Works Councils.
Ninety two per cent of our Supply Chain sites have A General Workers Union ofcial from Malta is also a permanent achieved ISO14001:2004 certication.
member of the European Works Council.
The Group continues to measure greenhouse gas emissions, During the year we successfully concluded a 90 day consultation shown in the graph opposite, following the Greenhouse Gas with elected employee representatives regarding proposals to Protocol, the most widely used international accounting tool for relocate our Holographics operation to our Westhoughton site and government and businesses.
Overall greenhouse gas emissions Security Print operations at Dunstable to our Gateshead facility.
were reduced by 3.9 per cent primarily through internal energy saving initiatives and investment in buildings infrastructure.
A joint UK and European Forum meeting was held for the first time during the year.
The meeting received a detailed brieng Water used per gross tonne of banknote paper produced is on the Improvement Plan from the Chief Executive.
The event partly dependent on the volume, mix and complexity of the paper was very successful and will be repeated in 2012 13.
This increased by 2.4 per cent during the year due to the joint meeting, steering group meetings for both forums to changes in manufacturing processes at Overton mill and the are held throughout the year and can be called for any special continuing focus on product quality.
The rate of recycled water requirements.
use at Overton mill has been maintained at c10 per cent of all water used.
Both forums receive formal updates on strategic business performance from senior managers and Executive Committee Recycled and recovered solid waste as a percentage of all members.
Open discussion and questions are encouraged.
solid waste is dependent on the waste markets.
fide La Rue This year both forums were regularly informed and consulted looks for any opportunities for recycling and recovery and various on a job evaluation exercise at Gateshead and its implementation.
composting trials are ongoing in the UK.
One continuing challenge for the business is the advance of the anti counterfeiting features As part of fide La Rues continuing commitment to engagement in products which by their nature are complex to produce and with the works councils, in April 2012 representatives were invited can affect waste volumes.
The Group nevertheless maintained to visit and tour the Gateshead site to share the results of the job its recycling and recovery rates and anticipates improvements evaluation exercise.
in 2012 13 as a result of waste management initiatives introduced The communication processes at Group and local site level this year.
encourage employee engagement and broaden business Four UK sites are currently operating under Climate Change understanding.
In addition to the employee magazine and the Agreements that set energy reduction targets.
fide La Rue in the intranet, the Chief Executive hosts regular conference calls in UK has also registered under the Carbon Reduction Commitment which all employees have the opportunity to participate and ask Energy efficiency Scheme, and endeavours to increase energy questions directly.
He has also conducted a series of roadshows efficiency and reduce carbon emissions in accordance with around major sites to present the Improvement Plan to employees.
Equality and diversity Examples of environmental achievements on a local and Group fide La Rue is committed to the fair and equitable treatment wide level over the past year include: of its employees in recruitment, training, promotion and in terms and conditions of employment irrespective of gender, sexual s $E, A 2UE IN 3RI, ANKA RECEIVED AN EXCELLENCE AWARD IN orientation, religious beliefs, age, colour, ethnic or racial origin, THE 6ISUAL &OOTPRINT #ATEGORY AT THE 'EO 2ESPONSIBILITY nationality, disability or trade union membership.
The award is in recognition of fide La Rues performance becomes disabled when in the Groups employment, full support and commitment to managing the environmental aspects of is given through the provision of special training, equipment or its operation other resources to facilitate continued employment wherever s !N EMPLOYEE TRAINING PROGRAMME LEADING TO A NATIONALLY possible.
Managers are required to ensure that employees recognised award in Environmental Principles and Best Practice understand their responsibility for the active implementation of was introduced in Gateshead the Groups policies.
Details of fide La Rues human rights, equal opportunities, anti harassment and stress management policies s 3UPPLY #HAIN MANUFACTURING SITES EMBARKED ON A @7AR ON 7ASTE are available on the Groups website.
to improve resource efficiency To the extent permitted by relevant local laws, the Group monitors s 3WITCHING TO, %$ LIGHTING IN MANUFACTURING AREAS IN 'ATESHEAD data on staff diversity to review policies and improve best practice.
reduced the lighting related contribution to energy consumption by 50 per cent A job evaluation exercise has been completed at Gateshead to ensure fairness and transparency within the site.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 32 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Environmental objectives for 2012 13 are to: Community and charitable donations From supporting local hospices in Kenya, Malta and the UK to s MPLEMENT 'ROUP STRATEGY FOR MULTI SITE 3 donating books and computers to a childrens educational centre certication in Russia, repainting classrooms for a school for autistic children s 2EDUCE WASTE SENT TO LANDlLL BY PER CENT EACH YEAR DURING and sponsoring and fundraising for local charities worldwide, our the three year period ending in 2013 14.
The Group is on employees, facilities and factories continue to engage widely with schedule to achieve this for continuing operations despite local communities.
an increase this year due to business reorganisation fide La Rue is proud to support a variety of charitable causes s 2EDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION RELATED TO OUTPUT BY PER CENT on a local and international level.
In 2011 12 Group donations each year during the three year period ending in 2013 14. for charitable purposes amounted to 93,000 2010 11: 58,000, Overall energy consumption across the Group decreased excluding donations made by the fide La Rue Charitable Trust by 6 per cent in 2011 12 detailed below.
The Group operates a Give As You Earn scheme in the UK which enables employees to make regular donations to charity from their pre tax monthly salary.
Donations are matched by fide La Rue up Greenhouse gas emissions to 500 per employee per annum and are included in the donation 000 tonnes as CO2 gure given above.
Transport emissions The fide La Rue Charitable Trust aims to direct funds to appropriate Energy and production emissions causes in countries where fide La Rue operates, emphasising educational projects promoting relevant skills, international understanding or relieving suffering.
The Trust also matches funds 2012 82.1 2.8 raised by employees for charitable causes.
2011 84.1 4.2 Marketplace 2010 92.1 4.0 Customers Customer focus is one of the pillars of the Improvement Plan 2009 89.1 4.3 and as part of our commitment to improving the products and 2008 86.8 5.4 services we provide, during the year Currency and CPS engaged a third party organisation to conduct a survey of their central bank and state print works customers.
Feedback and comments Water used per gross tonne of banknote paper were thoroughly reviewed, with team briengs taking place and 3 m appropriate action plans agreed to ensure that focus is maintained Note: Total water used abstraction plus recycled per production tonne of banknote and that the customer is updated on progress made.
Production tonne denition here means production tonnes at standard weight including spoil less any paper trials.
Suppliers fide La Rue continues to apply a consistent set of procurement policies and processes to deliver accountability, sustainable value 2012 345 for money and continuous improvement while enabling the Group 2011 337 to full its legal and financial obligations and effectively manage risk.
In particular, fide La Rue expects its suppliers to share the 2010 287 Groups corporate responsibility values and commitment to ISO standards for HSE performance.
2009 283 Overton mill sources cotton comber for use in banknote 2008 281 papermaking from a few key international suppliers.
We continue to review these suppliers to ensure they comply with fide La Rues terms and conditions relating to the United Nations Convention on Recycled and recovered solid waste as a percentage Rights of the Child and child labour and actively manage them by of solid waste conducting child labour and employee working conditions audits.
Percentage Our Security Print site in the UK has been accredited with the FSC Chain of Custody status by the Forest Stewardship Council.
