Sustainability review Building the right future Debenhams does not have a sustainability department.
For us, being environmentally and socially responsible is embedded into the business and into everyones role.
Our sustainability committee represents all key areas of the business.
Our experts in every Martina King, chair of sustainability aspect of retail have a deep understanding of committee the direct benefi ts we can introduce by adopting sustainability measures.
For more information go to sustainability.
com 48 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Debenhams has been trading successfully In line with our business strategy to simplify for over 200 years.
Our ability to endure as much as possible, P2E consolidates the is founded on our long history of acting work of our four internal working groups responsibly towards our stakeholders ethical sustainable sourcing, logistics and shareholders, suppliers, customers, distribution, environment and people into employees and local communities three main areas of focus which balance the as well as the environment.
economic, environmental and social aspects of sustainability.
We do not have a dedicated sustainability department and our sustainability Sustainable supply committee may be relatively new but Sustainable supply brings together the our practice of sustainability principles commitments of our ethical sustainable is well established.
The material issues sourcing working group with relevant for our sustainability working groups elements of logistics and distribution ethical sustainable sourcing, logistics namely, their objective to ensure our supply and distribution, environment and people chain is robust so that goods always fl ow.
derive from Debenhams risk register, Environmental responsibility which has been a foundation of our business Our priorities for environmental strategy for many years.
The discipline Sustainability drivers responsibility are climate change, energy and The material issues for Debenhams of annually updating the register has waste.
We aim to reduce our environmental sustainability working groups derive from our created a culture where managers across footprint through various initiatives risk register.
Commercial drivers have always the business routinely seek to identify, undertaken by the logistics and distribution been paramount but wherever possible, we mitigate and eliminate risks.
seek economically benefi cial measures with positive social and environmental impacts.
Commercial drivers have always been Connecting with people paramount.
All managers review practices Our people working group is committed regularly to ensure their area is operating to attracting, keeping and growing our as eff ectively and effi ciently as possible.
employees: to delivering the service, Wherever possible, we seek economically standards and goods our customers expect benefi cial measures with positive social and to making a positive contribution to and environmental impacts.
local communities and national charities.
A sounding board Sustainability reporting Debenhams sustainability committee Last year we committed to launching a brings together experts from all aspects dedicated website as our principal method of retail from sourcing and supply through of communication of sustainability issues.
to stores, staff and sales.
The committee This site is now live at sustainability.
meets quarterly to update Debenhams debenhamsplc.
Following on from sustainability chair Martina King on P2E, our sustainability website focuses progress towards our commitments.
on the three areas of sustainable supply, The committee also acts as a forum for environmental responsibility and new ideas amongst members and between connecting with people.
the diff erent working groups, leading to The aim of the website is to update increased collaboration across the business.
P2E stakeholders regularly with news about our The advantage of embedding sustainability Our sustainability committee has been very sustainability progress as initiatives unfold into everyones role is that all decisions can active on both a practical and strategic level.
The new site is also home be practically implemented by the relevant While working on targets set for the year, to details of our sustainability approach, department heads.
we have also been developing a longer-term our policies and key performance data for sustainability plan.
We have now drawn Plan to endure the year.
The following pages of this review up Debenhams Plan to Endure P2E.
During 2012, the sustainability committee aim to highlight the progress Debenhams has been very active on both a practical and has made on sustainability during 2012. strategic level.
Whilst working on targets set Supply highlights for the year, we have also been developing The market has continued to be volatile in a longer-term sustainability plan.
terms of costs of cotton and other materials, We have now drawn up Debenhams Plan labour and shipping, but we were successful to Endure P2E, the aim of which is to in ensuring the continued supply of goods continue to grow and be here for the duration during the year at the quality and value our by doing the right things for our stakeholders.
P2E entails driving overall business One trial that proved benefi cial was working performance while living up to our directly with mills supplying cotton, denim responsibilities as a retailer, employer and chinos.
By consolidating orders across and business partner, as a steward of internal divisions, we were able to negotiate the environment and our shareholders directly with mills to secure supplies at an investments and as a member of acceptable cost to us and our suppliers.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Sustainability review continued Our close relationship with suppliers also our use of resources and our production ensured a sustained fl ow of goods from of waste will result in lower overheads and China that avoided unpredictable labour that improve our ability to endure economically.
traditionally follows the Chinese New Year Our 2012 environmental activities have holiday.
We talked to our suppliers to gauge contributed towards this.
labour availability and understand how We participate in the UK governments CRC many workers they expected to return.
Energy Effi ciency Scheme and have been By changing our critical path for menswear, reporting greenhouse gas GHG emissions womenswear and childrenswear we made online to the Carbon Disclosure Project sure our goods were produced earlier, CDP for the past three years.
Our latest which gave us a competitive advantage.
CDP submission for the year ended August In light of ongoing international shipping 2011 shows that our overall emissions grew issues, Debenhams policy to take direct by 6%, while like-for-like emissions based on responsibility for shipping was also of fl oorspace reduced by 2%.
strategic and commercial benefi t. Our high The increase in overall emissions is due to freight on board FOB policy delivers our increased scope and improved methods improved speed, cost and visibility further of reporting, including data for our operations up the supply chain.
We know instantly in Denmark as well as new calculation where and when problems occur and, methods.
We reduced our like-for-like where necessary, can switch supplies to consumption of purchased energy through another country to ensure continued supply.
a combination of monitoring and targeting We used diff erent shipping lines to spread of store energy, staff awareness, training risk and improved logistics planning to and bonus incentives as well as technical achieve increased loads and greater cost support and energy effi ciency investments.
We also achieved We appointed New Star Environmental as our lowest ever demurrage charges.
our new store waste contractor in March Environmental progress 2012.
New Star understands our business As well as complying with all mandatory and the diff erent operational needs of our requirements, we believe there is a very stores.
On our behalf, they manage contracts strong and valid business case for being with a number of regional suppliers to ensure environmentally responsible.
Reducing the most fl exible and eco-effi cient solutions Ethical supply Debenhams has been a member of the SGS are our nominated global partner for Ethical Trading Initiative ETI since 2001. social, ethical and technical audits.
In 2012, All our suppliers must sign our Code of the monitoring programme covered 99% Conduct, based on the ETI Base Code.
of our total manufacturing base.
Every supplier and factory undergoes We have also continued with random regular social, ethical and technical auditing.
unannounced visits, fi first initiated in 2011.
Our Code of Conduct lays out an number As well as monitoring compliance, we of labour rights principles, for example, that engage fi first-hand with our manufacturers, no child labour is used, no discrimination giving us fi first-hand insight into local social is practised, correct wages are paid and and economic pressures, how factories are product safety standards are adhered to.
responding and what we need to do to work collectively together for positive remediation.
Energy effi ciency Energy effi ciency is a key component of our For example, trials replacing lights with continuing store modernisation programme.
energy effi cient lamps in the Scarborough We are investing a total of 1.2million in and White Rose stores achieved like-for-like lighting, heating, ventilation and air savings of 37% and 31% respectively.
conditioning control projects which will Reducing the voltage in Swindon reduced reduce energy consumption while improving energy consumption between 8 and 13% the store environment for customers.
To date, such measures have saved nearly 400,000 on energy We know that energy use increases when across the business and we are on track to store modernisation is carried out overnight see a full return on our investment within and we will carefully review energy four years.
consumption for all stores that have been modernised this year, but initial results are very encouraging.
50 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 are available to us.
A full year review will be We now have a calendar of support for these carried out in April, but initial fi gures indicate charities that encourages individual stores that we are now sending far less to landfi ll, to fundraise in their preferred style.
Stores resulting in signifi cant fi financial savings.
also have the freedom to support local causes during other times of the year.
Connecting with people Customers are at the heart of our decision The Debenhams Foundation number making.
Delivering on our customer promise 1147682 was formally registered with the relies on the commitment of our 30,000 Charity Commission on 13 June 2012. employees so we remain committed All funds raised for charity will go through to attracting, retaining and growing the Foundation, providing improved the very best talent in the industry.
Nikki Zamblera, HR Director, is chair of the trustees We created 168 new jobs during 2012 who include former Debenhams senior through the opening of two new stores in managers, Pat Skinner and Keith Markham.
We also worked in partnership with Capita to open a new Our future plans customer call centre in Leeds.
During 2013 we plan to progress many initiatives that will contribute towards We continued our policy to appoint the Debenhams sustainability goals.
majority of store and head offi ce managers internally.
Over the 12 months to the In supply, we will be undertaking trials for end of September 2012, 89% of retail sourcing merchandise closer to home in management appointments and 69% Europe.
We will also progress trials to ship of senior executive appointments at merchandise directly from the country of head offi ce were internal promotions.
manufacture to our international franchisees.
Debenhams Design Team remains the We expect further improvements through key vehicle for quantitative feedback from our waste management contracts and to customers.
15,000 registered customers see environmental and economic benefi ts participate in regular surveys to provide of our investments in store modernisation opinions on initiatives such as advertising, and our upgraded distribution fl eet.
branding, charity involvement and store Our new employee and customer surveys modernisation.
We use this feedback to should give us more relevant information infl uence decision making throughout about ways to improve peoples experience the business.
We also look forward to Our Customer Closeness programme has our head offi ce move in 2013. proved extremely valuable for qualitative Updates on all activities will be posted feedback.
Our Chief Executive Michael Sharp on our dedicated sustainability website: and other senior executives spend a day in sustainability.
store each quarter gaining insights directly from customers and non-customers.
Our long tradition of connecting with local communities and supporting good causes became more strategic during 2012.
Following feedback from our customers and employees, we have formed national partnerships with BBC Children in Need, NSPCC, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Breast Cancer Campaign, Pink Ribbon Foundation and Movember.
Customer confi dence Debenhams long-running Inclusivity decision that makes commercial sense Campaign was honoured with the because it appeals to a wider audience.
Campaign for Body Confi dence Retail Debenhams also supports the UK All-Party Award in April 2012.
The judges believe the Parliamentary Group on Body Image: we are campaign showcases imagery that is a signatory to the British Retail Consortium inspirational and realistic by using models guidelines on responsible marketing to who are older, curvier and visually disabled children and the Mumsnet Let Girls be to inspire modern day British women.
Campaigns like this are For us, using models, mannequins and important for sustaining consumer trust photography that customers can identify and confi dence.
with is about more than taking a socially responsible stance.
Inclusivity is a business Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Governance This section explains the boards approach to corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
p55 Chairmans introduction p56 Board of directors p58 Corporate governance report p63 Directors report p66 Remuneration report For more information go to ar12.
com 52 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Quick reference guide to the contents of the Governance section Chairmans introduction p55 Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code p55 Re-election of directors p55 Board of directors p56 to 57 Principal committees of the board p56 Role of the board p58 The Chairman and Chief Executive p58 Senior Independent Director p59 Performance evaluation p59 Directors indemnities p59 & p64 Directors confl icts of interest p59 Auditor independence p60 Relations with shareholders p60 Major shareholdings p63 Share capital p63 to 64 Annual General Meeting p65 Remuneration policy for executive directors p67 Summary of executive directors remuneration p68 Summary of bonus schemes p68 to 69 Remuneration of non-executive directors p72 Performance graph p72 Directors shareholdings p73 Directors emoluments p73 Pension p74 Directors interests in share plans p74 Statement of directors responsibilities p75 Auditors report p76 Committee letters Nomination Committee p61 Audit Committee p62 Remuneration Committee p66 For more information go to ar12.
com 54 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
