Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Sustainability & Responsibility Alcohol in society Water and the environment Diageo realises that it is increasingly important Drinking alcohol has been part of the social Diageo uses a wide range of resources in its for investors to understand not only its and cultural life of communities throughout business.
Some, like fuel, are finite: others, like financial performance, but also the manner in the world for centuries.
It can play a positive cereals, are vulnerable to the effects of climate which it manages its social and environmental role in social occasions and celebrations for change.
To reduce the risks to the business impacts.
This is integral to the companys those who choose to drink, however, Diageo and position itself for future success, Diageos business strategy and supports the purpose: recognises that the misuse of alcohol can environmental strategy seeks to achieve celebrating life every day, everywhere.
cause serious problems for individuals, and maintain environmental sustainability Diageos global Sustainability & communities and society.
As such Diageo a condition where its business causes neither Responsibility strategy aims to address the works to market its brands responsibly to long term critical depletion of natural companys key impacts at every stage of the adults, and support programmes and policies resources nor lasting damage to species, value chain.
This is driven by the needs and that create a more positive role for alcohol in habitats, biodiversity or the climate.
This concerns of Diageos business partners and society.
As the worlds leading premium drinks becomes ever more important as Diageo other stakeholders, including employees, business, Diageo wants to play an active part grows in emerging markets, where the regulators, customers, non-governmental in tackling alcohol misuse and focuses on demand on such resources is often greater.
organisations NGOs, as well as the areas where resources and expertise can be Diageos overall environmental strategy investment community.
Diageo works with the focuses on direct environmental impacts The particular impacts Diageo focuses beverage alcohol industry, governments and prioritises water efficiency, the reduction on are alcohol in society, water and the and other groups to establish high company of greenhouse gases, the polluting power environment, local socio-economic and industry standards on responsible of water and waste to landfill, and the development, people and governance marketing and selling: providing information sustainability of its packaging.
In addition to its own operations, to help consumers make informed and Diageo is looking to engage with its supply Diageo is increasingly working on these five responsible choices about when, whether chain to address indirect environmental impact areas with suppliers as well as with and how they drink: investing in programmes impacts across the whole value chain.
customers and consumers in a holistic that aim to minimise alcohol misuse: and Diageo has set stretching targets strategy across the value chain.
In the year promoting effective government alcohol across each of these priorities driving ended 30 June 2012, Diageo began a policies and debate about the role of towards a target date of 2015 with most programme of materiality workshops to alcohol in society.
measured against a baseline year of 2007. analyse the companys impacts at the local Diageo directly or indirectly supports The exception is the groups sustainable level in its 21 markets, and help customise close to 300 programmes in 49 countries packaging targets, which are measured its approach to meet evolving expectations throughout the world to address alcohol against a baseline year of 2009.
The Diageo and opportunities around the world.
misuse with a focus on preventing drink Executive Environmental Working Group is Below is a summary of each impact driving, underage drinking and excessive responsible for setting environmental policy area, with the exception of people, which drinking.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, and strategy.
The policy is supported by is reported on above under Employees, Diageo refreshed its Digital Marketing Code Global Supplys risk management framework, and governance and ethics, which is to reflect its ongoing commitment to which sets implementation criteria and primarily reported in the Executive direction ensuring that online marketing is as provides a mechanism for monitoring and control, Internal control and risk responsible as that in traditional media.
As stated in Diageos management and Compliance and ethics To this end, Diageo completed a companyenvironmental policy, the companys actions programme sections of the Corporate wide refresher course for all relevant marketers in respect of the environment are planned governance report.
A separate Sustainability and third party agencies.
In terms of industry in light of prevailing scientific knowledge & Responsibility Report with full details of standards, this financial year has been a and do not depend on having proof of each impact area is available on the landmark year in industry self-regulation, specific damage, thus supporting the Diageo website.
with the agreement of global responsible concept of a precautionary approach.
marketing standards, European and US digital guidelines for distilled spirits and the Water industry-wide European Responsible A reliable supply of good quality water is Marketing Pact.
essential to Diageos business because water Diageo has continued to partner with is the main ingredient in almost all of Diageos its stakeholders to make the case for effective products and influences brand integrity as alcohol policies.
In particular Diageo has well as being used for cleaning and cooling continued to support member states at production sites.
Water resources are under implement the World Health Organisations pressure from development in many parts of WHO 2010 Global Strategy to Reduce the the world and from climate changes that may Harmful Use of Alcohol.
WHO will conduct restrict availability in the future.
a review of the strategy next year and Diageo In the year ended 30 June 2012 Diageo is working with the International Center for built on the findings of a water stress Alcohol Policies and its members to showcase assessment conducted in 2008 to reassess industry efforts in support of the strategy.
the extent of water stress in areas in which Industry members plan to disseminate a the group operates and the effectiveness Diageo topped the food and report addressed to the international of current equipment and practices in these beverage sector in the FTSE4GOOD community highlighting its unique areas.
Applying United Nations UN and index 2012.
The index, which is designed to objectively measure contribution to the strategy by capturing World Business Council for Sustainable the performance of companies that the broad scope of initiatives implemented meet globally recognised corporate across the globe.
responsibility standards, saw Diageos score of 4.8 out of 5 beat a prestigious group of companies.
Business description 33 Development databases and specific site Diageo has set targets aspiring to reduce the In addition to water efficiency, Diageo aims survey methodologies, Diageo designated amount of water used against a baseline set in to reduce the polluting power of its effluent 12 production sites as being located in areas the year ended 30 June 2007 and a target year measured in Biochemical Oxygen Demand which are water-stressed, identifying them of 2015.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, BOD per gram of litre of product packaged.
as higher risk in terms of having a sustainable Diageo achieved a 7.2% improvement in The majority of Diageos BOD in discharged water supply in the coming years.
All of these water efficiency and decreased total water water comes from Diageos Cameronbridge 3 are in Africa, where the UN predicts that nearly used by 858,000 cubic metres m compared distillery in Scotland where a new bioenergy 50% of the population will face water scarcity to the year ended 30 June 2011.
While some plant has been built which will generate by 2025.
As such, water challenges in these savings are the result of major investments, renewable energy while also reducing areas in particular will affect not only Diageos most come from significant operational BOD load.
business but also its business partners and improvements relating to equipment, Complementing the work to reduce the the local communities who rely on water for processes, culture and behaviour.
water impact of its direct operations, Diageos their livelihoods.
Achimota brewery in Ghana is a key Water of Life programme invests in many Diageos Blueprint Water Framework, example where water efficiency was projects aimed at providing local communities launched in 2010, guides the groups improved by 29% through a programme of with access to safe water.
Since June 2006, approach to managing water and protecting continuous improvement and across Diageos Diageo has launched over 170 Water of Life water sources in the regions where Diageo operations in Ghana, total water use was projects in 16 countries, mostly in Africa, 3 operates.
The framework aims to improve reduced by 154,000m in the current year supporting a range of initiatives including water use efficiency and reduce the compared to year ended 30 June 2011.
A more boreholes, hand-dug wells, rainwater wastewater impacts of Diageos direct modest saving was achieved in Quebec, harvesting and domestic filtration devices.
operations: reduce water scarcity problems Canada, where an optimisation programme that affect local populations: and contribute for the clean-in-place system at Diageos Greenhouse gases to the water and sanitation Millennium Valleyfield distillery cut the water used for The release of greenhouse gases, notably 3 Development Goals by working with other cleaning and reduced total water use by 11m carbon dioxide generated by burning fossil 3 organisations in accordance with the UN per day saving a projected 2,700 m annually.
fuels, has an impact on climate change Global Compact CEO Water Mandate.
In water stressed sites in both East and in terms of global temperatures, weather In its operations, Diageo works to West Africa, practical improvements have patterns and weather severity which, either improve its understanding of its water brought significant savings, including directly or indirectly, presents considerable 3 footprint, the impact of its water usage, 55,000m at East Africa Maltings Ltd, Kenya risks both to the business and the planet.
and how a further reduction in its use of water through recovery and water re-use at various These risks include impacts on agriculture resources may be achieved.
Diageo collects process stages and a heightened awareness on which the company depends for raw and reviews water consumption data from and attitude towards water conservation.
materials: disruption to the companys 3 across the markets where it operates and the At Kaase brewery in Ghana 14,000m of operations or those of commercial partners: production sites over which it has operational water were saved through investment in and changes to the nature or distribution of control using internally developed guidelines.
the replacement of a pasteuriser and other consumer demand.
Diageo assumes that the The guidelines define water usage based on operational improvements.
In addition to risks from climate change could be mitigated the total amount of water abstracted from investing in water treatment and recovery if the releases of greenhouse gases were source such as groundwater, surface water or systems in water-stressed areas, Diageo sufficiently diminished and, as such, has mains less any clean water provided back to supports targeted water conservation efforts worked for many years to reduce direct CO 2 local communities directly from a site.
Cooling and employee engagement in its efficiency emissions from fuels and indirect CO 2 water abstracted and returned to the same programmes.
In the current year two of emissions from electricity.
Accordingly, source is excluded from the total water used.
Diageos water stressed sites in Africa achieved the group has set targets aspiring to reduce In addition to reviewing total water usage, their 2015 target of 50% reduction in water greenhouse gas emissions against a baseline Diageo aims to improve its efficiency, by wasted.
East Africa Maltings Ltd recorded a set in the year ended 30 June 2007 and a monitoring the amount of water used to 43% reduction in water wasted, over the last target year of 2015. produce one litre of product packaged and 12 months alone, and EABL Kenya Glass has refining operations processes to minimise recorded a 66% reduction overall.
Particular The amount of water used in the last attention is being devoted to the 12 three years ended 30 June 2012 is as follows: production sites designated as being located in water-stressed areas where Diageo has made additional investment in water treatment and water recovery systems.
1 Year ended 30 June 2012 2011 2010 3 Total water used thousand metres 23,070 23,928 24,433 Water efficiency litres per litre of product 6.4 6.9 7.1 Data included in this table in respect of the year ended 30 June 2012 is covered by KPMGs independent assurance report see Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc under Additional information for shareholders section.
1 2007 baseline data and data for the four years ended 30 June 2011 has been restated in accordance with Diageo Environmental Reporting Guidelines, available at http: srrreport2012.
