solutions, sponsorship and point of sale employer.
Diageo has also been recognised Employee engagement is a key element activities.
Global procurement also in reports published by Great Place to Work of Diageos people strategy.
A values survey, supports business services, facilities Institute as a leading workplace in Argentina, which includes a measure of employee and computer services.
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, the engagement, is conducted with employees The global technical function develops European Union, Germany, Ireland, the Latin every year.
Now in its tenth year, this survey and implements consistent engineering America region, Mexico, the Netherlands, provides an annual insight into what solutions across the Global Supply Nigeria, Portugal, Uganda, the United employees are thinking and feeling about organisation and in other production sites Kingdom, Uruguay and Venezuela.
The values survey allows Diageo, in Africa and Asia.
The global supply chain achievements have only been possible at group, function and team levels, to assess function also provides logistics services through the commitment of the thousands how the business is tracking against the long in Europe and is responsible for a consistent of talented and inspirational employees who term goals of engaging employees and customer service globally.
have collectively made Diageo a great place consistently bringing Diageos values to life.
For the 2012 values survey, 91% of Diageos Corporate Diageo values diversity in its workforce employees participated and the overall Corporate costs which cannot be directly and works to ensure that the group is inclusive engagement score was 86%, an increase of allocated to the business areas are reported of all people, regardless of their background 1% from last year despite a period of change separately within Corporate in the analysis or style.
To enhance diversity, Diageo aims in many regions.
The highest level of of business performance.
Also included in to create opportunities that are attractive engagement as measured by the survey Corporate are the revenues and costs related to a wide range of candidates, including is termed super engaged.
This is a very to rents receivable in respect of properties not those with disabilities, and seeks to make challenging measure that Diageo has set used by Diageo in the manufacture, sale or working for Diageo compatible with a variety itself requiring individuals to assign the distribution of premium drink products and of lifestyles.
Diageo sponsors an ever growing highest possible ranking to all of our the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
number of employee networks around the engagement questions.
Diageos aspiration world that seek to support diverse interest is that 50% or more of its employees are Seasonal impacts groups.
The company also seeks to design super-engaged.
In the 2012 values survey, Approximately 40% of annual net sales occur and adjust roles to accommodate peoples 40% of employees measured as super in the last four months of each calendar year.
lifestyles and increasingly encourages flexible engaged, which is a decrease of 1% from working.
Not only is this approach to inclusion the 2011 values survey results.
Employees and diversity consistent with Diageos values, Diageo strongly believes in the value Diageos people, its culture and its values are it is also believed to be important for the long of its employees sharing in the companys at the heart of the companys strategy and term health of the organisation.
As part of success and actively encourage employees Diageos directors believe this to be a source Diageos global policies, Diageo emphasises to become shareholders.
The group seeks of competitive advantage.
It continues to be the importance of treating individuals justly out opportunities to extend employee share Diageos goal to release the potential of all and in a non-discriminatory manner in all ownership around the world and in 2012 of its people.
aspects of employment, including 31 countries operated an all employee share Diageos review of its operating model recruitment, compensation and benefits, plan.
A further two countries will be invited during the past year and the resulting training, promotion, transfer and to participate in Diageos International changes have presented new challenges termination.
Accordingly, factors not Sharematch Plan later this year.
This, combined for its employees.
In developed markets the relevant to the requirements of a role, with existing employee share plans, will new operating model has meant a focus on including without limitation race, religion, further extend the opportunity to the efficiency and customer orientation.
For colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, majority of employees across a significant emerging markets, it has resulted in a greater sexual orientation, gender or marital status, number of Diageos markets to share in the focus on investment in brands and in are not considered, and reasonable companys growth and success.
As at 30 June commercial and leadership capability.
As a adjustments are considered and if necessary 2012, 16,531 past and present employees held consequence, there has been an internal shift appropriate training provided so that no 1.16% 2011 1.17% of Diageos ordinary of employees and resources to the areas of individual is disadvantaged.
Early indicators suggest that Diageos employees feel that they have benefited from this new and Average number of employees focused approach.
Diageo has been 2011 2010 2012 restated restated committed to providing its employees with North America 1,105 1,229 1,331 appropriate support during this transition Europe 3,802 2,913 2,949 period, both in the case of employees that have left the company following the changes Africa 5,116 4,253 3,674 and those that have taken on new roles Latin America and Caribbean 1,631 1,413 1,261 within the company.
Asia Pacific 2,902 2,639 2,585 Diageo prides itself on creating an Global Supply 8,120 8,202 8,491 environment that is both welcoming and Corporate and other 3,022 3,137 2,996 inspirational for its employees and is proud to 25,698 23,786 23,287 have been included in the prestigious Great Place to Work Institutes 25 Best Multinational Following the changes in the regional structure the employee information by segment for the years ended Workplaces, achieving an 11th place ranking 30 June 2011 and 2010 has been restated which better reflects the segment for which the employees provide confirming its place as a leading global the majority of their services.
The average number of employees from 30 June 2011 to 30 June 2012 for developed markets has decreased by 393 from 15,984 to 15,591 and for emerging markets has increased by 2,305 from 7,802 to 10,107.
