Governance Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 39 Governance Sustainability Sticking to report our values undetectable.
Principal areas of focus are the As Dialight continues to Environmental responsibilities reduction of waste, and the minimisation of grow and remains focused ISO14001 waterand energyconsumption.
During the year Dialight reviewed all on its delivery against market During the year a concerted effort has been environmental management procedures and expectations, its approach madeto obtain and record utility usage data dened and implemented a new Environmental fromall company sites worldwide in order to build and recognition of the management system for the European business.
accurate information that will enable Dialight to This resulted inthe Group gaining extended importance of its environmental monitor increases in these levels going forward.
certication for ISO14001 to cover sites in responsibilities, treatment of Tocomply with new mandatory greenhouse gas Germany and Denmark aswell as the existing reporting regulations further work is ongoing to employees and the way it does certication in the UK.
ensure that the company will be able to present business increases in parallel.
Products abreakdown of its carbon usage in its next The Groups biggest environmental impact by far annualreport.
The next three years will see is a positive one.
Dialights lighting products last All Group sites worldwide will be using Dialight much longer and use less energy when compared Dialight continue to move lights by the end of 2013 unless such site is a to their counterparts that utilise different technology.
forward with its cohesive and shared facility.
This will drastically reduce current The Groups engineers play an important role holistic approach to corporate energy and maintenancecosts.
inprogressing the programme to reduce the responsibilities through centralised Recycling amountof material used in its products and, All sites operate to increase, reuse and recycle oversight, improving data where practical, tosubstitute hazardous materials including packaging.
During the year the material.
This action covers Dialights own gathering, continued effective Group has been collating details of the types of purchases and material used bysuppliers.
communication and further recycling conducted at all locations with the aim of TheGroups products are WEEE compliant working towards full utilisation of recycling facilities introduction of initiatives and andcompliance with the regulation has not where these exist and seeking to promote the hadamaterial impact on the Group.
Following targets to stimulate activities benets ofrecycling to all employees.
The UK acustomer request Dialight isnow registered throughout the Group.
location generates a high volume of scrap wood, forrecycling of electrical andelectronic waste including cable reels and non-euro standard pallets inGermany under their interpretation of the that had previously been incinerated.
To stop this WEEEregulations known asElekto-G. activity arrangements have been put in place with Utility usage acharitable community business which recycles No manufacturing sites or the Groups business wood waste into products for sale or wood pellets ingeneral terms have a signicantly negative for domestic wood burning heating systems.
environmental impact although increases in the level Inaddition, one of the UKs environmental of production and the addition of a new facility in objectives of 2012 was to move to zero to landll Malaysia will continue to challenge thelevel of our from March 2013 through a change in waste carrier.
The Groups environmental policy With this inplace all waste will be recycled, or if this species that manufacturing sites should operate is not possible incinerated at the Lakeside Energy within systems which monitor, control and, where waste plant at Colnebrook, Berkshire.
This change practical, minimise anyenvironmental effect.
isenvisaged to be cost neutral to the business.
Emissions of gases, chemicals and water are well below government thresholds and, in most cases, www.
com 40 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Sustainability report continued Valero Refinery, New Jersey, US Ethical business Anti-Bribery and Corruption The Code of Business Conduct CBC Dialight conducts all its business in an honest Dialights CBC wasintroduced during 2011 and andethical manner.
The Group takes a formalized the expected standards of behaviour zero-tolerance approach to bribery and and conduct that were applicable to employees corruption and is committed to acting and third parties engaged on the Groups professionally, fairly and withintegrity in all our business.
The CBC contains guidance on general business dealings and relationships wherever standards of conduct, corporate hospitality and itoperates as well as implementing and gifts, bribery and corruption, conicts of interest, enforcing effective systems tocounter bribery.
condentiality, fraud, political and charitable donations, employment, health and safety, The workplace relationships with third parties, the community Health and safety andthe environment.
All parts of the CBC are Dialight is committed to achieving and maintaining underpinned by a number of supporting policies.
the highest reasonable standards of health and www.
com Governance Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 41 Governance safety across all Group companies and operating During 2012 work began on the creation of a locations so as to provide a safe environment global health and safety management system 61,726 tonnes foremployees, customers and visitors.
Although withappropriate process documents and template Total CO saved by Dialight customers 2 ultimate responsibility for health and safety and the forms.
This was part of a wider objective to operation of the Groups Health and Safety policy achieve OHSAS 18001 accreditation at all lies with the Group Chief Executive and the Board, Groupmanufacturing and R&D locations.
Basic this responsibility is delegated toplant managers, requirements of this standard will be rolled out ateach of the Groups facilities, or nominated inthe UK and then shared with Denmark and Senior Management, atallother locations.
Germany as a first step before being introduced 5,900,177 inthe rest of the Group.
Communication of safety Existing Health and safety procedures and initiatives now takes place in a monthly publication Total $ saved by Dialight customers systems are designed to: in energy usage called Safety Matters.
Whilst this currently only represents work done in the UK, the intention is to - run training programmes for employees on health and safety matters whilst roll itout to all locations so that all employees can benefit from sharing and discussing those actions reinforcing the importance of a culturewhich is focused on safe taken in the various regions of the Group.
workingprocedures: Employees Dialights culture is one of openness, honesty and - monitor and assess work proceduresand implement changes where required: accountability and recognition that all employees play a part in delivering the Groups business - communicate with all employees performance in a safe and efficient environment.
todevelop a work culture which recognisesthe importance of health All decisions relating to selection for employment and promotion are based on ability and merit.
Dialight values the contribution of its employees The Group Health and Safety Committee oversees the operation of Group health and highly and it is a recognised facet of the Dialight culture that employees are encouraged to take safety arrangements as well asconsidering andagreeing objectives and standards for responsibility and exercise their own initiative forthe overall good of the Group.
The Dialight implementation and action worldwide.
This includes representatives from each of the Excellence Award is designed to recognise these events and to give the individuals involved Groups locations as well as the Group Health and Safety officer and is chaired by the a boost to their morale by acknowledging their extraordinary service.
Individuals who take the Company Secretary with the minutes of meetings being sent to the Board.
Areport time and trouble to write articles promoting Dialights activities are also recognised onhealth and safety matters is included inthe monthly reports submitted to the Group Chief throughthe Dialight Author Award.
Executive by the regional management and health and safety performance is also a standing agenda item at Dialight Board meetings.
