Y T E F A S & H T L A E H O U E R L E P N O V E I Corporate and social responsibility Growing our business responsibly We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner and we strive to ensure that we continue to operate responsibly and deliver the excellent service upon which our business depends.
Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director Introduction Code of conduct We are committed to meeting the needs of our clients, Our Code of Conduct ensures that all staff are aware of shareholders and engaging all our employees whilst the principles that govern how we operate in the business considering the impact of our activities on the communities environment and explains the standards of behaviour that and environment in which we work.
all our employees are expected to adhere to.
Within Dignity, Corporate Services Director, Richard Portman, The Code of Conduct states that all clients should be is accountable for corporate and social responsibility and supported during the funeral arrangements, at the under this remit identifies major issues and reports these service or when choosing a memorial or funeral plan in to his fellow Board members.
We should be compassionate and caring: pay attention to detail: spend as much time as the Management and accountability client needs: be open and straightforward and keep in The governing principles of Dignity are that we are here to regular contact with the client.
help people at one of the most difficult times of their lives and we do this with compassion, respect, openness and Our Code of Conduct is also reinforced in a staff handbook, care.
Our objective is to be the company that everyone Helping our clients every step of the way, which is given knows they can trust in their time of need.
to all new employees working in our funeral locations.
The aim of the brochure is to embed all new employees into the The flat management structure of Dignity means that local Dignity culture and to remind existing members of staff of management are empowered to make decisions that provide the standards of behaviour and attitudes that are expected quick and effective solutions to the needs of their clients, of them.
A similar brochure, Serving our communities businesses and the communities they serve.
Only four per is provided to our staff working at our crematoria.
cent of our employees are based at our Head Office in Sutton Coldfield where they perform such necessary business The Code of Conduct is also published on the Dignity plc tasks as finance, IT, HR and purchasing.
This approach investor website www.
demonstrates our commitment to providing staff in locations where they can directly help and support our clients.
We adhere to the Bribery and Corruption Act of 2010 and have policies and procedures to prevent bribery.
Our values, which are ensconced in our governing principles, are a fundamental part of our culture.
By living these values, we ensure that we operate in a responsible way and that we deliver the excellent service upon which our business depends.
Our CSR approach Our guiding principles We foster a responsible culture: We make our clients feel confident in us so that they are reassured they are being served by responsible individuals working for a responsible company.
Making a positive Building trust Dignity has been identified by the FTSE Group in its FTSE4Good with all our impact on our initiative as a company that is working towards environmental stakeholders communities sustainability, developing positive relationships with stakeholders Striving for and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
Meeting our excellence in responsibilities everything to our clients, We build trust and respect: we do suppliers & We build trust and respect with everyone touched by our partners business operations our clients, our colleagues, our suppliers, trade associations, local authorities and members of the communities we serve.
Everyone at Dignity understands that at all times they are an ambassador for the Company and that the future success of the business depends on its reputation.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 22 | R P O R N U M O E N T S E I T I N U M M O C R U O Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Our corporate responsibility programme focuses on developing our people, creating a culture of workplace safety, promoting environmental sustainability and making a positive impact on the communities we serve.
Our CSR commitments Our people Principle Business benefits Measuring performance We value our people and understand, We train and develop our staff to enable Dignity measures employment applications respect and value personal and cultural them to fulfil their potential, giving them and appointments to ensure that we comply differences.
Dignity is committed to high the skills to be able to meet and exceed with all employment legislation.
A record is standards of employment practice and our clients expectations.
The development kept of training courses attended by each aims to encourage, retain and develop and retention of our people enables us to employee and this is analysed to help successful employees.
continue to improve our operations and develop future training requirements.
the quality of the service we provide to our clients.
Health & safety Principle Business benefits Measuring performance Our business is conducted at all times We have created a culture of workplace Proactively, health and safety is monitored in such a way as to ensure as far as is safety so that our staff understand and via quarterly return analysis, premises reasonably practical, the health, safety and abide by legislation and guidelines ensuring inspections, health surveillance, line welfare of all our employees and all persons their own health and safety and that of their manager observations of how tasks are who may be attending our premises.
Maintaining our performed and regular reports to the Board.
physical assets minimises the risk of injury Investigating accidents, collation and analysis and helps us to preserve the integrity of of statistics and ill-health investigation our operations.
reactively monitors health and safety.
Our environment Principle Business benefits Measuring performance We are committed to maintaining the We promote environmental issues and Dignity submits its carbon data to the quality of the environment in which we all sustainability, continually seeking new Carbon Disclosure Project, a not-for-profit live and we aim to reduce the impact of initiatives that enable us to become more organisation that measures disclosures our operations so that we act in an efficient, reduce operational costs and from thousands of organisations across environmentally friendly manner.
minimise the impact of our business the worlds major economies.
Our communities Principle Business benefits Measuring performance We are committed to making a difference Making a positive contribution to the local All funds raised for our corporate charity to our clients and to improving the welfare communities we serve is embedded in our are recorded in detail and can be easily of all who live in the communities we serve.
corporate culture and is enthusiastically cross-referenced as deposits go into a supported by our staff.
Building closer specific bank account.
Therefore, the amount relationships with the communities we of money being raised can be compared serve helps us to promote our business with previous years and this process and gain a greater understanding of our facilitates funds being allocated to the clients and local needs.
geographical region that generated them.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 | Corporate and social responsibility continued Employee service Employee ratio % We are committed to high standards of employment practice and aim to encourage, retain and develop successful employees.
Less than 1 year 13% Male 50% 1 4 years 27% Female 50% 5 9 years 27% 10 19 years 23% Over 20 years 10% The courses provided by our Training Department are Our people assessed via feedback from delegates and line managers with a view to guaranteeing that they are relevant and add We are committed to high standards of employment practice value to the contribution made by each employee.
and aim to encourage, retain and develop successful employees.
During the past twelve months the Training Department has launched Identity and personal effects training.
This is Our employees are critical to the continued success of designed as a 1:1 course to ensure our rigorous procedures Dignity and staff turnover is low.
A third of our staff have are followed in all branches.
A new Funeral quotation over 10 years service.
training course has been developed and has been trialled as a one day course for managers to deliver.
The department As in previous years there continues to be a broadly equal has also developed a new Overview of making funeral split of male and female staff.
This will be trialled in four trading regions during 2013.
The Training Department has continued The Davies Report to concentrate on providing skills and refresher training for We fully support the principal recommendations of the our Funeral Service Arrangers by delivering the Bringing Davies Report encouraging the increase in the number of the deceased into our care and Spending time with the women on the Board of Directors.
During 2012, the Board deceased courses.
met the target it had set itself of having 20 per cent female representation on the Board.
Of the 27 senior managers To help embed a health and safety culture at Dignity, within Dignity, 25 per cent are female.
728 members of staff have completed a Manual handling course and 31 employees have completed Ladder training.
Training and development Dignitys investment in training enables our staff to provide Our on the job training concentrates on a buddy system our clients with the highest standards of service and care.
where an experienced member of the team provides new operational staff with guidance on the responsibilities of their Dignity has a number of training centres around the UK and role, our professional practices and company procedures in provides employees with both in-house and external training addition to demonstrating our commitment to being a client programmes.
External training includes both relevant job focused organisation.
training and tutoring for professional qualifications including the National Association of Funeral Directors NAFD Dignity provides additional support to staff development Diploma in Funeral Directing and Membership of the British through its Welfare Trust, which provides funds for Institute of Embalming.
Dignity has five members of staff professional training and hardship grants.
The trust has who are accredited NAFD tutors and three British Institute approximately 1.6 million available for future use.
of Embalming BIE training specialists.
During the past year, seven Dignity employees achieved recognised qualifications Recognising achievement with the NAFD.
Dignity has budgeted to reward its loyal staff with long service awards totalling approximately 225,000 in 2013.
Dignitys Training Department also provides a number of management development courses covering areas such as Promoting diversity Business Planning, Financial Analysis, Recruitment Skills Within Dignity there is no discrimination on the grounds of and Presentation Skills.
gender, race, religion, age or sexual orientation in terms of recruitment or career advancement.
We encourage colleagues to show respect and understanding to each other and prejudice of any kind will not be tolerated.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 24 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Key developments in 2012 2,000 33% 225,000 Approximately 2,000 delegates A third of Dignitys employees have Dignity has budgeted to reward its loyal attended training courses facilitated over ten years service.
staff with long service awards totalling by Dignitys Training Department in approximately 225,000 in 2013. the last twelve months.
20% Dignity has met the target it has set itself 99.9% of having 20 per cent female representation 99.9 per cent of clients that respond on the Board of Directors.
to our survey thought that our staff were respectful.
Our actions during the year We enable our people to excel Dignitys investment in training enables our staff to reach their full potential and gives them the skills to provide our clients with the highest standards of service.
Below: Michelle Hales, Crematorium Manager and Ella Arundell, Memorial Consultant at Bentley Crematorium.
Bottom: Seamus Sharkey, Gardener, Lancaster & Morecambe Crematorium.
We value our people and recognise achievements We are committed to high standards of employment practice and aim to encourage, retain and develop successful employees.
Above: Jennie Myers, Funeral Director, L Fulcher, Bury St Edmunds.
Below right: Kay Jessop, Funeral Service Arranger, C & A Reed, Sheffield.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 | Corporate and social responsibility continued Health and Safety training number Effective health and safety is vital to Dignity and 14 a key priority of the Directors.
Our operations are conducted at all times to ensure, as far as is 110 reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare 179 of all our employees and all persons who may be attending our premises.
0 20 40 60 80 1 00 120 140 160 180 Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 14 Employees with IOSH qualification: 110 Employees with CIEH qualification: 179 Recruitment Dignity has 14 managers with qualifications from the A detailed job description identifying key responsibilities National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and and competencies for each role in addition to a personal Health NEBOSH.
Within this group there are also 10 that specification for the ideal applicant have been developed to possess the NEBOSH Fire Certificate.
These enable the interviewer to assess each candidates suitability for the role to which they have applied.
Dignity also has 110 managers or officers that have successfully completed the Institution of Occupational When interviewing for management positions competency Safety and Health IOSH course.
based interviews are held and candidates are expected to be able to clearly demonstrate their experience and expertise There are also 179 employees that have completed the during the selection process.
Chartered Institute of Environmental Health CIEH Working Safely one-day course.
Engaging our staff Dignity publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, Dignity Effective health and safety management Express, which is supplemented by monthly news bulletins Health and safety performance is measured in two ways.
to keep all employees and pensioners informed of what is happening within the organisation.
Dignity Express enables Proactive monitoring the Directors and employees to share objectives, best Health and safety is proactively monitored via quarterly practice and news in a cost effective manner.
return analysis, premises inspections, health surveillance, line manager observations of how tasks are performed and regular reports to the Board of Directors: and Health and Safety Reactive monitoring Effective health and safety management continues to be vital Investigating accidents, collation and analysis of statistics to Dignity and a key priority of the Directors.
Our operations and ill-health investigation reactively monitors health are conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as far and safety.
as is reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of all our employees and all persons who may be attending our premises.
Dignity has a full-time Health and Safety Manager who is dedicated to these issues and is supported by a Health & Safety Officer.
Regional Health & Safety Officers operate in each of the geographical funeral trading areas.
Dignitys head office, crematoria and manufacturing facility also each have their own manager with responsibility for Health and Safety.
The majority of these managers and officers have qualifications from the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 26 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Key developments in 2012 303 200 303 members of staff have now completed There are now 200 health and safety a health and safety training course.
co-ordinators embedded across the business.
19% 728 We have seen a 19 per cent reduction in the 728 Dignity employees have attended the number of accidents reported over the last Manual Handling training course during the five years.
Our actions during the year We continue to develop training initiatives Dignitys Training Department provides a variety of role specific courses to help reinforce the understanding each employee has of their role and ensures policies and procedures are followed.
Right: Lisa Gilbert, Head of Human Resources.
We are improving our health and safety performance across our operations Dignity is committed to the prevention of accidents.
Procedures are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure that staff minimise any risks associated with their role.
Left: Ian Best, Cremator Technician, Wyre Forest Crematorium & Cemetery, Worcestershire.
We are committed to providing accessible and enhanced facilities for families Dignity is dedicated to providing facilities that provide the highest level of comfort and ease of access for those visiting our premises.
Right: Disabled parking and hearing loop facilities are just two of the facilities designed to help visitors to Wyre Forest Crematorium.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 | Corporate and social responsibility continued Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern for Dignity and all areas of the business operate in accordance with the Groups environmental policy.
We recognise the impact of our operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce this and operate in an environmentally friendly manner.
Submission to Carbon Disclosure Project Environmental sustainability 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern for Dignity and all areas Scope 1 15,202 16,798 15,005 15,875 16,048 15,992 of the business operate in accordance with the Groups Scope 2 7,388 6,938 8,366 10,923 10,633 10,351 environmental policy.
We recognise the impact of our operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce Total 22,590 23,736 23,371 26,798 26,681 26,343 this and operate in an environmentally friendly manner.
All figures are metric tonnes of CO equivalent.
Dignity does not make any 2 scope 3 disclosures.
The return for 2012 will be made in May 2013.
Our business continues to have a low environmental impact and its activities are not expected to give rise to any Sustainable sources significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility in East Yorkshire has ISO 14001 accreditation, an internationally accepted Dignity and its employees undertake to act whenever standard for an effective Environmental management system necessary to meet or exceed the standards of current that is designed to address the balance between maintaining environmental legislation and we continue to review the profitability and reducing environmental impact.
policies, systems and services to this end.
All waste generated is properly disposed of in accordance with Our coffins are manufactured using raw materials that are current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste sourced from well-managed and sustainable sources.
97 per wherever this is practical.
cent of the coffins manufactured by Dignity are from Forest Stewardship Council FSC accredited timber.
Minimising our impact on the local environment Dignity has invested approximately 7.4 million in its Reducing energy consumption crematoria to conform to the government directive to reduce We now have 767 smart meters installed at our premises to mercury emissions from crematoria by 50 per cent before help reduce our energy consumption.
This figure represents the end of 2012.
85 per cent of our target, which we expect to meet in 2013.
Dignity has this specialist technology installed at 20 of its crematoria.
The installation of this equipment is now complete At the heart of local communities and has been managed so as to ensure there is no disruption to our usual services at the crematoria.
Everyone within Dignity is extremely committed to not only making a real difference to our clients but also to improving Due to this investment approximately 18,000 cremations the welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.
at Dignity crematoria were mercury abated during 2012.
To demonstrate our values and principles our staff have supported hundreds of local initiatives, good causes, clubs Wyre Forest Crematorium and Cemetery, which officially and events every year.
By listening to and understanding the opened in January 2012, has received a Green Apple Award needs of local communities our staff are able to respond by from The Green Organisation.
This is an independent, nonproviding help where it is most needed.
political, non-profit organisation that recognises environmental best practice.
Dignitys five fairground organs continue to be made available at no cost to charities and community groups across the Reducing our carbon footprint country.
The fairground organs never fail to attract crowds Dignity aims to reduce its future carbon footprint and in and during 2012 helped raise approximately 41,000.
2012 Dignity continued to submit its data to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
This is a not-for-profit organisation that During 2012, Dignity branches and the administration centre aims to improve the environment by measuring disclosures in north London have been donating their shredded paper from thousands of organisations across the worlds to Holloway Prison.
Nominated prisoners use the shredded major economies.
paper to provide bedding for some rescued chickens as part of a rehabilitation programme that sees inmates caring for the ailing animals.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 28 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Key developments in 2012 7.4 million 767 Dignity has invested approximately Dignity now has 767 smart meters installed 7.4 million in its crematoria to conform to in our premises to reduce our energy the government directive to reduce mercury consumption.
emissions from crematoria by 50 per cent before the end of 2012.
15% The data that Dignity submits to the Carbon 18,000 Disclosure Project show that the Group has Approximately 18,000 cremations at Dignity reduced its figure for metric tonnes of CO2 crematoria were mercury abated during 2012. equivalent by 15 per cent over the past five years.
Our actions during the year We are investing in the latest energy efficient technology Dignity has reduced its energy consumption by installing 767 smart meters at its premises.
Below: Environmentally friendly LED lighting has been installed at Perry Barr Crematorium, Birmingham.
We continue to promote sustainable development across the business Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern for Dignity and all areas of the business operate in accordance with the Groups environmental policy.
Dignity takes seriously the responsibility of managing global resources and endeavours to source products ethically and with consideration to the environment.
We are committed to meeting our environmental performance targets Dignity has invested approximately 7.4 million in its crematoria to conform to the government directive to reduce mercury emissions from crematoria by 50 per cent by the end of 2012.
Left: Dignity is committed to sustainability across its business.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29 | Corporate and social responsibility continued Everyone at Dignity is committed to not only making a real difference to our clients but also to improving the welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.
By listening to and understanding the needs of local communities our staff are able to respond by providing help where it is most needed.
In February, staff at A H Apps in Kent held a very successful There were many fundraising activities held nationwide for charity car wash to raise money for a local boy suffering with Marie Curie including sponsored walks, golf tournaments, Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.
The money raised helped his parachute jumps, organising stalls at fetes and taking part in family to make improvements to their home that would the Great Daffodil Appeal, where branches sold the charitys significantly improve his quality of life.
The Dignity Easter Egg Challenge continued to prove a In July, two Dignity employees from Bristol succeeded in popular community activity with staff at our funeral locations kayaking the 92 mile length of the River Wye.
The duo took and crematoria with many people participating this year four days to complete the challenge and raised 500. for the first time after being inspired by their colleagues previous efforts.
This year thousands of chocolate eggs and Dignity employees also took part in Marie Curies Blooming gifts were distributed to childrens hospitals, care homes, Great Tea Party, often adding a local delicacy to the hot hospices, MENCAP and a womens refuge.
drinks, cakes and sandwiches that were for sale.
Staff at W J Angove & Son in Falmouth have held two Tea Parties and Staff at Ginns & Gutteridge in Leicestershire encouraged raised over 400 by combining the party with a Craft Fayre local primary school children to enjoy the Olympics by at their premises featuring local artists.
The Tea Party at transporting them to the funeral location in limousines L Fulcher in Bury St Edmunds was so successful that it was so they could take advantage of the prime location as extended for two hours after the intended finishing time.
the Olympic Torch was carried past the branch.
Staff at South London Crematorium raised 200 for Marie In September, staff at Robertshaw Greenwood in Hebden Curie with an Open Day and Memorial Service and the team Bridge hosted a Bring and Buy Sale in aid of Hebden Bridge at W M Tyre & Son in Scotland raised 1,000 by climbing Disaster Fund.
In recent years the town has been subjected Goat Fell.
to torrential rainfall that has left many homes and businesses ruined due to flooding.
Staff at the branch were eager to help Over the past 12 months our staff have also continued to local people rebuild their lives and provided items that could support a variety of other charities.
be purchased for a donation to the Fund.
In North London, a team of seven cyclists took part in Dignity branches in Acton and Ealing launched a new project a 56 mile charity road trip from the capital to Brighton to in November that involves restoring and maintaining the raise funds for The Samaritans, Walking with the Wounded graves of Polish pilots and military personal that came to and British Heart Foundation.
the UK during World War II to join Britains armed forces.
In many cases the graves of these heroes would remain Steve Wallis, General Manager of the Groups pre-arranged neglected as they have no surviving family in this country.
funeral plan business and Shirley Roberts, Crematoria Regional Manager, Memorial Sales, completed the London Dignity has continued to support many grass-roots sports Marathon to raise money for Age UK and Cancer Research clubs by providing financial assistance, kit and equipment UK respectively.
in addition to sponsoring tournaments and trophies.
In many communities these clubs are the focal point for socialising Staff at Blackburns Funeral Service in Kent, accompanied by and healthy exercise and some would struggle to survive a local priest, took part in a static 24-hour cycling marathon without our help.
and raised over 800 for Teenage Cancer Trust and local youth groups.
Joseph Potts Funeral Directors in Glasgow Supporting charities raised 1,300 for Macmillan Cancer Research and Phillips During 2012, Dignity supported Marie Curie Cancer Care as Funeral Service in St Albans raised 400 for their local our corporate charity.
This extremely worthwhile organisation hospice by taking part in a Midnight Walk event.
provides high quality nursing, totally free, to give people with terminal cancer the choice of dying at home supported by The Group has made no individual charitable donations their families.
The charity also has nine hospices across greater than 2,000 in the period.
the UK and cares for approximately 30,000 patients a year.
All Dignity businesses have been matched with a local Marie Curie office so that all funds raised go to help cancer patients in their area.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 30 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Key developments in 2012 To demonstrate our values and principles 42,000 our staff support hundreds of community Dignity raised 42,000 for its corporate initiatives, local and national charities, good charity, Marie Curie Cancer Care, during 2012. causes, clubs and events every year.
41,000 Dignitys five fairground organs helped to raise approximately 41,000 in the past 12 months for a variety of charities and good causes.
Our actions during the year We continue to focus on making a difference in the local communities we serve Everyone at Dignity is committed to not only making a real difference to our clients but also to improving the welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.
Right: Children from Newton Burgoland Primary School enjoyed a great view of the Olympic Torch at Ginns & Gutteridge in Loughborough.
Our staff support hundreds of charities and good causes each year To demonstrate our values and principles ourstaff support hundreds of community initiatives, local and national charities, good causes, clubs and events every year.
Far left: David Emberson, Consultant with J W Emberson of Grimsby raised 800 for Marie Curie Cancer Care by completing the Dales Way Challenge.
Left: Shirley Roberts, Crematoria Regional Manager, Memorial Sales raised 3,600 for Cancer Research UK by completing the London Marathon.
We are proud to support Marie Curie Cancer Care as our corporate charity 2012 Each Dignity funeral location and crematoria has been linked with their local Marie Curie fundraising office so that the money they raise goes to help care for cancer patients in their community.
Right: Robert Cooksley and Garry Wooldridge of R Davies & Son in Bristol completed the 92-mile Wye River Kayak Challenge in aid of Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31 |
