Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report Dixons Retail takes its responsibility to its stakeholders and the Guidelines.
Accordingly, the Committee maintains a matrix of risks environment very seriously.
Good sustainability practices are good and opportunities that are specic to the business.
This allows us business practices and we believe that adopting good practice in this to identify our main exposures and most significant opportunities area can help us not only to do business sustainably but to achieve and to address any issues.
During the year, our priorities included our corporate objectives and fulll our business plan.
Our policies the following: in this area are designed to balance the needs of our customers, To provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, shareholders, employees and the wider community with our colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations: commercial business objectives.
To engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in the We are dedicated to reducing our carbon footprint by reducing ongoing improvement of customer service levels: energy consumption throughout our operations, minimising To improve operational energy efficiency and forward planning: and recycling waste, cutting transport emissions and reducing To reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce costs unnecessary packaging.
We seek to source products from all and raise revenue through improved waste recycling: our suppliers that meet industry standards and are as energy The provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, achieved efficient as practicable.
We continue to improve the environmental as a result of our expert technical knowledge with products performance of our own brand products throughout their life-cycle sourced from manufacturers who are audited against our by systemic integration of environmental aspects at an early stage ethical requirements: and in product design.
To add to and promote the customer proposition in relation Corporate responsibility management framework to product reuse and recycling.
The Group Finance Director, Humphrey Singer, is the Board member responsible for corporate responsibility matters.
He is supported A member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee has been by the Corporate Responsibility Committee, which comprises identied as accountable for each of these priorities.
senior executives from key business areas and is chaired by Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The Committee has established key performance indicators, The Committee met twice during the period under review and a which are discussed in more detail below.
summary of some of the key matters discussed are listed below: Business ethics Monitoring the key performance indicators: At Dixons Retail the way we do business is important to us and Assessing the reporting structures in place and determining forms part of our corporate responsibility objectives.
Our shared changes to be implemented when gathering information in values are to: respect of the key performance indicators: operate with honesty and integrity: Ongoing evaluation of the Groups risks and opportunities give outstanding service to our customers: and identication of areas where the Committee can enhance respect our colleagues: reporting or control mechanisms already in place: continually seek ways to improve performance: and Reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy: and work together to beat our competition.
Reviewing the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment upon the UK business and the internal reporting mechanisms The Dixons Retail Ethical Conduct Policy applies to all employees.
Sustainability review Customer services Dixons Retail operates in different countries, each with differing At Dixons Retail, we are proud to serve thousands of customers stakeholder needs.
Accordingly, the Groups corporate responsibility every year in our stores, over the telephone and online.
In the tough efforts are largely organised on a local level.
The Committee will be economic environment of the last few years, our customers have undertaking a review of our current initiatives during this financial looked to us to provide greater value, choice and service and we year to see how we can further improve our environmental impact have reinvigorated our business model accordingly.
Our customers and how we can share best practice and reporting across all have told us what a great shopping trip feels like and we have used this to develop our Customer Plan in a series of programmes with the our businesses.
objective of improving the shopping and post-shopping experience Our approach to corporate responsibility of our customers.
Dixons Retail seeks to identify the risks and opportunities which are most significant to its business rather than addressing a standardised agenda, in accordance with the approach to corporate responsibility contained within the Association of British Insurers 40 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Performance Review During the period under review, these programmes have included Environment the roll out of our award winning service proposition Knowhow, Dixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the the continued transformation of our store portfolio, the unveiling of a impact of its business on the environment both now and in the technology department in Harrods agship store in London and an future.
Key areas of focus continue to be: enhanced user experience for customers on our shopping websites.
energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution centres and ofces: Great customer service is key to the success of our business and fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores is measured through regular mystery shopping and exit surveys as or customers homes: well as customer feedback received via our call centre and service waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres colleagues.
The customer satisfaction measures are combined with and ofces: and key performance indicators from across operations, people and unwanted electrical equipment collected for recycling.
finance to form our scorecard.
This provides a balanced view of how we are doing and is regularly reviewed by the Committee Carbon footprint management and the Board.
Dixons Retail is committed to a carbon management programme, As part of our commitment to delivering customer service to which aims to reduce the Groups carbon footprint.
Along with all the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure that our other British businesses, for the first time we reported our emissions communications with customers are clear and that the information as part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme which we present them with is accurate and not misleading.
We maintain launched this year and have introduced several programmes to help compliance with trading standards and legal requirements.
us reduce the impact of our operations on the environment whilst Our policies and procedures integrate those standards into improving efficiency and saving costs.
A significant proportion of the our daily work.
cost savings made have been reinvested into the next phase of our energy management programme.
Supplier relationships This year as part of our sustainability review we will be monitoring Many of our electrical products are sourced through major progress on our carbon footprint reduction and the key performance international brands, which have their own strong ethical and indicators we use to encourage change across the business.
We will environmental policies in place.
be reviewing our carbon management plan to see how it can provide The Group operates an Ethical Sourcing Policy based on the Social even more positive impacts in the future.
Suppliers of our own brand products Energy management are audited prior to selection and rated on a trafc light basis.
We continue to work on reducing our environmental impact and Once approved they remain subject to regular checks and audits.
improve energy efficiency in our operations.
As part of our ongoing Green status on an audit indicates that a supplier meets or exceeds energy reduction programme, over the last 12 months we have rolled all our standards.
Amber status indicates that some of the standards out our energy reduction initiatives programme to a further 93 UK required have not been met.
Red status means that some significant stores, reducing average consumption by over 15%, as well as at failures were identied against our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards.
We have also continued to replace older lighting Our own brand product supplier audits are carried out with a view to systems with low energy light ttings which reduce energy use.
assisting our suppliers in improving their working practices.
We work This year we began installing smart energy management systems with factories where failures have been identied to improve their in all our stores, allowing us to remotely monitor and reduce our UK working practices.
Where this is not possible or no improvements energy still further.
are made, they will not be approved as a supplier, or will be delisted as appropriate.
Over 11,000 UK Dixons Retail store colleagues have undergone energy awareness training to help them better control and reduce The results of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the their energy usage.
Over the next 12 months we intend to roll out period under review are detailed below: more energy reduction and efficiency programmes, as well as reviewing and trialling several sustainable technologies in our Performance Indicators 2011 12 2010 11 stores and ofces.
Green 0 0 Amber 90 136 Red 51 75 Total factories audited 141 211 Delisted Not approved 26 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 41 Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Waste management We value and respect each colleague and endeavour to engage In addition to being good for the environment, managing waste in the their talents and abilities to the fullest extent.
We want to be most efficient way is an opportunity for our business.
Due to our work recognised as an employer of choice and aim to reward colleagues on recycling, we have been shortlisted for Retail Recycler of the Year, fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, personal development and and been nominated in the Green Business Awards 2012.
Our culture supports the discovery of new and better ways pleased to report that during the year under review we recycled more of working, two-way communication and the speedy resolution of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE and generated any concerns or queries.
more dry mixed recyclate than the previous year.
We also recognise the need to have effective leaders in place to support our competitive edge and support colleagues.
We take At Dixons Retail, we take seriously our responsibility for the electrical our responsibilities seriously and our leaders are engaged and products that we place on the market, especially when consumers focused on delivery of the Customer Plan, which will make no longer require their hardware.
In accordance with the WEEE Dixons Retail better for customers, easier for colleagues and Regulations, we provide an in-store take-back service to the public.
We also collect and recycle old equipment, free of charge, from our customers homes whilst delivering new products.
We review regularly our benets offering to colleagues to ensure these are attractive and conducive to the recruitment and retention Waste recycled as a percentage of total waste of talented people.
Through a range of share plans, we encourage 2011 12 2010 11 all colleagues to build a personal stake in the business.
UK 65% 73% Nordics 95% 91% At Dixons Retail, we work to achieve high standards in employment Not including WEEE.
We have a comprehensive suite of employment policies and procedures, which we review regularly to ensure we set out our Transport and distribution responsibilities and obligations to our colleagues clearly to remain Keeping our stores stocked with the thousands of products commercially focused and compliant with legislation in the UK.
we sell, and delivering to our customers homes, means our eet These policies include guidance on family friendly procedures of commercial vehicles is constantly transporting products around through to colleague dispute management and, of course, diversity the country.
The Group seeks to reduce the environmental impact and equal opportunities.
of delivering its products by efficient route planning to avoid The Groups policy on equal opportunities clearly demonstrates unnecessary mileage, using rail freight where appropriate, increasing our total commitment to prevent any form of discrimination in vehicle load and making use of empty vehicles on return journeys.
To that extent, we promote an open and honest This year has seen a new eet introduced in both our retail eet and environment and encourage colleagues with concerns to report home delivery eet.
This has led to an increase in our miles per gallon issues to us either directly through line managers or via the and a reduction in the CO produced per vehicle.
2 independent and condential integrity line.
Fleet carbon emissions Employee diversity Tonnes of CO produced 2011 12 2010 11 2 Colleague diversity in terms of age, gender and ethnicity remains UK home delivery eet 8,660 7,830 a key performance indicator of ours and we report on these below: UK retail eet 15,278 15,088 Nordics delivery eet 11,775 11,267 2011 12 2010 11 Total 35,713 34,185 Female 32% 28% Male 68% 72% Workplace Full-time 58% 65% Our colleagues Part-time 42% 35% At Dixons Retail, we believe that our people are at the heart Ethnic minority non-national 18% 26% of our business and they are the key to delivering excellent Aged over 50 8% 11% customer service.
We recognise the importance of listening to our colleagues as they are the face of our business and truly Data for those countries within the Group that are either required by law or have voluntarily recorded this information.
understand our customers and what they want from our company.
Therefore, we want them to ourish and we are committed to providing them with development opportunities to reach their potential.
42 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Performance Review Training and development Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries In the UK our personal and career development processes are 2011 12 2010 11 designed to ensure all our people have the skills to meet the Number of accidents or injuries reported 869 1016 requirements of their roles and to thereby contribute to our Customer Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees 42 53 Plan.
All colleagues on joining the business attend Go Live, the Data for UK and Ireland.
Group induction programme, and are assigned a unique training planfor their role.
Our learning options include face to face and Community e-Learning, all deployed via our learning management system Community involvement The Edge.
Our store colleagues have all been trained in FIVES, Our fundraising programme, Switched on Communities, continues our bespoke sales training programme, and have received further the theme of improving access to technology for disadvantaged training on service under our Knowhow brand.
Each person and disabled children, while encouraging colleagues to engage has a personal appraisal and development plan, including an with their local communities by supporting local charities.
Under the assessment of their performance together with their line manager programme our Knowhow Distribution and Repair Centre have, on at least a bi-annual basis.
through fundraising activities, raised over 24,000 for various local Employee communications and national charities.
Dixons in the UK has a comprehensive engagement programme The Group continues to support Lifelites and the e-Learning which is underpinned by a full colleague survey.
Our people are our Foundation, who work locally with colleagues to support their brand, so it is important to us to hear the voice of our colleagues fundraising efforts.
In the year ahead, the Group intends to review its and keep them engaged in the development of our business through charitable programmes to better align its objectives with colleagues executive blogs and employee forums.
We continue to keep the charitable choices.
customer at the heart of the business by constantly engaging colleagues.
We bring life to technology through regular supplier Colleagues are encouraged to support charities of their choice events and continuously improving our multiple communication and are invited to apply for a grant from The DSG international streams, which include regular town hall meetings, online open Foundation the Foundation, the Groups registered charitable discussions, sharing of best practice and regular Q&A sessions trust, to support their fundraising activities, subject to certain criteria.
directly with the Chief Executive UK & Ireland.
The charitable donations made by the Foundation in 2011 12 were 5,000 2010 11 5,000.
Health and Safety It is the policy of the Group to comply with relevant Health and Safety In the Nordics the Elkjp Group raised a total of NOK 5.8 million and Fire Safety legislation and take all reasonably practicable steps in support of the Norwegian Red Cross for their project Water for to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all employees, visitors and Life.
This was through a combination of fundraising activities by members of the public who are or may be affected by our activities.
colleagues and donations by the Elkjp Group.
Dixons Retail engenders a positive health and safety culture Key performance indicators throughout the business, taking measures to maintain a safe The performance criteria reported above are largely focused on environment for our customers and colleagues.
A comprehensive the Groups UK & Ireland and Northern European businesses which safety management system is operated throughout the business to represent 79% of Group turnover in the period.
The Committee ensure legislative requirements and best practice are adhered to.
recognises that it needs to work towards extending the use and monitoring of these performance criteria throughout the rest of Throughout the past year we have reviewed health and safety the Group, with a view to improving the reporting of the Groups standards across the Group and concentrated on reducing corporate responsibility efforts going forward.
high risk high cost accidents.
This has culminated in reducing employee accidents in the UK by 14% and a reduction of 21% in the rate per thousand employees.
We anticipate that continued root cause analysis of accidents and focused action plans are expected to see a further significant reduction in accidents in the coming year.
Health and Safety performance is reviewed by the Committee quarterly.
The Group Health and Safety Policy is reviewed and approved by the Board annually and was last reviewed in May 2012 Humphrey Singer and signed by the Group Chief Executive.
Executive Director with responsibility for Corporate Responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 43
