33 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate Responsibility Domino has a strong ethical basis to its business and we are proud of Commitment our record of responsible behaviour and business approach.
We are Domino takes very seriously our duty of care towards all persons supportive of developments to improve corporate accountability, in in our value chain, from raw material suppliers to customers.
We particular our impact on the environment, careful use of natural operate in global markets and in countries where, in some cases, there resources and care for our people and the communities in which we is a poor record in human rights.
Our policy is to audit our production operate.
Business sustainability is a strategic priority for the Group and suppliers operating in countries deemed by Maplecroft Human Rights 1 we are committed to supporting the integration of strong sustainability Risk Atlas 2011 endorsed by Sedex as high risk in areas such as principles and practices as a key element of our long-term vision.
forced or child labour and other abuses.
Preferred suppliers in high risk regions are audited by SGS, a world-leading audit and certification We have made great strides this year in efforts to become a more body, for compliance to the Domino Supplier Standard and to responsible, sustainable business.
All suppliers are contractually required to follow the Domino Supplier Standard, which mandates the minimum expected Completing our second annual Carbon Disclosure Project submittal ethical standards, including anti-bribery.
and increasing our Disclosure Score from 58 to 63.
Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 4 per cent against our To date, 35 per cent of Group production suppliers have been 2010 baseline.
screened for potential human rights violations, the majority of whom Increasing our internal monitoring by using a set of KPIs based on are in high risk regions.
This initial work identified four organisations the Global Reporting Initiative.
that were at risk of violation of collective bargaining rights but Formally beginning the process of analysing the life cycle impacts of pleasingly none that were at risk for use of child or forced labour.
Corrective actions have been implemented at each of the Raising over 60,000 for charitable causes around the Group.
Domino Values As a result of Domino intervention, there are also tangible Everything we do at Domino is driven by our set of seven core values: improvements at many of our other suppliers.
For example, at one of Clarity and Focus, Commitment, Energy and Urgency, Listening, our suppliers in China an SGS audit highlighted the need to improve Honesty, Team Spirit, and Positive Attitude.
These values drive us to employee welfare, particularly in the provision of recreational areas.
be at our best in every decision and business relationship.
Part of being An employee restaurant has now been set up to provide a clean and at our best includes our commitment to sustainability.
comfortable area for employees to take breaks.
Also at a supplier in Poland, the senior management team have embraced the sustainability Clarity and Focus agenda following presentations by Domino during business reviews.
In 2011, we formalised our approach to environmental and ethical They now have a Code of Conduct and can demonstrate an ongoing challenges with the creation of our Corporate Responsibility Policies.
improvement programme covering all elements of Corporate This year we have built on these firm foundations through Responsibility.
appointment of a Corporate Responsibility Manager to raise the profile of our sustainability agenda and by monitoring a set of KPIs, Dominos commitment to and investment in sound environmental based on the Global Reporting Initiative.
practices mean we frequently exceed demanding governmental, industry and company standards and regulations.
We are committed to In the current business environment it is important that every business minimising the consumption of natural resources and energy and the acts to address its corporate responsibilities, both to manage future creation of waste.
The innovative design of our V220i thermal transfer risks and to seek out new sources of competitive advantage.
To create overprinter has enabled a 50 per cent reduction in weight and up to a greater focus on our environmental impacts we are now working on 60per cent efficiency in printer ribbon consumption, whilst advanced systems to assess the life cycle impacts of our key products as part of energy saving software in our A420i ink jet printer enables it to the design phase.
Product architecture, determined at an early stage automatically shut down when our customers production lines stop.
of the design, is the point at which the life cycle environmental impact 1 Supplier ethical data exchange a not for profit membership organisation whose purpose is framed.
This analysis will deliver tools that provide a Life Cycle isto drive improvement in responsible and ethical business practices in global supply chains.
Analysis for our product concepts for future printer developments by measuring the impact of raw materials, manufacturing, distribution, use and end of life disposal.
A v e r a g e e n g i n e e D r i o n m g i n p 34 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued Group employees by gender Charity donations Q Female Q Domino UK 77% 23% Q Male Q Domino China 94% 6% Q Domino India Q Domino Germany Q Domino North America Q TDI Site Portugal Q Other We have removed all chemicals currently on the ECs list of Awards, recognitions and commitments Substances of Very High Concern and we act ahead of legislation wherever possible.
In 2012, we removed n-Methylpyrrolidone from our ink products ahead of EC requirements under REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals Regulation 1907:2004 EC.
Domino aims to employ a workforce reflecting the diversity of our customers and communities.
Our employment policies, including a commitment to equal opportunity, are designed to attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
In 2012, FTSE Group confirmed that Domino Printing Sciences Energy and Urgency plc has met stringent social and environmental criteria, and We believe in driving positive change and action in pursuit of our is positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible sustainability agenda.
Dominos fluids plants in the UK and USA have business practice.
now completed their 11th year with ISO14001 accreditation for environmental management and improvement and the China fluids Carbon Disclosure Project plant its eighth year.
In 2011, we completed our first submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project, achieving a Disclosure Score of 58 included Overall, fuel, electricity and emissions saving efforts in our four key were the Cambridge, Liverpool, Gurnee, and Shanghai sites.
This 1 plants across the Group have reduced our Greenhouse Gas Emissions year, we increased our score to 63 and added business units in by 288 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
This represents a 4 per Germany, France, India and Benelux as well as Group companies cent decrease from our 2010 baseline.
Mectec and Domino Laser into our submission, thereby increasing disclosure to include 80 per cent of total Group headcount.
This We have recorded an additional US site in our waste data this year so important activity helped us identify areas for improvement in how our total waste footprint has increased but we are recycling 12 per our business contributes to and is influenced by climate change.
We cent more and have put in place a number of initiatives to improve this are committed to both increasing our disclosures in these areas and even further.
For example, in our Group Headquarters our employeegrowing in our understanding of our own impacts.
led Green Team devised a waste recycling scheme to eliminate use of landfill for waste disposal.
Our Liverpool fluids plant is also no longer Sedex using landfill and has established an innovative solution to fully recycle Domino is a B-member of Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data hazardous ink solvent waste.
B-membership means we provide ethical data for all our sites where we employ people.
Becoming a member of Sedex is a Summary of Environmental Impacts at Baseline Sites sign of Dominos willingness to share information and to utilise this Impact Details Units 2010 2011 2012 Variance information to help manage and improve ethical standards.
Greenhouse Gas Scope 1, 2 and 3 2 Emissions business travel tCOe 5,711 5,066 5,483 -4% 2 Waste Hazardous tonnes 212 NA 315 48% Non-hazardous tonnes 431 NA 438 2% Recycling rate 57% 69% 1 Cambridge UK, Liverpool UK fluids plant, China fluids plant and US fluids plant.
2 2011 figures do not include scope 3 business travel emissions.
o r G o r f o e u s p s i o n a l s i n t h e U K 35 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 2012 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by site 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 The four sites reported above measure our progress since 2010.
In Honesty addition this year we have increased the number of sites we monitor Our stakeholders expect us to operate our business with honesty for carbon emissions and waste generation by 11 taking us to a total of and transparency.
Our comprehensive Ethics Policy requires ethical 15 sites monitored our businesses based in Benelux, China, France, dealings with our customers and suppliers, employees, and the general two channel sites in Germany, India, Korea, Mexico, USA, Sweden, public.
In addition, our whistle-blowing policy allows individuals to Portugal, our laser manufacturing site in Germany Laser and three raise concerns confidentially and all comments received are reviewed sites in the UK Purex, Liverpool and Cambridge.
covers 93 per cent of the Group based on employee numbers.
We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and align ourselves Summary of Environmental Impacts across the Group with all relevant legislation.
Impact Details Units 2012 All customers are treated fairly.
Domino prohibits dialogue with GHG Emissions Total direct tCO e 5,459 2 competitors regarding prices, customers or territories.
All claims made Scope 2 tCO e 4,434 2 in advertisements must be ethical and fully supportable.
Scope 3 tCO e 1,300 2 Waste Hazardous tonnes 784 We are proud of our reputation for high quality products.
We never Non-hazardous tonnes 547 wilfully conceal defective work or make untrue claims regarding Energy use Stationary fuel MWh 5,671 Electricity and district heating cooling MWh 8,568 products.
Domino manufacturing plants in the UK, USA and China, as Vehicle fuels MWh 15,722 well as subsidiaries in the UK, Spain, France and Benelux have all been 3 Water Purchased water M 13,301 certified to ISO9001 for over 14 years, with Wiedenbach and our subsidiary in India achieving certification more recently.
Listening Domino strives to listen to and effectively engage with stakeholders, We participate in industry groups and support important initiatives, particularly employees and customers.
They are crucial to our success.
such as the Carbon Disclosure Project, to increase our knowledge and We listen and seek to respond in a positive manner.
For example, this awareness, and allow full transparency of our sustainability efforts.
year Domino Group company Wiedenbach launched new heavy metal and halogen free inks.
These inks enable customers in the electronics Team Spirit industry to meet requirements placed upon them by the EC Waste We are committed to maintenance of a safe and healthy working Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive and the Restriction on environment for all employees.
Our Health and Safety Policy is the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic published across all our businesses and we operate an established Equipment RoHS Directive.
process for annual reviews in all subsidiaries.
The Board receives a report on compliance with the standard across the Group as a part of We ensure open discussion with our employees on the status of the its review of corporate governance.
This year we achieved ISO18001 business in all our operations.
In addition, we run internal annual certification of our Gurnee Illinois fluids plant ensuring that all three surveys of how employees view company management.
Our 2012 of our main ink plants are certificated to this Health and Safety survey demonstrated employees desire for more personal management system.
Around the Group, 90 accidents were reported development opportunities, and we have planned more training this year in the UK, North America, France, Germany, Korea and activity in response.
China, which is an average of approximately 0.1 accidents person, a decrease of 23 on the 2011 figure of 113.
GHG emissions tonnes CO e 2 Cambridge China France Germany India Korea Mexico North America Mectec Purex Wiedenbach Liverpool Benelux Portugal Laser 36 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued 1 2012 Waste by site 1 Chart presents sites that Q Landfill currently track the 600 Q Recycling relevant data.
Q Incineration 500 Q Compost 400 300 200 100 We do not tolerate misconduct or harassment in any form and will Working in the Community investigate all incidents and take appropriate action.
Our Grievance Practical activities such as soldering, cutting and welding are Procedure ensures that Dominos employees have an opportunity to increasingly common in the classroom, lab and workshop but the raise formally with management any grievances relating to their job hazardous dust and fumes generated are not always considered.
or complaints regarding the Group or any of its employees and to Purex has worked closely with several local authorities to identify ensure these are dealt with promptly and fairly by the appropriate sources of potential hazards in their schools and develop cost level of management.
effective solutions to the problem.
Investing in Staff Domino is proud of its employee-run Social Clubs, who organise This year saw the initiation of a wide reaching quality training community activities outside of the workplace for employees and programme following restructuring at Domino Group company their families, such as sight-seeing trips, theatre and cinema outings, Wiedenbach.
Workshops with all operational employees have or team-building and sporting events.
For instance, in 2012 Domino enabled them to understand all processes at the site.
This has Canada held its fourth Annual Camping Retreat.
Our employees tell enhanced workforce flexibility as staff now have the knowledge us that they value these outings and the opportunities to socialise tooperate in different job roles.
with colleagues outside of the workplace.
Our employee benefits package is designed to respond to the needs Positive Attitude of staff at every stage of life.
This includes standard provisions such Domino seeks to take the lead in cross-industry collaboration as well as annual leave, bonus schemes, parental and sick leave, and service as sharing our expertise with regulators.
We are active committee awards.
Each Group company then tailors its particular benefits members in the British Coatings Federation and European Printing Ink scheme to serve the specific needs of its employees and includes Association.
We also advise government as a member of the Health everything from private medical insurance, to childcare vouchers, and and Safety Executives stakeholder panel on the Global Harmonisation more.
In the UK where the Groups shares are listed, we provide a System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals.
Share Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn schemes, allowing qualifying employees to purchase shares.
Domino recognises that training and development is essential for all its employees, to support them in their job roles, to meet team goals, to We work best as an organisation when we work together with our increase job satisfaction, and to meet the objectives of the Domino local communities.
Domino charges all employees with an obligation Group.
Each staff member is formally appraised on an annual basis, to ensure that their personal behaviour reflects an attitude of and in combination with an exchange of views that takes place community improvement.
We have excellent engagement with between job holders and their immediate manager, appropriate charitable and philanthropic causes throughout the world.
Across the personal training plans are devised.
In 2012, employees received Group we have donated over 60,000 this year to charitable causes.
training on issues such as corporate induction, environmental Domino China gave a portion of their donations to Hope Primary awareness, product knowledge, sales and personal skills, and health Schools in some of the poorest rural regions in the country.
At our Cambridge Headquarters this training averaged Germany participated in a charity programme with one of our logistics at 2.57 days per person.
providers, the bonus points we collected with them were all donated to World Vision.
At Domino India, the Green Team organised company-wide participation in MillionTreesGurgaon, a community effort to plant a million trees.
Waste generated tonnes Cambridge China France Germany Korea Mexico North America Purex 37 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 1 2012 Water use by site 1 Chart presents sites that 6,000 currently track the relevant data.
5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 Our commitment to the Domino Values is driving us to achieve our sustainability strategy.
We also recognise that sustainability requires an unrelenting long-term commitment to operate the business according to a strong set of values and ethical practices.
This is our aim and through increasing visibility of our performance we are looking to enhance engagement throughout our value chain: new employee volunteer initiatives, increased sustainability in our product lines, and improved efficiencies in business operations.
Nigel Bond Group Managing Director 10 December 2012 We are committed to minimising the consumption of natural resources and energy and the creation of waste.
Advanced energy saving software in our A420i ink jet printer enables it to automatically shut down when our customers production lines stop 3 Water use by site M Cambridge China France Germany India Korea North America Mectec Purex Benelux Laser
