Corporate social responsibility report This section describes our responsibilities and provides an insight into our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR activity.
Our commitment to CSR means that we consider our impact on the environment, our employees, the communities in which we operate and all other stakeholders in everything we do.
We operate our business responsibly, from the way we run our head office and commissaries and how we stipulate our franchisees run their stores, to how we support our local communities and the products we source.
Community matters On a local store level, our franchisees have given to many local In 2012, Dominos franchisees continued to be at the heart of their charities by donating pizza, money or their time to a wealth of communities.
It was a significant year, full of landmark events such different projects.
Our franchisees continue to amaze us by showing as the Queens Diamond Jubilee and the London Olympics.
Our how passionate they are about their local communities and charities stores in and around London enjoyed supporting the Games and therein and we have reported on many of their achievements during were on hand to feed the athletes and spectators, and many stores the year via our internal magazine, Slice.
elsewhere participated in the party atmosphere that prevailed in the In England, one franchisee in Essex abseiled down the water tower communities throughout the United Kingdom during this time.
in Harlow to raise money for vulnerable and elderly people in his region.
He successfully completed the task and raised over 3,000.
Our main charity partners remained Special Olympics Great Britain In Cornwall, a team member cycled all the way from Penzance to SOGB in the UK and Barretstown in the Republic of Ireland, as well Dominos head office in Milton Keynes, to raise 1,500 for Help as our continued partnership with Pennies, the electronic charity for Heroes.
In 2012, the Northern Irelands Childrens Hospice NICH was added to our list of benefactors, receiving 75% of all donations made In Wales, Dominos celebrated 15 years in the region and a in Northern Ireland via the Pennies scheme, which during the year community party was held with Miss Wales joining in the fun at equated to 5,000.
SOGB received a 25,000 corporate donation the first Welsh Dominos store based in Cardiff, alongside a local and over 130,000 from our customers via the Pennies scheme, Brownie group and representatives from the Welsh Guards.
Our with Barretstown receiving 15,000 donation from Dominos and franchisees in Wales decided to support the Welsh Guards our franchisees in the Republic of Ireland.
Afghanistan Appeal and raised 1,500 for the Appeal, by donating a percentage of sales from Texas BBQ pizzas statistically the most In December 2012, we joined forces with ITV to support the Text popular pizza in Wales!
Santa Appeal, which raises funds over the festive period for six worthy charities, namely, Age UK, Whizz Kids, The Anthony Nolan In Scotland, our stores again took part in raising money for the STV Trust, Carers UK, Marie Curie Cancer Care and Together for Short Appeal in support of six major Scottish charities Aberlour, Action Lives.
Our customers showed their support for this appeal and for Children, Barnardos Scotland, Children 1st, Save the Children through Pennies donated over 39,000 in just under six weeks.
Scotland and One Parent Families Scotland and a total of 6,000 was raised.
Stores in the region also raised money for Alzheimers At our head office in Milton Keynes, our staff continued to be Scotland.
One group of 19 employees climbed Ben Nevis and one pro-active in the local community and donated their time to work employee cycled from Dominos in Aberdeen to Dominos in with local charities.
Ride High a charity supporting disadvantaged Edinburgh.
Collectively they raised almost 3,000 for this children, HULA Home for Unwanted and Lost Animals and the worthycause.
Milton Keynes Foodbank all benefitted from our support in 2012.
Volunteering activities ranged from the transformation of a suite of In Ireland, our franchisee in Coleraine supported the Coleraine High rooms for HULA to participation in the Milton Keynes Sleepout, an School World Challenge and during the year raised over 2,500 by initiative aimed at raising money for local vulnerable and elderly in running pizza for a 1 days, with all the money going to the school.
His support has helped to fund the students expedition to Malawi, to participate in a rural community project.
case study Donate-a-days Our staff continue to be pro-active in the local community and donate their time to work with local charities.
HULA Home for Unwanted and Lost Animals and the Milton Keynes Foodbank both benefitted from our support in 2012.
At HULA, our employees helped to create an animal hospital and handover area by spending time cleaning, painting and tidying the result was a completely refurbished area, fit for purpose and a very happy charity.
At the Foodbank, our team members spent the day making up food parcels and serving visitors to the centre.
They were given an educational tour of the site and shown just how the Foodbank works.
28 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements In Germany, our store count continues to increase and currently sits at 18.
These stores have fully immersed themselves into the case study Dominos way of life and into their communities.
In December, a new head office and store was opened in Dsseldorf a large celebration party took place to ensure the local residents knew that Dominos was in town.
The opening event was a success with people turning up in large numbers to visit the new store and pupils from a local school were given a lesson in how to make a pizza.
As well as the stories mentioned, there are many more examples of charitable activities or local community support taking place in our stores each week.
Dozens of school visits took place in 2012, with pupils visiting their local store for a lesson in pizza making.
On more than one occasion stores were invited to visit their local school to carry out a pizza demonstration to children and teachers.
We continue to run a Delivering More programme that recognises the efforts of our team members who have gone above and beyond in their duties.
These random acts of kindness or gestures of goodwill are recognised with a cheque for 500, a certificate and a badge.
In 2012, the winners included a store manager who jumped into a river to save someone from drowning and two groups who gave their time to Keep Britain Tidy initiatives, helping to restore parks in their local communities.
Pennies As a Company we are passionate about people and about Since our partnership with Pennies began in developing those all important relationships with our customers, 2010, it has gone from strength to strength, with our staff, our suppliers, our charities and our stakeholders.
over a million customers donating their spare Developing Relationships change online in its first year.
In 2012, Special In 2012, Dominos partnered with the Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Olympics Great Britain SOGB received over Service, in a programme to help encourage customers to think more about fire safety in the home.
The project involved Dominos 130,000 in donations, with the Northern providing a free pizza voucher to every customer who agreed to have Irelands Childrens Hospice NICH receiving a home fire safety check.
Carrying out these checks, especially in 5,000 from just 20 stores in the region.
high risk areas, is vitally important to the Fire Service.
These checks help to educate local residents who are then provided with fully fitted We added the Pennies facility to our iPhone app this smoke alarms and carbon monoxide monitors.
Such initiatives can year and saw an incredible 18% rise in donation figures.
help to reduce the incidence of fires and ultimately saves lives.
We are very grateful to our customers for their generosity and engagement with this scheme.
Dominos store in Llanelli joined forces with The Wales Air In December 2012, Dominos joined forces with ITV to Ambulance to act as a collection point for the donation of unwanted support the Text Santa Appeal, which raises funds for books.
The Wales Air Ambulance charity shop located in the town six worthy charities, namely Age UK, Whizz Kids, The benefitted from the donation of these books, with all funds raised Anthony Nolan Trust, Carers UK, Marie Curie Cancer from the sale of them going to the charity.
Care and Together for Short Lives.
Our customers The over 70s are not generally Dominos customers, but this does showed their passion for this appeal as in just six weeks not mean that they are a section of the community that we forget they raised over 39,000. about.
In 2012, several projects undertaken in Buckinghamshire and Essex proved that the elderly actually do love pizza and want to taste In 2013, we will be selecting a new charity partner and learn more about it.
We will retain our partnerships with SOGB and NICH, who will continue to receive Environment Going the extra mile a percentage of the funds, but we plan to choose In 2012, several of our franchisees introduced electric cars into their a new charity partner to work with too.
This is an fleet of delivery vehicles.
The Renault Twizy is becoming an exciting opportunity for us to help spread the pennies increasingly popular choice for Dominos franchisees.
economical and environmentally friendly, so makes a perfect pizza delivery vehicle.
In Germany, the teams flagship store in Dsseldorf opened with a fleet of branded Twizys which caught the eye of local people and helped to spread the Dominos message.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29 Corporate social responsibility report continued Both ourselves and our franchisees recognise that reducing energy consumption makes sound business sense, because it saves us case study money and enables us to help in our own small way to tackle the effects of climate change.
We therefore continue to look at ways to improve energy efficiency in our stores, head office and commissaries by reducing energy consumption and energy costs.
We put this to the test in our store in Alton when we worked with Eco Adapt to undertake an electricity optimisation trial.
We monitored the electrical consumption within the store for 12 months then installed an Eco Adapt solution system, which was then monitored for a further 12-month period.
The results were favourable, ensuring an annual saving of approximately 1,500 for the store, together with fewer equipment failures and a clear reduction in CO2 emissions.
This system has now been made available to all our franchisees.
We continue to look at our supply chain for ways to reduce our carbon footprint and we are working with WRAP Waste and Resources Action Programme, the Government-funded initiative, to further reduce food waste and packaging within our business.
We aim to keep our food waste to a minimum and our three deliveries per week allow our franchisees to quickly adapt to changes in customer demand.
We constantly review our packaging to see Shenley Village where potential improvements can be made.
Our boxes are already made from 80% recycled cardboard and are 100% recyclable In 2012, Dominos established a and we continue to look for new ways to improve in this area.
relationship with the ExtraCare Trust, Our stores in Essex and Hertfordshire took part in the Spring Clean which owns 13 retirement villages for the Queen campaign and helped remove litter, tidy the streets across the country.
and clean-up parks in their local areas.
At Christmas, our stores Two of its villages are located in Milton Keynes and in Hemel Hempstead and Glasgow also participated in clean-up the local stores regularly donate pizza to their race campaigns, helping to restore local parks and gardens.
Members of the operations team visited one Workplace Caring for our employees of the villages to teach residents about Dominos The welfare of our team members is important to us and we have Pizza.
The visit included a talk on the history of the continued to invest in the wellbeing of our staff by introducing the business, a pizza making demonstration and an Vitality Programme, as well as offering our employees the chance opportunity for some of the residents to have a go to take part in a corporate health review.
The programme enables at making their ownpizzas.
employees to complete their own health review and be provided with a report containing tips and advice on how to improve their lifestyle.
In addition, the programme offers our team members the opportunity to attain discounts from a wide variety of high street case study retailers by gaining points.
Points are achieved by taking steps to improve their lifestyle by reducing their alcohol intake, stopping smoking, visiting the gym more often or just taking a daily walk in their lunch hour.
We also provide company bicycles on site at head office for our team members to use during lunch hours or after work.
With our move into Germany and now Switzerland we have realised the need for some of our employees to speak German, so German lessons are being provided to key team members.
We also renewed our contact with PERKZ the online discount scheme that ensures our employees are able to receive money off theatre tickets, holidays, clothes and a whole range of benefits.
Extraordinary Deliveries Dominos delivers to any number of places.
This year some of our extraordinary deliveries have included happy couples who have just got married, a family on board a narrowboat, a businessman on a train, hospital staff dealing with passengers from a crash scene and even delivery via dinghy to a customer stranded in the summer floods.
30 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Our biggest internal investment in 2012 was the roll-out of a brand new Company intranet.
This new system, Dominos Base, Responsibility Deal provides our employees with the latest news and company information and has been designed to help promote staff In 2012, we agreed to implement six pledges engagement and increase transparency.
from the Department of Healths Responsibility Slice magazine continues to be produced on a quarterly basis and Deal.
The six pledges are Out of Home Calorie is sent out to all employees, franchisees and stores.
The magazine Labelling, Health and Wellbeing Report, Active provides an insight into the business and shares best practice, Travel, Physical Activity in the Workplace, Salt competitions and corporate news and information.
This colourful magazine is now also available online via Dominos Base, ensuring Catering and the Non use of Artificial Trans Fats that our team members are always able to view the latest copy.
We are immensely proud of those who work in our system, from Accepting these pledges confirms our commitment to providing franchisees and head office employees to commissary staff and only the best quality food to our customers.
The welfare of our store team members.
Their wellbeing and happiness at work is staff is also vitally important to us, so we will continue to a high priority for the business.
Without their drive, commitment encourage our staff to be active by providing them with access and passion for the business the Company would not achieve to discounts on gym membership, via the Vitality Programme.
We have already started to make progress on the reduction of Marketplace Quality remains our priority salt in our products and plan to continue this work in 2013.
We are proud of the food that our stores produce for our customers and this pride starts with the supply chain.
As a company, we choose our suppliers carefully and we continuously monitor the quality of We were delighted during the year to see all of our food and our ingredients and regularly meet with our suppliers.
packaging suppliers sign up to Sedex Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, helping us to manage ethical and responsible practices In 2012, we signed up to implement six pledges from the Department in our supply chain.
In addition, we ensure that our meat and dairy of Healths Responsibility Deal.
The six pledges are Out of Home Calorie suppliers work closely with their chosen farmers to ensure animal Labelling, Health and Wellbeing Report, Active Travel, Physical Activity welfare is to the required EU or international equivalent standard.
in the Workplace, Salt Catering and the non-use of Artificial Trans Fats This is an area we continue to monitor closely.
Accepting these standards evidences our commitment to providing only the best quality food and to improving the nutritional value During the year we also trialled the use of pole and line caught tuna of our menu.
the most sustainable fishing method for skipjack tuna and we will be moving to this permanently during the first quarter of 2013.
A notable addition to our menu in 2012 was the Gluten Free pizza base, a long awaited product that has been well received by coeliacs Going forward and the Coeliac Society, who have approved it.
We took great care In 2013, we will continue to provide SOGB and NICH with financial and time over the launch of this product to ensure it was safe for support, via the Pennies scheme, but we will also select a new coeliacs to eat.
charity partner to work with and benefit from the funds raised.
We have decided to allocate our corporate donation fund to matched During 2012, we continued to challenge our suppliers to further funding, so that we can support our employees and encourage reduce salt, fat and calories from the products we use and sell them to get involved in charitable events relating to causes that in the business.
We know that customers continue to show keen have particular relevance to their lives.
interest in the quality of products on our menu and we are proud to have no added hydrogenated fats, no GM foods and no artificial In the coming year, we will work hard to meet the requirements colours or flavours on our menu.
of the pledges we agreed to as part of the Department of Healths Responsibility Deal and we will continue to look at ways in which Our Take a Fresh Look website www.
co. uk provides to keep our menu fresh and exciting.
We plan to open many more our consumers with a wealth of information regarding our products, stores and develop our European markets further.
Most of all, we including their origin and their calorific content.
We realise the will continue to serve our customers with what we believe is the importance of this information and continually review and update best quality pizza in town.
this site to provide our consumers with as much relevant information as possible.
This site received 550,900 unique views in 2012, averaging just short of 46,000 visitors per month.
Also, as members of the Anaphylaxis Campaign, we do our best to provide clear information to those with allergies.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31
