Drax Group plc Annual report and 36 accounts 2012 Corporate and social responsibility Committed to responsibility Our approach to corporate and social responsibility We operate our business within a framework of increasingly stringent and challenging legislative and regulatory requirements.
We are, however, mindful of the still tougher expectations held by our wider stakeholder group.
For us, corporate and social responsibility is about achieving a balance between the commercial and regulatory rigours of the competitive sector within which we operate and our commitment to our stakeholders as a whole.
The Board has ultimate control of policies in respect of both the wider corporate responsibility, such as our business conduct, and our environmental, health and safety programmes.
The Boards policies are implemented by dedicated specialists who make sure effective processes and procedures are in place to assure compliance and to identify and to report on risks and opportunities.
As in previous years we have continued to invest, not only to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements, but, where practicable, to go further.
In 2012, we retained our presence in the FTSE4Good Index Series, which is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and facilitate investment in those companies.
Drax and Government Drax and shareholders: departments: k Road shows Drax and Parliament: Drax and local k Face-to-face Drax and government: k Face-to-face k Brieng papers meetings European Union: meetings k Liaison meetings k Face-to-face k Consultation k Brieng papers k Reports and meetings responses k Annual consultative k Face-to-face announcements Drax and employees: committee meeting k Written and oral k Visit programmes meetings k Website k Open Forum evidence k Exhibitions k Via trade k Via trade k Visit programmes k Brieng sessions k Visit programmes associations associations k Newsletters Engaging with our stakeholders Drax and local Drax and media: Drax and Government Drax and NGOs and Drax and suppliers Drax and trading community: agents regulators: opinion formers: and customers: counterparties: k Press releases k Sponsorship k Face-to-face k Face-to-face k Face-to-face k Face-to-face k Face-to-face meetings meetings meetings meetings k Fundraising events meetings k Correspondence k Brieng papers k Contractor briengs k Industry events k Themed campaigns k Visit programme and data k Contractor safety k Visitor programme submission conference k Exhibitions k Via trade k Newsletters associations Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 37 Materiality Climate change and the environment Given the diversity of our stakeholders there are a Tackling climate change wide range of topics and performance measures We believe we have an important role to play in the on which we could report.
In determining which to transition of the UK towards a low carbon economy report we consider their materiality in terms of their whilst maintaining secure and affordable supplies of relevance to the Company and their importance electricity.
For us, a sustainable business principally to stakeholders.
implies delivering on our commitment to generating electricity from sustainable biomass and continuing Throughout this Annual report and accounts to improve thermal efficiency as the major, strategic we aim to report on topics and performance carbon abatement initiatives.
measures that represent our significant economic, environmental, and social impacts and those that The centre of our improved thermal efficiency would substantively inuence the assessments programme at the power station over the last five and decisions of stakeholders.
Further reporting years has been the 100 million upgrade of the high is undertaken in accordance with the Global pressure and low pressure steam turbines of each Reporting Initiative framework and is available of our six generating units.
In 2012 we saw the on our website at: completion of the programme, which was the largest www.
uk corporate responsibility gri steam turbine modernisation programme in UK history.
The project was delivered within budget and planned timescale, and the plant is benefiting from Business conduct an increase in overall efficiency and a reduction in CO2 emissions.
Our commitment to integrity We have a commitment to high ethical standards The biomass future for the Group is now more and to conduct our business with honesty, certain, with clarity on the support level for integrity and in accordance with applicable the technology provided by the Government, laws and regulations.
the committed nancing and the expertise gained from our extensive research and development in Our reputation for acting with integrity plays this area.
Major works were undertaken in 2012 a critical role in our success.
Integrity not only towards the construction of dedicated biomass underpins how we do business, but how we expect receipt, handling and storage facilities.
This work our suppliers, agents, partners, contractors and will continue in 2013 and 2014 as we press ahead to consultants to do business, whether in the UK, become a predominantly biomass-fuelled generator.
We are committed to preventing bribery and corruption and take responsibility for Through increasing the amount of sustainable maintaining a culture within the Group in which biomass burnt in place of coal we will signicantly bribery is never acceptable.
reduce our carbon footprint on todays levels.
The average greenhouse gas saving across the We ensure that all third parties we deal with are range of sustainable biomass materials burnt in reputable, by means of carrying out Know Your place of coal in 2012 was above 80% using the Customer due diligence checks and searches, life cycle emissions of coal burnt at Drax Power and have formed an Ethics and Business Station as the baseline.
Conduct committee to escalate problematic counterparty requests.
In addition to our thermal efficiency and biomass development work, in partnership with Alstom Code of Business Ethics UK Limited and National Grid Carbon Limited, The Groups Code of Business Ethics establishes the we continued to develop plans to build a 426MW rules and framework under which employees should oxyfuel carbon capture and storage demonstration base their decision making.
Employees are expected plant at the Drax Power Station site.
In January to follow not only the letter of the Code, but the spirit.
2012, we were joined by industrial gas provider, BOC a member of The Linde Group as a co-sponsor Whistleblowing of the project.
Viability of the project is dependent The Groups whistleblowing policy provides a on external funding and the introduction of a market condential means for our employees to speak up mechanism to support low carbon technology with confidence.
The policy provides guidance on uptake.
To that end we are participating in UK how to make a disclosure of information, in good and EU funding programmes.
faith, relating to some danger, fraud or other illegal or unethical conduct that they may have witnessed or are concerned about.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 38 accounts 2012 Corporate and social responsibility Environmental performance and compliance Procedures are in place to manage and monitor We fully understand the responsibilities we have to the drainage and water systems on-site to ensure society and the environment and we are committed all discharge consent limits are met.
to furthering the environmental leadership position Disposals to land we hold in the coal-red sector.
We have continued to invest in site infrastructure Environmental compliance of our power station to maximise the sale of ash products into the and associated landll site is managed through an construction industry and to reduce the disposal environmental management system EMS.
In 2012, ash was sold This system is externally certied to the international in conformance with European construction standard ISO 14001 and is subject to external audit product standards and in compliance with the twice a year.
Waste Recycling Action Programme WRAP quality protocol.
We are currently undertaking a trial with the Environment Agency in the Environmental This has helped us to sell over 60% of the Permitting Compliance Assurance Scheme.
1.5 million tonnes of ash produced in 2012 as The scheme is intended to reduce regulatory burden replacement for virgin aggregates and as a on the best performing sites, whilst maintaining cement replacement product.
an adequate level of oversight through combining In 2012, construction started on the lightweight assessment of specic legal compliance with aggregate production facility on site, which is certication to ISO 14001.
We expect to conclude owned and will be operated by Lytag Ltd, a company the trial in 2013, and we will continue to work with based in Escrick, North Yorkshire.
The facility will the Environment Agency to determine the ongoing manufacture lightweight aggregate from pulverised approach to regulation in the future.
fuel ash: production is expected to start in 2013.
We are pleased to report that there were no major Any unsold ash is sent to the power stations ash breaches of our environmental consents during 2012. disposal site, Barlow Mound.
The completed area Emissions to air of the site has been fully restored for use as farm We manage all our emissions effectively and have land and woodland.
maintained high levels of investment in ue gas We pay landll tax on the ash disposed of to the site.
desulphurisation and combustion control systems Through the Landll Communities Fund, we are able to ensure compliance with environmental limits.
to claim a tax credit for our donations to recognised We saw a record level of generation in 2012, Environmental Bodies.
We have worked with which resulted in corresponding increases in mass Groundwork North Yorkshire since 2001 on projects emissions from the power station.
All emissions designed to help mitigate the effects of landll upon were, however, within the limits set by the our local community.
During 2012, we contributed Environment Agency.
62,888 towards local community-based projects Looking ahead, work continues to develop a solution designed to bring about sustainable environmental to optimise compliance with the anticipated emission benets and contribute to the social and economic limits which will be in place beyond 2016 under the regeneration of the area.
We continue to manage waste from our operations Total emissions kt 2012 2011 2010 in a responsible manner.
In 2012 we met our target Sulphur dioxide 35.1 32.1 27.3 to divert 90% of non-ash waste from landll.
Nitrogen oxides 39.2 38.9 40.4 Dust 0.8 0.6 0.6 Alternative fuels To safeguard cost-effective power production, our fuel strategy recognises the need to procure a Discharges to water ready supply of traditional quality coal and how best Water is a key resource to Drax Power Station to incorporate alternative fuels, including different with the great majority of the cooling water fossil fuels and renewable and sustainable biomass abstracted from the River Ouse.
The choice of fuels has to be balanced sources include the Sherwood Sandstone Aquifer with availability and exibility of supply.
The use of petcoke is now routine and our monitoring Water abstraction Mt 2012 2011 2010 indicates that there is no discernible environmental River Ouse water 56.7 57.7 64.8 impact on the local air quality.
In line with our policy Mains water 0.2 0.2 0.2 on openness and transparency all data are discussed Borehole water 1.8 2.1 1.8 with the Environment Agency and local councils.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 39 We are at the forefront of the introduction of Supply chain credible sustainability standards into biomass Non-fuel procurement procurement activities.
Our procurement process Overall, we take a balanced approach to our is designed to ensure that the production and supply chain and we look to use suppliers and delivery of biomass will: working partners from diverse backgrounds, k signicantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions in particular, small and medium-sized suppliers compared to coal-red generation: in the local community.
k not result in a net release of carbon from the Sustainability is an essential element of good vegetation and soil of either forests or procurement practice and takes account of wider agricultural lands: social, economic and environmental factors in addition to the conventional criteria of price, quality k not endanger food supply or communities where and service.
By applying these wider principles our the use of biomass is essential for subsistence procurement practices go beyond meeting simple for example heat, medicines, building materials : tender requirements to delivering improved value k not adversely affect protected or vulnerable and real cost savings throughout the supply chain.
biodiversity and, where possible, give preference to biomass production that Coal procurement strengthens biodiversity: We currently purchase around 9 to 10 million tonnes of steam coal each year.
This will fall gradually as k deploy good practices to protect and or improve three of our generating units are converted to soil, water both ground and surface and burn sustainable biomass, starting from this air quality: year.
We buy from a range of sources with the k contribute to local prosperity in the area of supply objectives of managing our commercial exposures, chain management and biomass production: and environmental obligations and diversity of supply.
We continue to purchase just under half of the coal k contribute to the social wellbeing of employees from UK deep and surface mines with the remainder and the local population in the area of the coming from major supply basins around the world, biomass production.
including USA, Colombia and Russia.
We work collaboratively with our suppliers to ensure When buying from overseas we have introduced compliance with the UKs sustainability requirements a process of documenting, in our contracts, under the Renewables Obligation.
confidence in the the minimum standards we expect from our sustainability of the biomass is achieved through a suppliers in respect of compliance with legislation, programme of information exchange, documentary human rights, labour relations, health and safety evidence, due diligence activities and independent arrangements and business ethics.
Biomass sustainability and procurement Later this year, the Government is scheduled to Biomass use is a high priority, but it is a introduce a legislative requirement to comply prerequisite that all our biomass must be purchased with sustainability criteria in order to receive from a sustainable source.
To ensure this we have regulatory support.
This will necessitate an annual implemented a sustainability policy which embeds limited assurance audit for compliance purposes.
comprehensive criteria into our procurement In preparation for this we have commissioned activities with the aim of assuring the sustainability external auditors to undertake an ISAE 3000 of the biomass supply.
Our Biomass Sustainability audit of our performance and system robustness, Management System ensures commitment to which will be fully integrated within the Biomass our policy.
Health and safety Health and safety is at the heart of our corporate responsibility.
Protecting our employees, contractors and all visitors from injury is fundamental to our business philosophy.
We are committed to developing and maintaining a positive health and safety culture in which statutory requirements are viewed as a minimum standard and leading performance as our goal.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 40 accounts 2012 Corporate and social responsibility Personal safety statistics Our active involvement with the programmes of our trade body, Energy UK, and the Coal Generators 2012 2011 2010 Forum, GENSIP, continues to provide new ideas Fatality 0 00 and a stimulus to drive our health and safety Time Losing Injuries 3 34 improvement efforts forward.
Restricted Work Injuries 2 10 Medical Treatment Injuries 3 05 First Aid Injuries 220 207 148 Employees 1 RIDDOR reportable 4 56 Employment Notes: 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
The Group employed 1,163 people at the year end.
Most of our employees work full-time and are on Attaining leading performance permanent contracts.
Recruitment activity during The lost time injury rate and total recordable 2012 saw the headcount at our operating subsidiary, injury rate for 2012 at 0.06 and 0.17 respectively, Drax Power Limited, increase by 26 and we now remain industry-leading.
Maintaining this level of employ 15 staff in our US ofce under Drax Biomass performance is commendable given the significant International.
construction work that took place during the year and number of man-hours worked, which at the Drax Turnover of staff remains low at Drax Power Limited Power Station site totalled some 4 million.
Our safety with an annual staff turnover rate of 5.8%, mostly record continues to compare very favourably with due to voluntary retirement.
The average length that of our sector peers and international of service is 13 years and 32% of the workforce benchmarks.
Amongst global comparator coal-red has been with the company for 20 years or more.
power stations we are ahead of the European and This high level of retention is particularly pleasing World Pacesetter group for total recordable injury as our business requires skills and experience which rate, which is a clear indication that the safety are difficult to source externally.
Absence rates are management system implemented in the last few consistently low, at around 2% per annum.
years is delivering sustained levels of performance.
At Haven Power, the annual staff turnover rate We have been successful in retaining certication is 35.9%, which is indicative of the nature of of our Health and Safety Management System to the the business and the demographic prole internationally recognised Occupational Health and of the workforce.
Safety standard, OHSAS 18001, at the Drax Power We maintain high standards in employment Station site and we have attained certication for practices.
For example, equality and inclusion our straw pellet plant, based at Goole in the East is respected, and managers and employee Riding of Yorkshire.
Drax Power Station is one of a representatives are trained and supported to ensure select group of large coal-red power stations in the the speedy and clear resolution of queries and country to hold this standard, which is approved by grievances.
We review our policies and procedures Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
on a regular basis to ensure legal compliance and In addition to this, we were pleased, once again, improved service levels.
to be awarded the RoSPA Gold Medal Award Employee relations having achieved Gold Award standards for eight Some 45% of our UK workforce 520 people are consecutive years.
covered by collective bargaining arrangements.
Safety leadership and recognition Formal negotiation and consultation takes place We are constantly striving to improve the critical through the Company Committee a joint safety leadership contribution required from first management and union body that meets regularly to line supervisors.
The expectations of both discuss working practices and terms and conditions management and supervisors continue to be of employment for production employees, and to reafrmed in the Safety Leadership Charter.
receive updates on the Groups strategy.
A Health and Safety Advisory Committee Employees in the corporate functions and senior HESAC, which brings together a range of production staff at Drax Power Limited, and all staff employees, including trade union representatives, at Haven Power and Drax Biomass International are safety representatives, occupational health and employed on personal contracts, which are not management team members, continues to play a covered by collective bargaining.
Formal information vital role in facilitating staff consultation on health and consultation arrangements are in place for these and safety issues, and driving standards upwards.
groups of staff, so that any proposals for change can be discussed openly and with sufficient time to build in revisions arising out of the consultation.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 41 Learning and development At Haven Power monthly staff briengs are Our personal and career development processes delivered by the management team.
The staff across the Group are designed to equip all our briengs provide an update on current performance people with the technical skills, management against the Business Plan and communicate key and leadership competencies, and personal business updates.
Staff forums and one-to-one behaviours needed to achieve our Business Plan.
discussions also take place routinely.
In addition, All employees receive annual performance and monthly team meetings and various events are facilitated throughout the year promoting staff career development reviews.
The intranet continues to grow are reviewed and assessed formally through interim providing a central location for news stories, and final appraisal discussions with their manager.
Personal development plans include both technical training and behavioural development, which are Diversity and equality delivered through a rolling programme of internal We have established a policy to ensure that gender and external learning events.
diversity is one of the factors taken into account In 2012, we continued our supervisor development when considering future appointments to the Board programme in partnership with Coventry University.
and other senior appointments, and in line with the Through a series of workshops, an action learning Equality Act 2010, we have updated our diversity project and a 12-week secondment into a supervisory and equality policy and our dignity at work policy.
position, the participants were able to develop their The Group is committed to ensuring that none of leadership capability.
This years project was the protected characteristics, such as age, race and implemented in partnership with the Smallpeice religion, which underpin the Equality Act are barriers Trust, an independent educational charity that to working for us.
runs hands-on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics STEM activities for pupils in Performance and reward Years 612.
Our pay and benets are competitive.
We benchmark Each year we recruit for our sponsored four-year our reward packages at every level in the organisation apprentice training programme covering power against the industry sector and the market as a whole, station operations and engineering maintenance.
nationally or locally, as appropriate to the role.
In 2012, we took on ten apprentices across the We also participate in specialist industry meetings three disciplines of mechanical, electrical and to exchange information and developments in control & instrumentation.
Through a range of share plans we encourage all UK Succession planning employees to build a personal stake in the ownership In 2012, we introduced a structured process of of the business.
succession planning for senior roles with a specic career management discussion integrated within Recognition the existing appraisal process.
The process follows The achievements of our staff have been recognised an annual cycle of discussion, implementation through a number of awards and shortlistings for and review, and identies succession pipelines awards from external bodies during 2012. and gaps, and provides a framework for individual development recruitment planning.
The Forest Footprint Disclosure scheme is an innovative initiative assisting businesses in assessing Internal communications their impact on the worlds forests.
For the fourth year We use a variety of communication channels to running, Drax was ranked as the leader in the utilities ensure that all colleagues are kept fully informed sector based on the comprehensive sustainability of developments in the Groups operations and criteria in our business procurement activities.
have an opportunity to provide feedback.
Open Forums for Drax Power Limited staff provide a series of face-to-face meetings where the Chief Executive and Executive Committee present business updates to small groups, followed by an open question and answer session.
In addition, our all-employee communication methods include monthly team briefs and e-mail and intranet communications.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 42 accounts 2012 Corporate and social responsibility This year staff at Haven Power helped the At Haven Power we aim to create a supportive, company to achieve the accolade of No.
1 for healthy and safe environment for all employees.
customer satisfaction in the small and medium Our employment policies aim to promote an enterprise SME market in the external 2012 environment that ensures the health and wellbeing Datamonitor Survey.
of all employees, creating a dynamic environment where people can excel including health screening We were among the nalists for the Capital and occupational health support where required.
Project Management Award of the Utility Industry We run a variety of initiatives throughout the year Achievements Awards 2012 for our turbine upgrade promoting a healthy lifestyle including quit smoking project, a five-year-long project which was days, cancer awareness, walk to work and other completed in 2012. employee-driven events that focus on improving individual wellbeing.
For the second time in the past three years we were acknowledged for upholding good governance and All of the UK workforce is represented in formal joint professional standards at the ICSA Institute of management-worker health and safety committees Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Hermes that help monitor and advise on occupational health Transparency in Governance Awards 2012, through and safety programmes.
The committees have winning the Best sustainability and stakeholder senior management representation, with trade disclosure FTSE250.
Health and wellbeing Pension provision and retirement We are committed to promoting the health and There are 356 employees who are members of the wellbeing of all our staff and ensuring a professional Drax Power Group of the Electricity Supply Pension response to all first aid and emergency situations Scheme, which was closed to new entrants in 2002. that occur.
All other UK employees are eligible to join the Group We have published occupational health policies Personal Pension Plan or the Haven Power Personal which address industrial disease risks, and our Pension Plan, which are both actively promoted to occupational health team undertakes regular new recruits.
Any UK employee aged 55 or over is programmes to screen colleagues who are in eligible to take their accrued retirement benets, contact with, for example, high noise levels or dust.
in line with the statutory minimum age for receipt Everyone working in operational areas has a general of an occupational pension.
At Drax Power Limited, our phased retirement policy Some categories of worker are exposed to materials means that any employee aged 55 or over may apply which may pose a risk to health, such as chemicals to take accrued retirement benets and continue to and process dust.
In these cases, more specic work part-time subject to operational requirements.
health surveillance, such as lung function tests, For employees approaching their chosen retirement hearing tests and eyesight tests are undertaken age we offer paid pre-retirement leave and prethrough an ongoing programme managed in retirement courses to help people transition accordance with risk, exposure and Health and smoothly from working life to their new life.
Driving and driver A exible retirement policy is operated at Haven training support programmes are in place for those Power, and employees may voluntarily retire at a who travel frequently on business.
Employees aged 65 or over, Each year we have a planned programme of health who are members of the Haven Power Personal promotion.
In 2012, Drax Power Limited received Pension Plan remain entitled to the benets of the bronze level Healthy Heart award from Heart the scheme.
Research UK in recognition of various initiatives including a Quit Smoking programme and other campaigns to encourage healthy diet, exercise and lifestyle.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 43 External relations Stakeholder engagement As in previous years, we maintained our and community relations engagement with public affairs audiences on issues Engaging with our stakeholders with implications for our business.
With energy Like many businesses, our stakeholders are many policy still high on the political agenda we had and diverse, including our shareholders, employees, significant engagement with Parliamentarians and customers, suppliers, the local community, ofcials at all levels on issues including forthcoming Government, non-governmental organisations, environmental legislation, renewables policy and market reform issues.
regulators, opinion formers and the media.
Communication with all our stakeholders is The form of engagement was varied and considered to be an essential part of our business included both face-to-face and written briengs, and we aim to be open and transparent in all that participation in public consultations, written we do.
Reference has been already made to specic evidence to inquiries, and visits by Parliamentarians stakeholder engagement practice and exercises and ofcials to Drax Power Station.
As in the past, throughout this Corporate and social responsibility trade association membership proved useful during section: below we touch on other aspects of our the year.
The ability to meet with and discuss stakeholder engagement commitments, from issues of the day with other interested parties has investor relations to community relations.
facilitated representation of collective positions on energy policy matters.
Investor relations We are committed to delivering shareholder value.
No political donations were made in the UK or We communicate our results and prospects to our elsewhere during 2012 2011: nil, and the Groups shareholders in an accurate and timely manner contact with those active in the political arena has using a variety of channels.
In addition to the Annual been and will continue to be aimed solely at the General Meeting, we communicate through our promotion of the Groups business interests.
Annual report and accounts, Half year report and The denitions of EU political expenditure are Interim Management Statements.
All of these broad and there is widespread doubt about the documents are made available on our website at extent to which normal business activities, which www.
significant matters relating might not be thought to be political expenditure in to trading and the development of the business the usual sense, could be considered to be political are disseminated to the market by way of expenditure within the meaning of the legislation.
announcements via a regulatory information The Company wishes to avoid any inadvertent service and those announcements appear as soon infringement of the legislation and each year, as practicable on our website.
though a resolution at the Annual General Meeting, Announcements are frequently followed up with seeks the authority of shareholders to incur either conference calls or presentations to provide expenditure for the Company and its subsidiaries further detail and greater understanding.
In addition, for such purposes of 100,000. face-to-face meetings are held with our major institutional shareholders, and other potential Community relations investors in the Group, again to assist them in their We are committed to being a good neighbour to our understanding of the announcements, but also to local community and our caring for the community ensure that the Board is aware of their views and philosophy involves being part of local and regional concerns.
To aid our communication with private communities.
Our involvement takes the form investors, the investor section of our website has of sponsoring a variety of local charities and been developed to be a readily accessible and fundraising events, promoting our own campaigns which focus on the three themes of youth sport, transparent source of information to enhance education and the environment, and maintaining understanding of the business.
open communication channels and good working relationships with the regions key opinion formers.
Sponsorship and fundraising During 2012, the Group gave financial support of 182,000 2011: 137,000 in total across a range of charitable and non-charitable community causes.
Of that total, charitable donations amounted to 127,000 2011: 94,000.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 44 accounts 2012 Contributing to the local community We are committed to being a good neighbour to our local community and our caring for the community philosophy involves being part of local and regional communities.
Our involvement takes the form of sponsoring a variety of local charities and fundraising events, promoting our own campaigns and maintaining open communications channels with the regions key opinion formers.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 45 Corporate and social responsibility Some 18,000 of the total donations were made Educational visits are complemented by the Skylark under the direction of our sponsorship team, Centre which provides classroom and laboratory across a range of activities within a 20-mile radius facilities where teachers and students can discuss of the power station.
Each month the team meets to and investigate the results of pond dipping, a bugs consider requests received for charitable donations and grubs hunt, or a nature trail walk through and community sponsorship and makes awards woodland areas.
These facilities were enhanced against our criteria of furthering community, during 2012 with the construction of a new Skylark Centre building equipped with the latest technology environmental and sporting interests.
to assist the schoolchildren with their nature studies.
Drax also operates a for and Give As You The new centre was opened by Olympic gold Earn matching scheme, under which we match medallist, Nicola Adams.
any monies raised for, or donated to, charity by employees.
During 2012, some 53,000 of the total Our Cricket in the Community initiative, donations made were through these schemes.
launched in May 2006, has continued to prove popular with local schools.
During the year, the Now in its eighth year, the outage charity scheme England and Wales Cricket Board qualied coaches raised 12,000 during the years two planned on our staff, together with England ladies cricketer, outages.
Through the scheme 500 is donated for Katherine Brunt, took cricket coaching to schools in every seven days that goes by without an injury the local area as part of our support for education requiring more than first aid treatment.
The money and to promote sports learning as part of the was divided equally between four charities chosen National Curriculum.
by Drax staff and our contractors.
A further 1,000 was donated to local charities following a fundraising Strengthening our links with the game of cricket, event held at our annual safety conference for for the sixth year we ran the Drax Cup, a cricket contractors and staff.
competition for teams of girls and boys under the age of nine.
Some 300 primary schools across For the sixth year running we held a charity Yorkshire took part in the knock-out tournament corporate golf tournament at Fulford Golf Club, organised by the Yorkshire County Cricket Club York.
The event raised just under 15,000 for Yorkshire CCC in conjunction with the Yorkshire the Yorkshire Air Ambulance, which provides a Cricket Board and the Yorkshire Schools Cricket crucial emergency service for the region.
This year the winning school was honoured to receive a recognition award from the Bedale Primary School in North Yorkshire.
Yorkshire Air Ambulance for the donations made Under the Art in the Community banner, we held over the years, approaching some 50,000, our sixth art competition for primary and secondary through the golf tournament.
Some 24 schools participated and the Education in the community winners received prizes of top art supplies and their We provide a choice of educational experiences schools shared in prize money totalling over 2,800. hosted by our team of power station guides and, Our Summer Art Schools, designed to encourage at times, technical experts.
A state-of-the-art and develop art appreciation as part of our support visitor centre is of particular interest to students for education and to promote art learning within the of all ages allowing them to explore the properties National Curriculum, entered their fifth year in 2012. of electricity, discover how a power station works Children aged 7 to 10 learnt how to design and make and consider the environmental issues related to masks and kites using a variety of materials along electricity generation.
with t-shirt painting and jigsaw making, while a Combined with a tour of the power station, masterclass for 12 to 16 year-olds helped them learn students can learn about the basic principles more about the skills and techniques involved in and development of electricity generation, using watercolour and mixed media.
the role of different fuels in electricity generation, trading of electricity, environmental issues related Visitors to Drax to burning fossil fuels, the recycling of by-products Thousands of visitors are welcomed to the power and the role of a large industrial complex in the station every year.
The appeal of discovering more local economy and community.
about how power is produced and the sheer scale of the site and its associated activities attracts schools Another visitor opportunity exists at our nature and colleges as well as business organisations, and reserve that lies at the heart of our ash disposal site.
During 2012, Established as a sanctuary for over 100 species of we played host to some 6,500 visitors.
wildlife, it is specially designed to help schoolchildren understand more about the natural habitat and ecology of the area.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
