Corporate Responsibility review A sustainable approach DS Smith collects used paper and cardboard, makes recycled paper, then turns it into packaging the full recycled loop.
We play our part by helping our customers meet their environmental targets.
DS Smith also has its own targets that we strive to achieve and exceed.
Our corporate responsibility approach Health and Safety Aims 2011 12 actions and progress t Ensure the safety of our staff and others Health and safety is our top priority in t Lost time accidents LTAs down affected by our operations.
all senior operational meetings it is the first 23 per cent.
t Reduce the number of accidents with t Accident frequency rate AFR down the ultimate goal of zero accidents.
t Accident severity rate down 10 per cent.
Environment Aims 2011 12 actions and progress t Reduce our emissions by 20 per cent over the DS Smith has set the target of reducing t CO emissions per 000s revenue down 2 next 10 years, relative to production.
CO, water and landll usage, relative to 16 per cent.
2 production, by 20 per cent over the next t Contribute to optimising resource usage t Water usage per 000s revenue down 10 years.
Each of our businesses has targets and minimising waste throughout our 12 per cent.
as part of their business plans to achieve this.
t Waste sent to landll down to 12 per cent from 13 per cent.
Community involvement Aims 2011 12 actions and progress t Develop and maintain good relations DS Smith seeks to focus its charitable t We have established the DS Smith with our local communities.
activity on projects local to our operations Charitable Foundation to partner with that foster engagement with and between charities aligned with our activities our employees and our communities.
Employees Aims 2011 12 actions and progress t Develop our employees to full The Group has set new corporate values t The OWN IT!
programme has been their potential.
rolled out across all employees.
t Promote the alignment of the Groups talent behind the corporate strategy through communication, engagement and effective people management.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 22 Business Review Our principles and approach to whole supply chain, taking into consideration Environment corporate responsibility the transportation, wastage on the packing At DS Smith we are committed to conducting DS Smiths business model is built line, and the materials used in the packaging.
our business in a responsible and sustainable DS Smith has been developing light-weight on sustainability by providing manner, delighting our customers, creating solutions for some time.
For example, we corrugated packaging that is largely value for our shareholders, and providing have developed a type of corrugated board, made of recycled material, and our employees with a safe and productive R-Flute, which signicantly improves the carbon work place.
Our plastics footprint in the supply chain.
While it has similar strength properties to alternative types of products, such as bag-in-box, Our core business is the design and corrugated board, it is 20 per cent thinner.
manufacture of recycled packaging for also offer significant environmental That means that 20 per cent more boxes can consumer goods.
We recognise that our benets over alternative packaging be tted in one lorry from our factory to that businesses have direct environmental impacts of our customer, so fewer lorry journeys are materials.
Therefore, for DS Smith, through running our operations and also needed.
This is a simple example of saving sustainability is part of our indirect impacts through our sourcing activities our customers cash and carbon in their and how our customers use and dispose business model.
DS Smith Recycling is the largest collector and Our corporate responsibility CR approach recycler of used paper and cardboard in the covers health and safety, the environment, UK.
We are different from our main competitors our employees, and our communities.
in the UK as, unlike them, we do not own landll sites.
Therefore customers of our The Board considers risks to the Groups short recycling services know that our commitment and long-term value arising from CR matters as lies in landll diversion.
part of its regular review of the key risks to the FTSE Group confirms that DS Smith Plc has Groups operations.
It ensures that the Group Corrugated packaging has good been independently assessed according to has in place effective policies and systems for environmental characteristics and we see the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied managing any significant CR risks and it substantial opportunities to continue the the requirements to become a constituent of receives regular reports on performance.
expansion of its use as a substitute for the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by The Group Chief Executive is the Director other forms of packaging material.
the global index company FTSE Group, responsible for CR matters and he reports to Our bag-in-box technology is used for a wide FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is the Board on these.
It is the responsibility of the range of products in substitution for rigid plastic designed to facilitate investment in companies Divisional Chief Executives to communicate and containers, bottles, or other packaging formats that meet globally recognised corporate to apply the policies, to ensure compliance and for liquids.
The cardboard box is readily responsibility standards.
Companies in the to review procedures, taking account of local recyclable, while the plastic content in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent legislation and potential risks.
bag and tap is often signicantly less than the social and environmental criteria, and are The Group has a Workplace Malpractice amount of material used in the production of an positioned to capitalise on the benets Policy, under which employees may report in alternative plastic bottle.
The benets continue of responsible business practice.
confidence any perceived wrongdoing within through the supply chain as boxes of liquids can the Group on matters relating to safety, the be packed in a more space-efficient manner environment, unethical business conduct or and the weight of the packaging is less often breaches of Group policies, the law or other making it cheaper and less energy intensive regulations.
This policy is reinforced by a to transport.
These benets of bag-in-box condential Employee Concern Helpline packaging have been independently veried and e-mail facility.
Any concerns reported by PIRA the Paper and Board, Printing and are appropriately investigated.
Packaging Association and are promoted to customers by our Plastic Packaging business.
How DS Smith plays its part in a sustainable economy Environmental management and regulation Corrugated packaging produced by The environmental performance and activities DS Smith has attractive environmental of the divisions are reviewed at the Group characteristics, being both made from Environment Committee, which is chaired recycled raw material and recyclable.
by the Group Chief Executive.
We work closely with our customers to reduce Each of our sites is required to implement an the carbon footprint of the packaging they environmental management system EMS which require and at the same time, to save costs.
is appropriate to its activity.
DS Smith has 58 We look at the cost and carbon impact of the sites accredited under the ISO 14001 standard DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 Corporate Responsibility review continued and 26 that have in place a simplied EMS, quantities of energy and water.
The UK paper The Group reduced its carbon dioxide appropriate to their lower level of potential mills are regulated through PPC permits under emissions by 3 per cent in absolute amounts.
As part of their EMS, which they each have specic improvement Relative to revenue, carbon dioxide emissions many Group businesses have procedures programmes and targets.
DS Smith Papers fell 16 per cent reecting the effect of price in place for assessing their suppliers overall compliance with its environmental ination on revenue as well as underlying environmental policies and management permits rose to 99.7 per cent in 2011 12 improvements.
As disclosed, the proportion systems, as appropriate.
2010 11: 99.0 per cent principally due of Scope 1 emissions has increased with a to better performance of our efuent treatment commensurate reduction in Scope 2 emissions.
The Group had a number of minor plants.
DS Smith Paper is a key participant This reects the change in ownership of the environmental incidents during the year, in the UK paper sector Climate Change Levy power plant at our Kemsley site, where following which prompt corrective action and CCL Agreement with the Department of ownership has transferred from E. ON to steps to prevent any recurrence were taken.
As Environment, Food and Rural Affairs under DS Smith, and hence a change in reporting previously reported, in 2010 the Environment which the industry has undertaken to achieve in accordance with DEFRA guidelines.
Water Agency brought a case against DS Smith Paper energy consumption reduction targets.
DS Smith usage per 000s revenue fell reecting a focus Limited in relation to alleged breaches of the Paper met the final target of the existing scheme on roll-out of best industry practice in this area.
Higher Kings Mills Pollution Prevention and with future targets yet to be identied awaiting The proportion of waste generated by the Control PPC permit that occurred between Government revision of the scheme.
Group which was sent to landll fell from December 2005 and March 2008.
The 13 per cent to 12 per cent, a relative charges primarily related to the training of The Groups UK and French paper operations improvement of 8 per cent.
staff, record keeping and the operation of are subject to the terms of their respective the mills efuent treatment plant.
A detailed national schemes for implementing the EU Energy efficiency environmental survey has indicated that these Emissions Trading Directive.
We expect the Our two largest paper mills, at Kemsley in the breaches did not result in any significant Groups emissions to be slightly below our UK and Kaysersberg in France, have on-site environmental impact.
At the court hearing emissions allocations during EU ETS Phase CHP plants.
These CHP facilities provide energy in October 2010, DS Smith Paper Limited 2.
The effects of subsequent phases from more efficiently, with lower CO emissions and 2 pleaded guilty to a number of the offences, 2013 onwards are likely to be more at signicantly lower cost than if it were to generally relating to record keeping, and onerous, being dependent upon the details of be sourced from the external grid.
In addition, pleaded not guilty to charges of intentionally the emissions allocations and the market price Kemsley Mill recycles, in the form of energy making false entry in a required Environmental of carbon under future phases of the scheme.
recovery, a substantial proportion of the reject Agency record.
DS Smith Paper Limited was material, such as plastic and polystyrene, which Environmental performance found guilty on all charges.
DS Smith Paper enters its process mixed in with the waste paper In 2010 11 DS Smith set a target of a Limited appealed against three of the 19 and is separated out during paper manufacture.
20 per cent reduction in carbon dioxide CO charges, being those charges and related fines 2 The mills own waste-to-energy plant efficiently emissions, water use and of waste to landll, of intentionally making false entries in a required recovers the energy to produce steam for use in relative to the activity level of the business, Environmental Agency record.
The appeal the mills operations.
Further, we applied in April over the following 10 years.
was heard at the Court of Appeal in November 2010 for planning permission for a sustainable 2011 and the initial guilty verdicts in relation Our businesses include their environmental energy plant at Kemsley to reduce the mills to these charges were overturned.
impact in their budgeting plans in order to reliance on fossil fuels.
The proposed fuel for track their progress against their targets.
In accordance with our general practice this plant is hard-to-recycle materials, sourced relating to any regulatory breaches, at the time and pre-treated offsite, which might otherwise During the year, we again employed of the incident a full investigation was promptly go to landll.
The power plant would be built independent consultants, Bureau Veritas, undertaken of all our UK paper mills to ensure by energy company E. ON and by waste to review our environmental data collection that nothing similar arose.
As a result we specialist Wheelabrator, with DS Smith and reporting process in order to ensure the implemented a range of actions to strengthen providing the site.
Planning permission has robustness and accuracy of the Groups our systems including increasing the scope been granted and an operating permit from environmental performance indicators.
This and frequency of our internal audits.
the Environment Agency has been received.
The review concluded that overall there was a project is now subject to securing the necessary The Groups paper manufacturing good level of process control and reporting contracts for a supply of waste.
If the contracts operations account for the majority of the at the sites but identied some areas for Groups environmental impact, particularly are agreed, it is expected that the plant will be improvement which are being considered operational by 2017. because their manufacturing process uses large and, as appropriate, implemented.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 24 Business Review Environmental Performance Indicators Verication Statement from 2011 12 2010 11 Bureau Veritas UK Ltd 1 Energy consumption Gigawatt hours 4,078 3,460 Megawatt hours 000 revenue 2.01 1.97 2 Carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 Scope 1 direct emissions 000 tonnes 687 312 Scope 2 indirect emissions 000 tonnes 196 600 For the fourth year we have worked with DS Smith Plc to provide an independent Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions 000 tonnes 883 912 opinion on the Environmental Performance Kilograms 000 revenue 435 518 Indicators presented on this page of its 2012 Water usage Annual Report.
Having completed a process Million cubic metres 14.9 14.5 incorporating site visits, document review and interrogation of associated management and Cubic metres 000 revenue 7.3 8.3 reporting systems, it is our opinion that the 3 Waste management presented performance indicators provide Waste recycled 000 tonnes 223 221 a fair and accurate representation of Waste sent to landspread 000 tonnes 100 162 DS Smith Plcs performance.
Waste-to-Energy 000 tonnes 121 99 DS Smith Plc should be commended on their Waste sent to landll 000 tonnes 59 70 approach to data collection, which continues Total waste generated 504 553 to remain consistent across the divisions with a clear understanding of required processes Kilograms 000 revenue 249 314 demonstrated by those with responsibilities Per cent of total waste sent to landll 12% 13% in this regard at both divisional and site level.
Methodology: The Group aims to collect and report its environmental data in accordance with the guidelines It remains clear that DS Smith Plc is constantly specified by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is looking to improve these processes: both via currently practicable.
The gures reported above include data from all of the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned internal mechanisms, and as demonstrated in operations and sites worldwide.
The methodology used is consistent for 2010 11 and 2011 12. the proactive manner in which the company 1.
The energy gures relate to the usage of all fuels used in xed installations on the Groups sites plus the diesel fuel used for freight transport has continued to engage Bureau Veritas on this project.
The CO emissions have been calculated using the energy data, as dened above.
The factors used for converting 2 gas, coal, fuel oil and diesel usage into CO emissions are the latest factors for each year as published by the 2 UK Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in the Guidelines to DEFRAs GHG Conversion Bureau Veritas encourages DS Smith Plc Factors.
The factors used for converting electricity usage are the national gures for each country in which the Group to continue to improve its data capture operates, also sourced from DEFRA: these factors therefore reect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation and reporting processes at the Group in each country.
As required by the GHGP, Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO emissions are reported separately.
2 Scope 1 direct emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or vehicles owned by the Group: and divisional level.
Scope 2 indirect emissions are those arising from bought-in energy i. e. electricity or steam where the combustion has been carried out by another company.
Scope 3 emissions from sources external to DS Smith but involved A full verication statement including in the supply chains for the Groups products and services are not included our methodology, basis for our 3.
The waste gures relate to waste generated by our operations: they do not include waste that is collected from opinion, additional recommendations, external sources for recycling within our paper and plastic packaging operations limitations and a statement of Bureau Veritas independence can be found on the DS Smith Plc website http: www.
June 2012 Bureau Veritas UK Ltd London DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 Corporate Responsibility review continued compare 2011 12 with 2010 11, where was taken seriously at their workplace.
84 per Health and Safety 2010 11 has been adjusted to include a cent of respondents also felt empowered to Safety is our highest priority.
full year ownership of Otor.
Statistics relating raise concerns about unsafe practices.
The to Spicers are excluded from all years, as it Groups safety communications programme, In 2011 12 we have made is no longer part of the Group.
operating under the slogan Think Safe, Be excellent progress, improving Safe, aims to raise awareness of key issues, In September 2011, there was an accident our safety performance in each to challenge unsafe attitudes and behaviour at Higher Kings Mill prior to its disposal which, of our three Key Performance and to promote a collective responsibility for sadly, resulted in one fatality.
The accident maintaining a safe working environment.
year we have particularly focused on near-miss The safety of our staff and those affected by our In 2011 12, we achieved a 23 per cent reporting, supported by training at site level.
operations is our highest priority.
In 2011 12 reduction in Lost Time Accidents LTAs : these The Group has a well established safety audit the Group continued to improve its safety are accidents that resulted in one shift or more programme conducted by internal specialists performance.
Our businesses benchmark their of working time being lost.
There was a 22 per and external consultants.
These audits are used safety performance internally and through the cent reduction in the accident frequency rate to ensure sites consistent adherence to safety use of external data.
Information on safety AFR, which measures LTAs in proportion to the standards and to investigate possible areas of performance, including statistics related to our number of hours worked.
The resulting action plans set a clear KPIs, is reported to the Board quarterly.
The cent improvement in the accident severity rate, pathway for improvement.
Integrating safety overall goal is to achieve zero accidents and which measures the hours lost as a result of into the Groups operational improvement forum our divisions set interim targets against their accidents as a percentage of the total hours has enabled further progress in spreading best KPIs, which reect the nature of their business worked.
The improvements in the Groups practice across the Group, focusing on issues and their previous performance.
safety record reect the leadership shown such as re-engineering processes to improve by the Groups managers and the ongoing In September 2010, the Group acquired safety and factoring safety issues into commitment of our employees to working a business in France, Otor, whose historic procurement decisions.
As a Group we remain resolute in our health and safety record signicantly lagged determination to realise a zero accident culture All accidents and situations that might have that of DS Smith, as we reported last year.
In and to continue to build on the progress we resulted in an accident are investigated to December 2011 we sold our Ofce Products have made to date.
ensure we learn from these incidents and Wholesaling division, Spicers.
In 2011 12, take steps to prevent a recurrence.
In addition we have worked very hard to improve the The Groups progress towards a zero to focusing on specic risks, through techniques health and safety performance of the Otor accident culture is evidenced by 47 of the of risk assessment and root cause analysis, the business, along with making improvements Groups 107 sites having no LTAs in 2011 12.
Group also undertakes extensive safety training throughout the Group as part of our continuing In the Groups engagement survey, 84 per cent programmes at all levels of the organisation.
The statistics quoted below of respondents agreed that health and safety Safety performance indicators Lost time accidents Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate numbers of accidents resulting numbers of lost time accidents working hours lost as a result of accidents in lost time of one shift or more per million hours worked as a percentage of total hours worked 127 6.85 0.21% 2011: 166 2011: 8.79 2011: 0.23% 240 12 0.3 200 10 160 8 0.2 6 120 4 80 0.1 2 40 0 0 0.0 08 09 10 11 11 12 08 09 10 11 11 12 08 09 10 11 11 12 Excluding Including Excluding Including Excluding Including Otor Otor Otor Otor Otor Otor www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 26 Business Review implementation of improvements which are Community Employees directly linked to the Groups strategic goals and DS Smith employees are skilled, supported by behavioural and attitudinal change involvement in line with the values of the business.
We look dedicated and hardworking.
We DS Smith has established a forward to sharing some of these completed are engaging with our employees projects in our 2012 13 Report.
charitable foundation to support to deliver the Group strategy the work of charities aligned To help share stories and experiences of best and realise their true potential.
practice across the Group globally, DS Smith with our activities and values.
Engagement in our DS Smith story has a new internal network portal, which allows We seek to develop and maintain good In 2010 DS Smith ran a Group-wide employees to read about the success of other relations in the local communities in which we employee survey to understand better the views teams, form project groups to discuss ideas, and operate.
We aim to make positive contributions and opinions of all employees on a range of connect virtual teams or those with similar clients to our communities and build a reputation as a topics including the business, their role, their or interests.
In 2012 13 this will be developed good neighbour and employer.
Our businesses manager, and their working environment.
This as a route to improved collaboration, better work closely with local schools and colleges information was used to formulate action plans dissemination of best practice and network providing training, mentoring, work experience for 2011 12 at a local, divisional and Group thinking to harness the wisdom of the crowd.
placements and other opportunities for pupils level.
The action plans and progress made As part of this development, the tool will start to learn about industry and business.
The towards their completion has been widely thought leadership around key strategic Group is involved in a wide range of other communicated and will be measured formally questions to form interest communities who local community activities including sponsorship in the next survey later in 2012.
Some of will meet in summits to discuss the leading of community projects or sports teams and the actions at a Group level that have been ideas in those elds based on internal provision of adult skills training.
For example, undertaken as a result of this process are and external learning from practical and staff from our ofce in Caerphilly are involved outlined in more detail below under the theoretical perspectives.
in the Keep Wales Tidy initiative.
The programme has united employees who The DS Smith Charitable Foundation has The DS Smith story OWN IT!
work in a range of countries and with a range been established this year to provide support Delivery of the strategic narrative has been of different product or service offerings around to charities in two areas aligned with the accompanied by illustrative stories that recognise a single purpose and common strategic goals.
activities and values of the business, being and celebrate the success of individuals and There is also a clear declaration of how 1 environmental conservation issues and teams achieved to date.
These success stories DS Smith employees act through the common 2 opportunities into work.
Application forms help to build pride and belief in the Company values that form a crucial section of the narrative: can be found on our corporate website.
and identify examples of best practice, as well DS Smith employees are caring, challenging, The DS Smith Charitable Foundation also as connecting the high level goals and narrative trusted, responsive and tenacious.
These values actively encourages ideas from employees to real-life experiences with which individuals clearly draw on the strengths that are already regarding potential partnership charities.
present within DS Smith but also represent the The DS Smith Charitable Foundation intends common standards required of each employee Whilst the DS Smith story aims to engage to identify and start working with its first in order to realise our vision.
and excite employees in what we want to partnership charities later in 2012. achieve as a business, the wider OWN IT!
programme also acts to realise the potential of our people by enabling them to own their part Engaging with our of the story.
Each and every team in DS Smith will be engaging in interactive meetings focused employees, listening on a local goal that links to one of the strategic goals.
These meetings seek small yet significant to their views and steps that can be taken to work more efficiently, collaborate more effectively, use or develop responding through latent potential or learn from our past success to improve the business.
Each small step is our actions is suggested and owned by a member of the team and the accountability for the projects an integral part undertaken shared between the team members, including the recognition of a projects successful of becoming a completion.
Once established, this process will promote the continuous identication and leading business.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Corporate Responsibility review continued Engaging with our employees OWN IT!
The DS Smith story in action In addition, training programmes are Our 5 core values The DS Smith story is not a stand-alone carried out by the Groups businesses programme and the principles are embedded in response to their speci c operational in all aspects of the business, including performance requirements.
The individual Be caring people management practices and training and development needs of employees We take pride in what we do and initiatives, from recruitment to performance are met through a variety of schemes including: care about our customers, our people management, talent management and management development programmes, and the world around us leadership development.
which in some cases involve external accreditation: support for studying external The DS Smith narrative tells of a need to Be challenging vocational and professional quali cations: realise the true potential of our employees and We are not afraid to constructively and schemes for coaching and mentoring it was decided that an objective assessment challenge each other and ourselves managers, using both external and against xed competencies would provide to nd a better way forward internal resources.
a framework to better identify and develop talent throughout the business.
Therefore, The DS Smith Group is also committed, as bespoke DS Smith leadership and technical a minimum, to meeting the labour rights and Be trusted competencies have been designed that legislation requirements in each of the countries We can always be trusted to deliver provide a consistency of vocabulary and in which it operates: in practice the Group on our commitments standards for recruitment, development often exceeds the local and international and assessment across the Group.
As DS Smiths operations are almost entirely located in member countries This is evidence of the Groups commitment Be responsive of the OECD, human rights matters are not to ensuring equal opportunities and We seek new ideas and understanding perceived as a signi cant Group risk.
transparency in all recruitment and and are quick to react to opportunities employment practices.
To continue to develop the consistency of performance appraisals across national and Be tenacious business boundaries within the Group, a new We get things done performance management system has been launched with all senior managers across the Group that assesses their performance against personal objectives, the new competencies and how they live out the DS Smith values in their work life.
The next steps for 2012 13 will be to expand the new system further within the Group and to OUR STORY... continue to develop the predictive measures To become the for identifying potential and talent.
leading supplier of recycled packaging A new training course has also been for consumer goods developed for new and potential leaders across the Group that through a range of... OWN IT!
modules builds leadership skills that help deliver and live out the messages of the DS Smith narrative.
This means there will be a common standard of what makes a DS Smith Leader, that they will be equipped to manage, lead and coach as well as act as role models of the values and culture to their colleagues.
At present this course is running in the UK and in 2012 13 will be extended to other Group locations.
