Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 17 Corporate social responsibility Why does it matter to Dunelm?
What have we achieved this year?
We are an equal opportunities employer: We take Corporate social responsibility We were the UKs fourth favourite our policy is to recruit, develop, promote CSR seriously because it matters to our homewares retailer according to the 2012 and retain skilled and motivated people customers and our colleagues, it affects Verdict survey.
Readers of House regardless of disability, race, religion or profitability and it is important for our Beautiful magazine also voted us the belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reputation.
Home Retailer of the year Gold Award for reassignment, marital status or age.
We were also highly commended Our key CSR considerations in the Coffee Bar Sandwich Retailer of the We maintain regular communication with Customers year award for 2012. all colleagues, through store manager Colleagues huddles, our Gazette magazine which Health and Safety We have worked with a third party to help is published at least quarterly, and via the Suppliers us to better understand what our computer-based Dunelm Academy, Environment customers like about us, and where we to which all colleagues have access.
We also operate a Colleagues Council, through which colleague representatives How do we manage CSR?
We introduced a number of convenient can raise and discuss ideas and concerns The Board has overall responsibility for new services, such as Reserve and with senior management.
Concerns CSR, which includes approving our CSR Collect and ordering via mobile phone.
raised are then fed back to the Operating policies and monitoring performance.
Board for consideration and action.
We launched our social media service The Chief Executive, Nick Wharton, is including Facebook and Twitter pages, We offer a range of training and responsible for reporting to the Board on to enable us to communicate better with development opportunities to colleagues all CSR matters.
Each month the Board our customers and to gain their feedback.
at all levels of the business.
These include: receives a scorecard which includes CSR measures, and there is a separate 2012 13 objectives: Nationally accredited modern Health and Safety report.
We will continue our work to better apprenticeships and NVQs.
understand what our customers want Our graduate programme, which leads Our approach is to embed CSR into the from us, and to assess whether to an Institute of Leadership and responsibilities of members of the actions being taken by us are Management qualification.
Operating Board, as identified below.
Support for colleagues studying for Each individual then reports to the Chief We will refocus the activities of our professional qualifications, such as in Executive in respect of those matters.
colleagues in-store, to enhance the finance and IT.
service they offer to customers.
A range of workshops in key We report to colleagues on our We will continue to improve the service management skills, such as leadership achievements regularly through our offered by our on-line store, in terms of and communications.
choice, the overall website experience, Interactive computer based product and delivery of the product.
Customers What have we achieved this year?
Champion: Chief Operating Officer Colleagues We have taken part in the Governments Champion: Finance Director work placement scheme, offering short Why does it matter?
term training opportunities to the The success and future growth of our Why does it matter?
business depend on us being able to We employ nearly 7,000 colleagues deliver a range of products to our across our stores, and in our distribution, We have an arrangement with Jobcentre customers that meet our Simply Value for manufacturing and store support centre Plus, offering preferential treatment to job Money ethos, together with a great locations.
Without their hard work and applicants who have been unemployed customer experience.
dedication we would be unable to deliver for six months or more.
great products and services to our What do we do?
customers and successfully grow and Access to computer based training has Our aim is to consistently deliver great develop our business.
been extended to all store colleagues.
products, that are safe, legally compliant and competitively priced.
A plan has been implemented to ensure We are a growing business and we need that every colleague in the business will We want our customers to experience to be able to attract and retain colleagues receive a formal appraisal at least annually excellent service in store, on-line and to help us deliver our development plans.
We offer a competitive remuneration and benefits package, including our annual Our management induction training has We want our stores to be safe and sharesave scheme which is open to all been restructured, and the outcome will accessible.
colleagues with three months service.
Include a personal development plan for all management recruits.
Our marketing will be fair and truthful.
Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 19 Corporate social responsibility continued 2012 13 objectives We have an in-house health and safety 2012 13 objectives We aim to double the number of audit document, which pro-actively To further utilise and develop the places on our graduate programme addresses health and safety risk and is intranet and e-learning systems for in2012.
The audit training and central recording of site We will conduct an employee covers stores, workplace transport, store documentation.
engagement survey across the Group.
development, warehousing and the store To review and develop further our Our Colleagues Council will be support centre.
Our stores complete an business continuity plans for non-store relaunched.
on-line self audit monthly, and area sites.
We will continue to improve our managers audit all of their stores at least To review and improve our key risk colleague training opportunities, once a year.
This is backed up by our controls for: through structured programmes and in-house operational audit team and Fire Safety additional modules on the Dunelm followed up by the Group Health and Work Related Road Safety academy.
We will work with partners to provide opportunities to the unemployed.
We have an on-going programme of Suppliers education and training, including DVDs Champion: Buying Director and interactive computer based learning.
Health and safety Champion: Director of Central Operations Why does it matter?
What have we done this year?
Our suppliers are crucial to help us By targeting high standards of compliance Why does It matter?
We need to to company procedures and using The Board recognises that we have a duty maintain long term relationships with positive reinforcement of success of care to ensure the health and safety of manufacturers worldwide who can meet achieved, we have been able to improve customers, colleagues, contractors and our high standards for design, innovation, compliance against our internal audit to all other visitors to our premises.
Health quality and value, but can also 82% 2010 11 65%.
Despite opening an and safety risk management is an integral demonstrate that they operate in additional 14 superstores during the year, part of the core standards that we set for accordance with recognised standards we have seen a reduced accident rate of our business.
A great deal of our focus and The Board is ultimately responsible for the We aim to treat all of our suppliers fairly development this year has been on creation and implementation of our health and consistently.
We ask all of our management and colleague training with and safety policy and procedures, which suppliers to sign our standard terms and further additions to our e-learning titles include an effective system of upward conditions.
All new suppliers are made and bespoke DVDs on the following and downward communication, aware of the basis of trade with Dunelm topics: Health and Safety induction, appropriate standards for monitoring and in particular our standard payment Fire Safety and Preventing Customer performance, and for ensuring that terms in advance of commencing trade.
Our insurers have sufficient resources are available to The number of days purchases recognised the improvements made in support this activity.
outstanding for payment at 30 June 2012 public and employee claims and was 27 days 2011: 36 days.
supported us by providing DVD players Health and safety Is a standard agenda for stores.
item at every Board meeting, and the We continue to work in collaboration with Board receives a monthly report and a our suppliers to ensure that our products We have developed a Workplace formal annual presentation from the are produced in clean and safe Transport Delivery Area Database to: Central Operations Director.
environments, that workers are treated with assess risk, monitor compliance and respect and earn a reasonable wage and identify remedial actions required from Regular Health & Safety review meetings that suppliers work within the relevant local delivery driver surveys completed six are held with our dedicated Health & laws and legislation.
All direct suppliers are monthly.
The database will give clearer Safety manager and senior management required to sign up to our Code of visibility of risk management issues and from the key operational functions: Stores, Conduct enforced by a full programme of actions required taken.
Development, Manufacturing and independent factory audits at least every Logistics.
These meetings ensure three years, based on the Ethical Trading Our non store activities have been focused respective risks are understood and that Initiative ETI base code.
Our Technology on developing Business Continuity Plans, relevant mitigating action has been taken department also covers Code of Conduct with support from specialist consultants, to provide a safe environment.
matters through routine quality audits.
to cover Emergency Response, Crisis Management and Recovery.
This pro-active Each store manager is responsible for Where non-conformities are discovered we planning approach further embeds a ensuring the implementation of health and have a formal procedure for working with a positive health and safety culture and risk safety policy and procedures in his or her supplier to help them achieve compliance, management commitment.
store, supported by the area manager usually within three months although and the Group Health and Safety critical non-conformances such as use of manager.
Risk assessments are in place child labour are escalated immediately.
Ultimately if progress is inadequate we will cease to trade with the supplier.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 19 100 100% 80 76% 68% 60 50% 40 30% 20 What have we done this year?
Waste recycling These initiatives have enabled Dunelm to We updated and relaunched our standard reduce the proportion of waste to landfill 0 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 supplier terms and conditions, amongst Target from 32% 2011 to our lowest ever level of 12 13 other things to include a warranty that the Landll Recycled 24% and our effort has been recognised Recycled previous years supplier has systems in place to prevent externally by the award of High Street bribery and corruption.
Recycling Champion as part of the Lets Recycle.
Our Code of Conduct was updated.
Waste recycled all stores - % cardboard electrical metals plastics 100 We held supplier conferences in China to 100% educate suppliers on our Code of Conduct Dunelm has established the specialist 80 and other regulatory requirements.
position of Group Recycling Manager.
76% 68% 60 This role reports into the Environment All product suppliers were required to Steering Group and focuses on the 50% 40 demonstrate an ethical audit by June effective optimisation and delivery of our yoy improvement 30% 20 2012.
This was completed, with no critical waste management strategies.
70% 50% 32% 24% issues outstanding: over two thirds of 0 suppliers passed the audit with no follow The Group is focused on minimising the 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 Target 12 13 up action required.
volume of waste sent to landfill.
To this Landll Recycled end, we target year-on-year increases in Recycled previous years 2012 13 objectives the proportion of waste recycled across 2012 13 objectives We will work with selected partners all areas of the business.
Our progress We have already commenced trials to develop our in-house ethical during the year is detailed below: of glass recycling, food recycling and auditing expertise.
replacement of cardboard outer cardboard electrical metals plastics Our supplier ethical audit database A new in-house recycling centre has packaging by reusable Tote boxes will be developed to give us greater been built at our central warehouse in for some stock.
visibility of up to date audit status.
This facility now enables the We have set our target for the Group to recycle all types of plastic forthcoming year to reduce all waste Environment waste, back-hauled from stores, in sent to landfill to zero.
addition to cardboard and paper.
As a Champion: Deputy Finance Director yoy improvement result we have seen significant increases Energy use 70% 50% 32% 24% in recycled material and revenues.
Energy reduction on a site-by-site basis As a responsible business Dunelm is Investment has been made to provide continues to be a key focus for the Group.
every store with an industrial baler.
committed to minimising the impact of its operations on the environment and This enables efficient local processing During the year we have completed a of recyclable material and boosts our recognises that good environmental project to equip our superstore chain with management makes good business sense.
capability to manage volume through Building Management Systems BMS our business.
designed to optimise and control energy What have we done this year?
We have engaged in a new partnership usage across the site while maintaining an with a specialist waste management Dunelm operates an Energy Policy appropriate shopping environment for our overseen by an Environment Steering company to deliver reductions in the customers and staff.
With BMS systems volume of waste to landfill.
Group made up of senior management continuing to be fitted as standard to all from across the business.
This framework An initiative to Recycle at Work was new stores Dunelm now has 101 stores re-launched at our annual store allows us to embed environmental 30 in 2011 controlled by this energy considerations into our business and to managers conference.
Our entire superstore local ownership of our waste strategy deliver a strategy to achieve high levels of estate reports energy consumption on a environmental performance.
through a network of Recycling half hourly basis typically through AMR Champions in stores.
These principles Automatic Meter Reading smart meters.
The key areas of focus are waste were also applied to all other sites Data captured in this way enables the including our new head office at Syston.
management, energy consumption and Group to report on energy trends and This year every site has had a waste carbon emissions.
In these areas our volumes to understand high or unusual audit designed to challenge and improve progress over the past financial year and patterns and to target specific sites for waste management practices.
As a our goals for the forthcoming year are reduction or to monitor the success of our result the capacity of general waste detailed as follows: energy reduction initiatives.
These audits will be conducted every year.
We have engaged with a specialist Through the year we have partnered partner in energy management to monitor with a number of charities to re-use our energy usage and to control our BMS fabric waste in creative ways culminating systems with the goal of reducing in our current agreement to supply consumption.
waste material for use in acoustic panelling in the motor industry.
Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 PB Corporate social responsibility continued During the year we have also invested Carbon footprint - CO tonnes per site Community 2 in a lighting solution for one of our High Champion: Marketing Director 300 Street stores.
This trial successfully 250 262 reduced the energy consumption of the Why does it matter?
235 220 200 store by 40% and we now intend to As a responsible retailer, we are 194 188 retro-fit this solution into other High committed to supporting charities, 150 Street stores.
both on a national and a local basis.
100 50 As a result of these actions we have What do we do?
reduced electricity usage by 3.2% and 0 We adopt a charity of the year, for which 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 Target gas usage by 25.1% in like-for-like stores.
collections are made in-store, specific 12 13 fund-raising events are organised, and Core Supplies as defined by Environment Agency YOY Reduction in electricity the Group makes its own donations.
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme consumption L4L stores Each store has a Charity Champion and amounts raised by store are reported 2012 13 objectives 7.0% monthly, the top 3 are named in the We will continue to partner with an 6.0% 6.3 5.0 colleague magazine The Gazette.
external consultancy to further focus 5.0% We also support colleagues who are on reducing our carbon emissions.
5.0 4.0% raising money for charities of their choice, 3.0% often by matching the sums raised.
3.2 Our target for the forthcoming year is 2.0% 2.4 to reduce CO emissions per sq ft year 2 1.0% We do not make any political donations.
Product packaging 12 13 Our charity of the year was Wallace and Dunelm continues to work with suppliers 2012 13 objectives Gromits childrens charity, whose to reduce both the absolute level and Our target for the forthcoming year is objectives are to improve the quality of life recyclability of packaging in our products.
to reduce electricity and gas usage by of sick children in hospitals and hospices 5% in like-for-like stores.
We have In the year we have commenced the trial raised funds through a variety of ways, of a new tote delivery system for our Carbon emissions CO including our Friends and Family night, product.
In addition to operational benefits 2 Over the past year we have continued to a themed fancy dress fundraising evening of a more efficient flow-through of stock procure energy from Green Energy in store, through sale of pin badges, bake to the sales floor, this initiative reduces the supplies such as combined heat and sales, fancy dress days and the Wrong level of outer packaging per delivery by up power sources where CO emissions are Trousers day on 29 June.
to 40% and has the potential to increase 2 30% lower than the national average.
vehicle fill and thereby reduce miles We introduced a monthly payroll lottery, travelled and carbon.
We have continued to reduce the half of the proceeds of which go to our maximum emissions tolerated within our chosen charity.
The Group is promoting a reduction in the company car fleet, this is now 135g km use of single-use carrier bags and we 2011: 155g km and many fuel efficient We also supported a variety of other ensure that Eco-bags are offered in all models have been added to the scheme.
events such as Children in Need.
In October, in line with a new initiative from the Welsh Development Dunelm holds the Carbon Trust Standard The total value of donations made by the Agency, we started charging for all CTS certification recognising our Group in the year ended 30 June 2012 single-use carrier bags in our Welsh success in reducing our carbon footprint was 97,000 2011: 56,000.
As a result the use of these bags but also our continuing governance and raised for charity by the Group and has dropped by 75% and net revenues management in this area.
colleagues was 192,000 2011: earned through the charges have been 140,000. donated to Groundwork Wales, As participants in the Environment supporting sustainable communities.
Agencys Carbon Reduction Commitment 2012 13 objectives CRC we have submitted both annual During 2012 13 The Wallace and Over the course of the year the number of and footprint reports.
This is the second Gromit childrens charity will continue plastic carrier bags used in the course of year we have submitted an annual report to be our charity of the year, and we trade was flat YOY, only growing in line and our progress has been to reduce will support our colleagues in their with new store openings.
average carbon emissions per site charitable fundraising efforts as by 11.6%.
2012 13 objectives Our target for the forthcoming year is Dunelms carbon footprint from core to reduce the number of carrier bags supplies as defined by the CRC scheme used per store by 10%.
was 23,234 tonnes of CO We also plan to further roll-out our 2. reusable Tote delivery initiative to reduce the volume of outer packaging.
