Directors Report corporate Social reSponSiBility training and educating our staff worldwide introduction in the safe operation of our equipment: and This report describes the policies and procedures that the Board has put in place to ensure that ensuring that health and safety issues have Aggreko operates in a safe, ethical and responsible the appropriate level of focus throughout the manner, which protects the environment as well as management chain.
safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its customers, and the communities in which it operates.
Aggreko has created its own Global Environmental The process for identifying, evaluating and managing Health and Safety Management System GEMS the risks that are considered significant is summarised which has been implemented throughout the business.
under the heading of Internal Control on page 61.
At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice document that is published in 8 languages English, The nature of our business is that we work in many French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian different countries, often in remote and difficult and Singhalese.
The Best Operating Practice is environments, with equipment and substances which, updated in the light of experience and incidents.
if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to people and harmful to property and the environment.
GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system We frequently operate in response to natural or manwhich is designed to ensure that the Company knows made disasters, where the infrastructure has been of every incident, and can learn from it.
A uniform badly damaged and where operating conditions are far accident and incident data collection procedure from ideal.
Over time, therefore, we have developed is implemented worldwide, and from this we can a comprehensive range of operating procedures and measure our performance and benchmark our processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of harm operations.
Performance measures are reported at a to people or to the environment.
business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious incident is immediately reported to the Executive health and SaFety Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart of its operations.
Most of our equipment is heavy, Meetings of the senior management of each region are electro-mechanical equipment which is moved around held regularly: at each of these an Executive Director frequently.
Compressors and generators respectively will normally chair the meeting, and incidents produce high-pressure compressed air and high voltage reported under GEMS are discussed.
For 2012, the electricity, either of which can be harmful to people Executive Director responsible for Health and Safety if mishandled.
Monthly reports were produced, which were considered at each meeting of the Board.
Aggrekos policy is to implement common health and safety operating procedures worldwide.
Whether SaFety operating in the Australian bush, the Saudi Arabian Our business involves the frequent movement of heavy desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating equipment which, in its operation, produces lethal procedures are the same high standard.
voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we are to avoid Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide accidents which could cause injury to people and damage Health and Safety Policy are: to property and reputation.
Safety processes are also a basic benchmark of operational discipline and there ensuring that health and safety issues are at is, in our view, a close correlation between a well-run the forefront of considerations when we design business and a safe business.
our equipment: The main KPI we use to measure safety performance ensuring that our equipment is built and is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident maintained to the highest standards: Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 corporate Social reSponSiBility CONTINUED lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the the Group are given suitable training for alternative base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, employment with the Group or elsewhere.
50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
A lost time accident is a work related injury illness The Group continues to operate team briefings that results in an employees inability to work the throughout its business to keep employees informed of day after the initial injury illness.
developments and plans, both in their own operations and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access The Groups FAR for 2012 was 0.94.
This compares to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an intranet based favourably to the benchmark of 1.4 reported for system, which provides them with a wide range of US rental and leasing industries published by the information on the activities of the Group around the US Department of Labor in 2011, and was an world.
The annual and interim results are publicised improvement on the 0.98 achieved in 2011. extensively throughout the business and are made available to all employees.
However, behind the numbers lies the fact that 2012 has been a traumatic year for us from a safety point of The Group has a whistleblowing hotline, which view.
For the first time in fifty years, an employee was gives access for all employees to a confidential, killed on one of our job sites: this was an avoidable multi-lingual service to report any cases of ethical accident and was caused when a third party contractor non-compliance, bullying or discrimination.
was lifting a piece of our equipment.
Our employee was killed when a chain snapped during a lifting the environMent operation.
In the Yemen, two contractors working on Set out below is an explanation of the terms one of sites were shot dead when the site was attacked and abbreviations used in this section.
Our thoughts and condolences go out to their families, and we are committed to increasing CO2 Carbon Dioxide.
the rigour with which we implement our safety EPA Environmental Protection Agency.
regimes which have delivered a safe working g kWh Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
environment for our employees and contractors for many years.
LWA Sound power level at source.
Further discussion of Health & Safety matters can MW A million watts.
be found in this report in the Principal Risks and NOx Oxides of Nitrogen.
Uncertainties section on page 32 and the Key Performance Indicators section on page 26.
Particulate In general this term relates to visible smoke.
FAR was as follows: Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 US Federal Government Year ended 31 December target emission reduction levels.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 FAR 0.94 0.98 0.71 0.76 0.46 Environmental policy Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all eMployeeS and equal opportunitieS continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities and use of the most suitable technology, we also aim to for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender minimise the environmental impact of that equipment.
or any other considerations that do not affect a Aggreko makes available to its customers equipment persons ability to perform their job.
and solutions that are designed to comply with applicable laws, regulations and industry standards The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career wherever we operate in the world.
In effect, this means development and promotion of employees are based they comply with the laws, regulations and standards on the suitability of the individual and give those of some of the most stringent jurisdictions in which who are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
we operate and, therefore, far exceed the levels Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining required in many others.
48 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report The two major environmental issues we deal with in NOx and particulate reduction targets our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment 0.6 the majority of which is diesel powered with an Tier 1 increasing proportion of gas, and the safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
0.5 Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar 0.4 way to safety.
They comprise: ensuring that environmental issues are at the 0.3 forefront of considerations when we design our fleet: Tier 3 Tier 2 0.2 ensuring that our equipment is built and maintained to the highest standards: 0.1 Tier 4 final training and educating our staff worldwide Tier 4 interim in the safe operation of our equipment: and 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 ensuring that environmental issues have the NOx g kWh appropriate level of focus throughout the management chain.
As our suppliers produce engines which comply with new emissions, we work with them to introduce Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates the new engines into the fleet.
In 2008, we started Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of trialling new Tier 2 compliant engines for our highhydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as engines horsepower range, and these were introduced into have become more efficient and legislation to limit production in 2010.
During 2011 and 2012 we emissions around the world has become stricter, continued our investment in new emissionised fleet emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko works in and by the end of 2012, the vast majority of our co-operation with the manufacturers of engines in order North American power fleet was certified to operate to meet new emission requirements in a timely manner.
at Tier 2 EPA standards or above.
During 2012, over 25% of the new diesel engines introduced to our The principal contribution we can make to reducing worldwide fleet were certified to at least Tier 3 in emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in North America or the equivalent Stage 3A standard good order, and introducing engines into the fleet in Europe.
At the same time, we introduced our first with good emissions performance.
Tier 4 Interim products and more than 1 in 12 of our new Diesel sets were certified to this standard.
We In an increasing number of countries, air quality expect this trend for increasing emissions compliance regulations stipulate emission standards with which new to continue in 2013 and plan to introduce new Tier 4 equipment being sold must comply.
Generally countries Interim certified products at 3 further power ratings.
allow mobile equipment already operating to continue to do so for its useful life.
To further reduce emissions-to-air for specific projects, The US EPA has introduced the earliest and most after-treatment can be applied to existing fleet.
In 2008 stringent regulation in this area, introducing reduction a significant project was undertaken in Chile to deliver targets for emissions of NOx and particulate in Tiers, the lowest level of NOx yet stipulated by a standard.
starting with Tier 1 in 1996, moving to Tier 4 final Seventy of Aggrekos project machines were fitted with around 2014.
The EPA requirements have therefore an advanced SCR that reduced NOx by 90%.
More been the main driver of new generator development.
recently the post Tsunami Diesel projects, totalling The following graph illustrates the reduction targets 248MW, utilised this technology on Aggreko machines for emissions under the EPA regime.
to meet the Japanese air quality standards.
Similar technology will be required to meet EPA Tier 4 final Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Particulate g kWh corporate Social reSponSiBility CONTINUED requirements in the US and in Europe thereafter.
We are Alternative energy sources currently working closely with engine manufacturers and In addition to the work we have undertaken primary technology developers to derive appropriate developing natural gas-powered generators, we are solutions for these requirements.
For the 2012 London constantly reviewing product technologies, looking Olympics, we developed and deployed a retrofit for advances that we can adopt within our product solution for existing fleet to meet LOCOGs stringent portfolio.
These include: demands for low emission levels.
Bio-fuels Across some of our markets we have seen Aggreko natural gas generator development the emergence of Bio-diesel as an alternative energy We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing source.
These fuels are compatible with most of our emissions, and have now built up a fleet of generator fleet, either in a blended or pure format.
approximately 1GW for gas projects and added Bio-fuel can reduce CO2 emissions, given that the over 250 smaller gas-fuelled generators into the crop that derived the fuel has absorbed CO2 from Local business.
This temporary power solution has the atmosphere.
While we will continue to support significantly lower levels of emissions see below.
customers who wish to run our equipment on BioIn 2012, more than 14% of the new generator sets fuels, our main concern with this energy source is introduced to our worldwide fleet were gas powered.
sustainability of the sources of production, and the environmental impact of certain production Tier 1 engine Gas engine Reduction methods.
Consequently, we are not actively NOx 8.5 g kWh 1.4 g kWh 74% promoting Bio-fuel use in our business.
Particulates 0.10 g kWh 0.04 g kWh 60% CO2 intensity 669 g CO2 520 g CO2 22% Fuel Cells Whilst we keep a close watch on the kWh kWh development of Fuel Cell technology, we do not currently see any commercial application in our business.
This may change as technology improves Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over other and costs reduce.
It is seen as economically more efficient because only about 10% of the natural gas produced is Renewables At present, it is hard to envisage wasted before it gets to final consumption.
In addition, the application of renewable energy sources to large technological advances are constantly improving temporary power generation projects.
While we efficiencies in extraction, transportation and storage have, for example, reviewed the application of techniques as well as in equipment that uses natural gas.
battery technology in combination with a diesel generator to provide hybrid power, which can Natural gas is considered an  improve efficiency and reduce fuel consumption, clean fuel, offering important environmental benefits technology is not yet advanced enough to enable when compared with other fossil fuels.
The superior us to pursue a hybrid renewable option.
We do environmental qualities over coal or oil are that however foresee a role for our products in emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible and that supporting systems and grids which rely upon the level of NOx and CO2 emissions is significantly renewables, where seasonal restrictions can occur.
Where the gas fuel is essentially a by-product of production or is derived from a biological source, Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide a CO2 and greenhouse gas reduction is realised.
Aggreko Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report This helps to reduce problems of acid rain, ozone 2011 and 2012 or greenhouse gases.
In previous years, we have resisted the pressure to spend shareholders money paying consultants In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is to improve on our guesses of what our greenhouse effectively a stranded resource.
Aggrekos service gas GHG emissions are.
Our issue is not with the allows for generation of power from this valuable principle of reporting, it is with attempting to impose resource on a more flexible and scalable basis than spurious levels of accuracy and pretending that the existing solutions.
They are not: they are an aggregate of many hundreds of more or less wild 50 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report guesses.
By way of example, in our reporting, 85% Table 2: Total GHG emissions by fleet non-fleet of our GHG emissions comes from our customers burning fuel in our engines.
But best practice dictates tCO2e year 2011 2012 that we add 15% to this number to account for the Fleet 13,497,561 14,850,161 assumed GHG gases expended making the fuel and Non-fleet 151,685 162,237 getting it to site, irrespective of whether fuel gets to Total 13,649,246 15,012,398 our engine down a pipeline or in a truck.
This 15% dwarfs our own in-house emissions.
The results show that 99% of GHG emissions arise However, over the past few years the pressure from from customers operation of our rental fleet.
In line various bodies to give a single number has mounted, with best practice, our GHG accounting systems and this year we have spent over 20,000 to get a include an estimate of the upstream GHG emissions specialist and actually rather good consultant to associated with fuel supply chains which typically add estimate what our GHG emissions are.
15% to combustion emissions: this 15% accounts for 97% of the scope 3 emissions detailed in Table 1.
In our 2011 Annual Report, we guessed that our worldwide CO2 emissions were between 12 and 15 Given the dominance of fleet emissions, there are three million tonnes a year.
Our consultant now tells us main factors driving Aggrekos total annual GHG that they were in fact 13,649,246 tonnes.
So we now emissions: the fuel type our customers chose to use: the have a single number we can report.
But be warned, pattern of their usage: and the fuel efficiency of Fleet.
it is an estimate, built on a foundation of many guesses.
Only the last of these is under the control of Aggreko.
Secretly, we also take some satisfaction from knowing that our cost-free, back-of-envelope estimate was The increase in GHG emissions between 2011 and about right.
2012 reflects the underlying growth in Aggrekos business and associated increase in fuel used by our Having paid the money, and done the work, we feel customers, where total energy delivered increased by that we should at least present the results in some over 15%.
The fact that the increase in total GHG detail, so shareholders feel that they have got some emissions was around 10% demonstrates a decrease value.
Accordingly, this report presents our scope in the underlying carbon intensity of our fleet, mainly 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions for the calendar years 2011 due to the increase in our gas fleet.
Without the fleet and 2012 one year ahead of our obligations under carbon intensity reduction of 5% between 2011 and the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2012, the total GHG emissions in 2012 would have Directors Reports Regulations 2013. been 719,000 tonnes CO2e higher.
Our investment in new fleet has therefore reduced GHG emissions Tables 1 and 2 below present the principal findings by nearly three quarters of a million tonnes in a year.
from GHG analyses of the previous two years.
This equates to the annual household emissions from a city the size of Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, and the Table 1: Total GHG emissions by GHG equivalent of four times Aggrekos non-fleet emissions.
protocol scope There are some more general points we should make: tCO2e year 2011 2012 first, Aggreko is committed to growing its business and Scope 1 11,304,074 12,639,771 if we are successful it is inevitable that the amount Scope 2 12,808 14,168 of fuel our customers burn, and therefore the amount Scope 3 2,332,364 2,358,459 of GHG emissions from our generators, will increase.
However, by investing in alternative fuels such as gas Total 13,649,246 15,012,398 and fuel-efficient engines, we can seek to mitigate the tCO2e year defined as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 corporate Social reSponSiBility CONTINUED Second, whilst diesel-powered generation is viewed Another potential source of environmental damage by many environmentalists as the devils spawn, a is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil significant amount of our capacity is dedicated to and filters.
In our Local business, these are normally making practical emissions-free generation such as returned to our service centres where they are safely hydro.
Like all sources of renewable energy, hydro disposed of.
In our Power Projects business, siteis intermittent, i. e. when it does not rain, you get no specific arrangements are made to ensure the safe hydro power.
In many parts of Africa, South America handling of these items.
and Asia the rains fail every 4-6 years, and they need alternative generation to support the grid when this Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way happens.
Supporting hydro with diesel is a core part to safety incidents, with monthly reports reviewed of our business, and enables these countries to provide at each meeting of the Board.
both low-emissions generation and continuous supplies of electricity, even in times of drought.
Noise Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through Thirdly, legislation over the last twenty years related to an equipment fleet that minimises external noise.
This combustion engines has focussed on reducing emissions is done by the use of custom-built acoustic enclosures such as Nitrogen and Sulphur Dioxide, which are just as well as high performance isolation and attenuation as harmful as CO2.
Engine manufacturers have been systems.
Aggreko continues to work closely with its very successful at this, but, perversely, lower nitrogen suppliers and local university research departments in and sulphur dioxide emissions come at the cost of order to develop its expertise in this field.
As a result, our worse fuel consumption, and therefore more CO2.
equipment is able to achieve the following performance So as our fleet gets cleaner by one measure, it gets standards that are well below the maximum levels dirtier by another.
permitted by current European legislation.
Size of generator Certified noise level Sound Power LWA Petroleum spills and the safe disposal of waste fluids Aggreko Aggreko Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable Maximum Standard Premium quantity of diesel fuel and the rare occurrence of Prime power EU limit Product Product accidental fuel spills is an area that the Group monitors 30kVA 96.47 92.0 78.0 very closely.
The measure used by management to 60kVA 96.77 93.0 80.0 measure the performance of the Group in handling 125kVA 97.10 94.0 83.0 fuel is the Petroleum Release Rating PRR.
This 200kVA 97.30 94.0 91.0 is calculated as litres released to ground, divided 350kVA 97.55 92.0 90.0 by the cumulative average MW on rent.
The PRR Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certified noise level equates performance over the past three years has been: to an audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
2012 0.41 Refrigerant In accordance with the timelines and accords set out 2011 0.62 by the Montreal protocol Aggreko has phased out CFC plant from its temperature control rental fleet 2010 0.58 and is in the process of phasing out HCFC plant: we have introduced HFC production models in all areas.
Our equipment has been specifically designed to minimise the risk of fluid spillage through features Social reSponSiBility such as a save-all base, double-walled storage tanks Policy and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of 0.37 has been Aggreko has a policy of encouraging local teams to set by the Group as a target for 2013, based on 90% engage with the communities in which they work, of the actual performance for 2012. and each year they undertake a significant number of initiatives to help the disadvantaged or those affected by natural disasters.
52 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report comprising Ken Hanna Chairman, David Hamill charitaBle donationS and Diana Layfield, to oversee the implementation During the financial year the Group contributed to of the Groups policies and procedures, and the report a range of charitable, community and disaster relief of the Committee is set out on pages 66 and 67. organisations.
In terms of cash and value-in-kind this Further discussion of our policies for handling amounted to around 361,271 compared to around ethical risks is set out under Principal Risks and 157,000 donated in 2011, but this is an estimate Uncertainties Failure to conduct business dealings and probably an under-estimate, because it is hard to with integrity and honesty, on pages 31 and 32. precisely quantify value-in-kind donations, and does not include a valuation of employees time.
Of this Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate total, 152,869 2011: 43,370 was donated in cash Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their to registered UK charities.
confidentiality and position is protected if they do so.
Our Group-wide whistleblowing hotline, described We have a policy of giving little donations to many on page 31, helps this process.
organisations which are involved with the communities in which we work, rather than giving a lot of money See our corporate to a few.
Our largest single donation goes to Book reSponSiBility WeBSite Aid International, a charity promoting literacy in Further information and copies of the Environmental, Africa, with whom we have been working since 2006.
Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics Policy Book Aid has provided hundreds of thousands of are available at http: ir.
com investors books to schools and libraries.
enormously, and donations from Aggreko have enabled books to be distributed in Cameroon, Kenya, Namibia, Tanzania and Uganda.
Books are, we feel, a good form of donation: they do not require maintenance: they can be used by many people: they are not open to corruption: they last a long time: and they help directly in the key task of helping people to help themselves.
No political donations were made during the financial year 2011: nil.
BuSineSS ethicS Ethics Policy Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our long-term success is something less tangible and less easily illustrated with figures or case studies.
This key element is integrity and honesty in our business dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees, as well as consultants and agents who we work with, are expected to behave ethically in their work, and our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate Ethics Policy.
The objective of the Policy is to make Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain our reputation for exceptional customer service and ethical business dealings: to compete ethically: and to ensure the business is managed to a consistently high standard.
The Board has an Ethics Committee Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
