Corporate responsibility easyJet plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2012 Over the past year AVOID was successfully tested using a light In order to deliver this we have organised the strategy under five aircraft on an active Mount Etna in Sicily.
Following on from this, a core strategic pillars.
partnership was announced with Airbus to test the equipment on A HR service delivery.
This is all about the easyJet HR team being an A340-300 test aircraft at the speed and altitude of commercial able to deliver a reliable, effective and efficient service to our aircraft.
The equipment was successfully tted which led to the easyJet people.
By this we mean ensuring that our people and UKsCivil Aviation Authority asking it to be made available during the their managers are supported by clear, simple and accurate period running up to and during the London 2012 Olympic Games.
processes and making it easy for them to understand these These latest developments also led to easyJets Head of processes and to ask when they need to.
This also means Engineering Ian Davies being awarded, alongside Dr Fred Prata, holding accurate data on our people and providing our people Flight Globals Aviators of the Year award.
managers with information which supports their roles.
In 2012 easyJet continued its campaign to help raise awareness A Organisational effectiveness.
This is about ensuring that the ofthe pan-European emergency number 112 as the safety infrastructure of the organisation enables delivery of the ofourpassengers once off the plane remains just as important.
required business performance and ensuring that our core On11February, also known as 112 day, easyJet pledged its support business processes, organisation design and physical for the European 112 Emergency Number campaign run by the environment are all enablers of business success.
European Commission, the 112 Foundation and a number of A Leadership, management and development.
Our success transportation companies airlines, trains, ferries to publicise the willcome from our people so we want to ensure that we have 112number.
easyJet remains the first airline to have pioneered the capable leaders and people managers to drive the business use of inight services to help promote the number and continued agenda, and that our people have the right skills and capability to do so in 2012 by increased visibility on the website, corporate to deliver both now and in the future.
activities and its in-ight magazine, as well as introducing a rolling programme of on-board announcements ahead of major A High performance culture.
At easyJet we set ourselves holidayperiods.
stretching goals and we want our people to understand the keypart that they play in our business plan and our success.
Passengers who require special assistance Wewant them to feel accountable for their delivery and easyJet takes the welfare of all of its passengers extremely seriously rewarded for their success.
as it continuously looks to improve the travelling experience.
In order to protect the long-term we took a further step to better assess the requirements of our success of easyJet we want to ensure that we understand our 300,000 passengers requiring special assistance.
Following on from talent portfolio and nurture this such that our people can be the continued improvements to service delivery, we looked closely at best that they can be.
We would like to be a destination of upgrading the training provided to our staff on the ground and in choice forcurrent and future talent from across Europe.
the air by reviewing existing courses and calling upon the support of the special assistance and disabled community to do so.
We have Building the foundations for success worked with several leading experts and associations from across This financial year marked the first year of our plan and our focus Europe including Guide Dogs UK and the French association APAJH was on building the foundations for future success.
We focused on Association pour Adultes et Jeunes Handicaps to help do this.
reviewing some of the basics of good people practice such that we We have also set up a special advisory group the easyJet Special could improve them and on sowing the seeds of our ambitions for Assistance Advisory Group ESAAG and chaired by the Right our people.
We believe that we have moved the people agenda Honourable David Blunkett MP to help fully oversee these changes.
forward this year and that there is still more to do.
Staff turnover and attendance Our people In line with the growth of the airline, our employment levels across Our people are at the heart of our business and they are the key to Europe have continued to grow.
our ability to make travel easy and affordable and meet our goal of As at 30 September 2012, easyJet employed 8,446 people being Europes preferred short-haul airline.
Our focus is to attract 2011: 8,288 based across Europe as illustrated below: theright person at every level, and to keep them engaged.
United Kingdom 5,132 People strategy Switzerland 698 This year we have reviewed our people strategy and have set France 840 ourselves clear goals.
Our three-part strategy is to make it easy forour people to be at the gate, on-board and able to y.
By this Spain 583 wemean: Italy 822 A At the gate The right people, in the right job at the right time Germany 294 equipped to succeed, supported by processes that work.
Netherlands 1 A On-board Living the values, wanting to be part of the Portugal 76 Companys success and knowing the part they play.
Total 8,446 A Able to y A high-performance culture where success and Of the 158 additional heads we added 56 cabin crew, 51 pilots and continuous improvement are expected, managed and 51new management and administration staff.
rewarded and people achieve their maximum potential.
The commitment by our people to working at easyJet was very strong with staff attendance at 95% for 2012 FY 2011: 96%, and staff turnover decreasing to 7.5% FY 2011: 9.7%.
easyJet plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Recognising that good performance management and recognition Delivery are both drivers of engagement and performance, we have We have improved our recruitment processes and the information improved our approach to both this past year.
Our hugely and support we give to candidates.
As an example, for our cabin successful second annual awards event was held in February 2012 crew recruitment we have introduced a try before you y feature at Disneyland Paris in France where we celebrated our people who on our career portal careers.
com enabling candidates have the Orange Spirit.
We have asked our people how we can toself-assess whether the role of cabin crew is the right move improve our culture of recognition and will make changes to our forthem and we also introduced online assessment tools in the Spirit programme and portal in the coming year.
In 2012 we improved our conversion rate by 7% on last year.
Talent and succession We ran the first year of our new European Graduate programme.
Organisational efficiency This got off to a ying start with easyJet being listed as 35th Best This year easyJet announced that it was going to cease basing Company to work for in The Job Crowd publication of Top aircraft and crew out of Madrid.
This of course was an exceptionally Companies for Graduates to work for 2012 13.
This report is based difficult message for our crew based in Madrid.
on reviews and feedback from graduate employees.
easyJet rated 4.18 5 in the publication gaining a higher position than other well Our approach was all about doing the right thing for our people.
established graduate programmes such as Rolls-Royce, KPMG, Weoffered all of our cabin crew and pilots an alternative role across LOreal, ASDA, M&S and Sainsburys to name just a few.
easyJet the network and are pleased that 87% of our people have accepted scored 4.6 5 for its company culture which is described by to continue with us.
graduates as vibrant, young and exciting.
The Company Leadership, management and development isdynamic and enthusiastic and reviewers report that it is We have spent time building our leadership teams and building afast-paced environment that rewards its employees.
individual leadership capability, ensuring that our leaders understand The second intake of graduates started in October 2012 and we our strategy, the associated business challenges and their roles in plan to have a further intake in October 2013. leading and engaging their teams to deliver on this.
To support this we have introduced an easyJet leadership framework, highlighting As part of our goal of becoming a destination of choice for for our leaders and managers the competencies required at futuretalent, we translated our careers website into five different levels across the Company.
We ran our first manager conference in November 2011 where we We recognise that our approach to reward is critical to our ability brought together our key functional leaders and our leaders at the toboth attract and retain our people.
easyJet offers a competitive various bases across the network to share our goals and align our reward package and reviews salaries annually in line with market managers behind our plan.
rates to ensure continued alignment to the market.
The focus is oncash and variable pay rather than xed benets.
The reward In addition, we have introduced a number of core development package includes an annual performance-driven bonus, based on modules for many of our people to support individual development personal and Company performance, and grants of performance including development planning workshops and an introduction shares, which encourages all our people to contribute towards to project management.
High performance culture We once again offered all our people the opportunity to join our We have continued our focus on engagement as there are proven popular all-employee share plans.
These help to increase links between an engaged workforce and excellence in customer engagement and commitment to easyJet and contribute to service and business delivery.
We saw an encouraging uplift in the Company success.
Company engagement survey in October 2011 to 40% from 23% The plans have won five major awards to date, and involve three in September 2010 as measured by the AonHewitt say stay strive elements: Save As You Earn SAYE : Buy As You Earn BAYE and model of engagement.
There is still a lot of work to do and each Performance Shares.
During the year, all eligible employees were department across the Company had its own improvement plan offered the equivalent of two weeks salary in the form of which was actively managed throughout the year.
At the time of writing, we have just received top level results for Each scheme is Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC ourSeptember 2012 survey.
Disappointingly, but perhaps not approved and is open to all our people on the UK payroll.
For our surprisingly given the tough climate, our top level results have people who are on non-UK payrolls, international schemes have dropped by 3% on the previous year.
The leadership team are been established with similar terms and conditions to the UK committed to understanding the feedback from the survey and to scheme, albeit without the UK tax benets.
Participation in the work with our people to continue to drive a culture of engagement schemes remains very strong, with over 85% of our eligible people across all parts of the airline.
taking part in one or more of the plans.
As in previous years we have continued with our various internal easyJet offers a small number of Company provided benets in line communications channels such as the CEO weekly call, news with our cost focused approach.
These include insurances and round-ups, AMB base visits and community based newsletters, access to staff travel at cost price.
toensure that we share our thinking and business successes with allofour people.
Our UK people are also eligible to participate in a Group personal pension towards which easyJet contributes to, as well as having the In the spirit of partnership we have spent a lot of time this year option to make their own contributions through salary sacrifice.
indialogue with our employee representatives and union Inthe UK we have also been able to facilitate a number of additional representatives across Europe.
We have also established a new exible benets under our Benets4me programme.
These enable European Works Council which met for the first time in May 2012.
Corporate responsibility easyJet plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2012 our people to access programmes and savings which would not be Community and charitable activities available to them on an individual basis, without additional cost to 2012 has been an important year for easyJet and its charity easyJet.
These include our popular environmentally friendly Cycle 2 workwith a renewed focus on charitable activities across the Work scheme and a carbon offsetting scheme.
programme was also in place in the year offering discounts on a UNICEF our new charity wide range of products and services.
In 2012 easyJet formed a partnership with UNICEF, the worlds Our people make further savings in tax and National Insurance for leading organisation for children.
The partnership runs across many of these exible benets, through salary sacrifice.
easyJets easyJets pan-European network during the peak summer and National Insurance savings contribute to the nancing of the winter seasons.
scheme, which is fully outsourced.
The programme is branded Change for Good and offers all our Equality and diversity customers the chance to support the worlds children simply by easyJet is an equal opportunities employer and our people and dropping their spare change into specially designed pouches, which applicants are treated fairly and equally regardless of their age, are handed out by easyJets crew during ights.
The money raised colour, creed, disability, full or part time status, gender, marital status, through donations from easyJet customers will fund UNICEFs nationality or ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual orientation.
life-saving work for children across the world, such as vaccinating Applications from disabled people are always fully considered, children at risk from diseases such as measles and polio or providing bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
mosquito nets to prevent malaria.
Capitalising on what is unique about individuals and drawing on their We have chosen to focus on immunisation projects in the hope different perspectives and experiences adds value to the way we do of saving the lives of over a million children across the world.
We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide us with response by our people and passengers has been overwhelming.
an insight into different markets and help us anticipate and provide To date easyJet has raised as part of this campaign over 800,000. what our customers want from us.
The Company has also provided over 15,000 ofbenets in kind, and given the initiative visibility through various channels including Senior management team the in-ight magazine Traveller.
easyJet has also provided free ights in support of UNICEFs work.
% Female 26 Since the partnerships launch a series of road shows have taken Male 74 place across our European bases to raise the partnerships prole with our own people.
Our aim into next year is to raise more funds than any other UNICEF Change for Good partner in the world.
New easyJet European Charity Committee set-up This past year a dedicated European Charity Committee was set upto oversee the partnership with UNICEF and any additional charitable actions.
This committee includes representatives from across the whole of our airline.
One of the outcomes has been the creation of a special fund where staff members from across Europe can apply for access to funds to support their local charities and communities.
easyJet Support for local communities % We have continued to provide support at local community level Female 45 through a variety of unplanned and planned initiatives.
In May 2012 Male 55 Italy was struck by a tragic earthquake which impacted the lives of thousands of people in the Emilia Romagna region.
easyJet decided to carry out a special onboard collection on its Italian ights to support the victims of this tragedy.
We raised over 70,000 in support of the Italian Red Cross work in this region.
In addition, easyJet has sponsored a number of local community based events and activities such as Manchester and Brighton PRIDE to reect our diversity, the Edinburgh International Film Festival 2012 to reect our position as Scotlands leading airline, the Love Luton city status campaign because of our historic links to Luton, and the Daily Mirror Pride of Northern Ireland awards to name a few.
