easyJet plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility continued Political donations Aviation and the environment easyJet does not make donations to any political party.
This in not Aviation has three main environmental impacts: inline with our values and would be deemed as inappropriate.
On climate change Gifts and gratuities Aviation contributes to climate change through both the direct easyJet employees are sometimes sent gifts from various emission of CO2 from fuel burn, and due to other non-CO2 effects companies throughout the year.
In order to provide clear guidance from the emission of Nitrogen Oxides NOx, particles and aerosols to employees and avoid potential conicts of interest, we have a and cloud formation.
The science surrounding the impact of strict policy that prevents any employee accepting gifts over a aviations CO2 emissions is very well developed, while the science nominal value of 35.
Every Christmas and less frequently, at surrounding non-CO2 effects remains uncertain.
It is clear however various times through the year easyJet holds a staff rafe of all the that the long-lasting impact is from CO2 emissions.
CO2 passenger Km g easyJet and the environment 110 104.5 98.8 95.7 95.56 90.31 87.3 84.4 84.6 85.48 efficiency is in our DNA and this applies to our environmental impact as well.
We believe the most important environmental issue facing the industry is climate change and addressing our environmental impact is part of our responsibility as an airline.
As an airline easyJet is constrained in what it can do in the area of CSR as we are heavily constrained by the technology available to us, the development of which is a highly regulated and lengthy process.
This also means that every year is often more of the same, in other words we continue to focus on being as efficient as possible and making steady gains, rather than outlining eye catching initiatives 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 that in reality would have little impact.
Fuel is our largest single cost item, so we are heavily incentivised On local air quality tominimise its use and therefore CO2 emissions.
Local air quality impacts arise from NOx emissions during aircraft take-offs and landings.
We have upgraded 57% of our engines with As we continue to grow we are replacing less efficient operators the tech insertion upgrade.
This reduces emissions but also reduces across Europe, and therefore reducing emissions on those NOx emissions by 10%.
These engines are the best in class and help routeswhere we are replacing capacity provided by inefficient minimise our impact on local air quality.
On noise levels Environment Aircraft noise clearly has an impact on residents around airports.
The aim of our business is to be as efficient as we can be this easyJet complies with local rules that govern noise at airports applies to our environmental impact as well.
Our environmental suchas curfews and routings to avoid built up areas.
Our aircraft policy is governed by three promises: meet the tightest international noise standards ICAO chapter 4.
Our focus on improving the efficiency of our ying has also reduced A To be efficient in the air our noise impact: by changing the ap settings used for landings A To be efficient on the ground wehave both improved fuel efficiency and reduced noise levels.
A To lead the move to more efficient ying We believe the most significant environmental impact is on climate change.
This is the dominant global environmental issue, and it also We have also focused on ensuring the industry plays its role in is of long-term strategic importance to the airline industry.
We have tackling climate change.
This year was the first year that aviation therefore focused our reporting and public policy work on this issue.
played a full role in the European Unions Emission Trading System EU ETS, as carriers are required to have carbon permits for all Why the environment matters ights at EUairports.
This is an important step as it ensures that Addressing our environmental impact is clearly part of our aviation is helping to tackle climate change, and means that we responsibility as an airline.
However, it is also a business imperative.
can now pushfor the removal of inefficient taxes such as the UKs Environmental concerns have a significant impact on public policy Air Passenger Duty.
towards aviation, from restrictions on airport expansion to passenger taxes.
It is therefore in our own interest to ensure that both we and To signicantly reduce our environmental impact further will require the wider industry properly address environmental concerns.
This is technological change across the industry, so our environment why we have focused on considering public policy solutions to the policy focuses on these long-term gains.
Progress over time and environmental data Over the last ten years easyJet has successfully improved our CO 2 efficiency every year.
However, in 2012 easyJets emissions per passenger km the standard industry measure of efficiency rose from 84.6g km in 2011 to 85.5g km.
The reects a further shortening of stage-lengths and the business focus on primary airports, which by their nature tend to have long taxi-times.
