BUSINESS REVIEW FIELD LIFE EXTENSIONS THISTLE LIFE EXTENSION LLX EnQuests commitment to investing in mature infrastructure Thistle is a prime example of how torealise untapped production potential is exemplied weareable to recover more oil from byitsThistle Late Life Extension LL: project.
This large scaleprogramme extends the eld life and realises reserves.
mature assets through a combination of 3roduction from Thistle, which was installed in 1976, had been indecline before EnQuest instigated this multi-faceted innovative ways of working and technical revitalisation project.
It demonstrates what EnQuest The first phase was a successful rig reactivation project and does best and underlines our long term thesubsequent drilling of five new wells, resulting in a rise in commitment to the North Sea.
production levels not seen since the 1990s.
Drilling operations were not only characterised by efficiency and excellent results, but by exceptional safety performance the team recorded five years free of any lost time incidents LTIs.
The subsequent stages of Thistle LL: involve a programme Barrels of oil ofcoordinated enhancements to the infrastructure and to key systems.
The first major element of this programme saw the successful installation of a new power generation turbine and million barrels of oil local equipment room, signicantly enhancing power supply in terms of capacity and reliability.
The installation and heavy lift 3 produced in 2012 required careful planning and was awlessly executed by a team who demonstrated many EnQuest values, such as agility, collaboration and creativity.
Other elements of the programme include a process simplication exercise to create a t-for-purpose plant environment, a new process control and safety system, Reactivation of drill rig topsidesintegrity work, and structure focused workscopes tomaintain the jacket integrity of the asset.
The latter stages ofthe programme were signicantly bolstered in early 201 when it was announced that EnQuest had secured a browneld tax allowance in support of its plans to maximise recovery from Thistle.
EnQuest is among the first operators to secure the allowance, which is one of a series of UK Government measures aimed at stimulating growth in the North Sea, and enables the business to commit fully to a new phase of investment.
Process simplication Power upgrade SEE MORE ABOUT OUR OPERATIONS ON P2431 EnQuest PLC 8 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Installation of Thistles new gas turbine generator TH THI IS STLE D TLE fide EVE VERO RON N THISTLE LLX visit the multimedia section ofenTuest.
com for more information on the LLX project.
"How will Thistle benefit Why has this project been from the LLX late life so successful to date"" extension upgrades"" From the outset, we sought to engage everyone involved in When feasibility studies originally dialogue about how we could identied that Thistles eld life could makeThistle better how we be extended by a further 15 years or couldrecover those extra barrels."
more, EnQuest was quick to seize on this substantial opportunity to add We knew the principles: we needed value and to recognise its potential people to share the vision, we for other maturing elds.
needed the processes, and we needed to create a cycle of policy The Thistle LLX upgrades setting and practical improvements enhanceasset integrity and allow to drive change.
Once those were forthe further safe extraction established, we knew operational ofhydrocarbons.
This project excellence would emerge.
demonstrates EnQuests continued belief in the future of the North Sea.
Name: Mark Bayman EnQuest position: Name: Michele Eaves Thistle Area Manager EnQuest position: Browneld Project Manager EnQuest PLC 9 Annual Report 2012
