28 Business review Corporate responsibility 201112 Performance: 201213 Priorities: Expansion of healthcare initiatives and medical Our priorities in terms of building a sustainable facilities in villages and communities around the business remain consistent.
They are: sites at the Vadinar renery, the Salaya, Mahan and To ensure health and safety remains the number Tori power projects and the Raniganj gas block one priority, with senior management taking the lead Increased provision for education and entrepreneurship initiatives To build on the healthcare provision and medical facilities we provide to communities around our Good progress towards a robust greenhouse gas operating and construction sites management system To further develop environmental initiatives and Excellent health and safety record again Vadinar improve infrastructure around our sites renery at 1,460 LTI free days and Stanlow renery at 794 LTI free days.
Essar Power To continue investment in schools and childrens operations at Hazira at 3,584 LTI free days education, adult education facilities and entrepreneurship in the communities where we Introduction of new people development initiatives have a presence across Essar Energy, principally in internal talent development and learning To develop people and to maximise the array of talent within Essar Energy Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 29 Committed to sustainability Essar Energy is the first to recognise Our first sustainability report carries a the degree of challenge associated great deal more detail on all of our CSR with building and operating a major activities.
While this is a positive step portfolio of oil and gas, exploration and forward, we recognise that we have a production and power assets in India.
great deal more to improve on what we Such large-scale activities, more than do and the quality of reporting in the most, inevitably impact the people and vital areas of our business.
This section communities in the areas where they of the main annual report is intended to take place.
summarise our approach, policies and performance across the principal areas We are equally clear that the Company of health and safety, the environment and its employees must meet these and our communities, including our 3E challenges, and ensure that our framework spanning entrepreneurship, strategy, business and operations are environment and education.
founded on a culture of responsible behaviour towards all our stakeholders.
Health and safety We know that without this, we cannot Health and safety continues to be one More broadly, health and safety training create sustainable value.
of our critical sustainability priorities.
is carried out through a variety of The objective is an injury-free and means, including online, classroomAs we make clear in our accompanying healthy workplace, promoted by based and on site.
During the 15 first annual sustainability report, institutionalising a culture of safety.
month period to March 2012, there published in tandem with this main Health and safety is an integral part of were 5,146 health and safety training annual report, there has been the management of business and is sessions given to employees, against significant progress in seeking to given equal importance alongside 3,703 the previous year, and 5,504 meetthese objectives.
Our 201112 profits, costs, production and quality.
sessions given to contractors, against sustainability report can be accessed 4,961 the previous year.
During the 15 month period to March2012, there was a particular The result has been a very low level Our aim is to ensure we have a focus on managing safety issues of incidents.
There were only six LTI positiveimpact whether on among contractors.
Here, there is an incidents across the entire business individuals, communities or the ongoing push to ensure competency in the financial year 201112. environment and that by careful assessments are carried out for those management, we minimise risks.
involved in safety critical jobs and these were made mandatory for certain trades How can we do this?
One way is to such as riggers, crane operators, continually benchmark ourselves welders and electricians.
against best practices in our industries and in our communities, whether in India or overseas.
Another way is to Further investment in keep challenging ourselves to do better, to ask how performance can education is one of our beimproved and to encourage positivechange.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 30 Business review Corporate responsibility Environment Given the need for businesses of allkinds to make a real contribution totackling climate change and the importance of this to business performance and growth in future, Essar Energy has taken action and will continue to take action to ensure it is well positioned.
After a detailed structured GHG accounting process and disclosure atthe CDP, following international protocols, Essar Oil, Essar Power andEssar Oil UK are working towards arobust GHG management system.
This is aimed at delivering results on ayear on year basis and to show theirpositioning in relation to industry standards.
CDP ranked Essar Oil the best in carbon management in India in the energy sector during the year 2011.
Essar Oil gradually intends to build GHG reduction targets to operational levels, requiring each operation to assess their There are several strands to our respective GHG performance and to look for best practices to monitor, drive to increase our support for inventories, report and own the GHG emissions due to its operations.
the communities in which we operate.
Among these, we see encouraging entrepreneurship as highly important.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 31 The accompanying sustainability Case study report details Essar Oils GHG strategy as well as a large number of other environmental initiatives which are continuing across Essar Energy including pollution prevention, air quality, and protection of water resources and biodiversity.
Community There are several strands to our driveto increase our support for the communities in which we operate.
This is something that can enable entire communities especially when combined with improvements in education, infrastructure, increasing womens empowerment and betterhealthcare.
Essar Energy is active in developing initiatives in all of these areas, with a Health and Safety at Stanlow particular focus on communities or individuals in India from whom land has Essar Energys Stanlow renery has renery to train young apprentices, been acquired to facilitate development been lauded by the leader of a top whose work will engage them in of the Companys operations and in UK health and safety organisation some tasks where health and safety neighbouring communities.
Projects and has broken new records for its really can be a matter of life or death.
include provision of water supplies to safety track record.
villages in times of drought, strong Ms Hackitt, who herself worked in support of various kinds for schools Stanlow, acquired by Essar Energy the chemical industry for more than and establishment or support for on 31 July 2011, has registered no LTI 30 years, said that it was crucial that institutions which can help develop incidents since the acquisition, and the risks involved in working on entrepreneurial and business skills.
overall has recently passed 10 million hazardous processes were properly man hours without an LTI incident.
As understood and praised Stanlows renery general manager Jon Mason approach to this.
She stressed that Again, more detail on these initiatives is told a town hall meeting of all workers, health and safety should not be seen laid out in our sustainability report at this represents more than two years as an add-on but as a fundamental www.
without an LTI incident and shatters part of doing a job and went on to the record for the site.
say that this was a key element of apprenticeship training, to ensure Stanlow was visited recently by the that young apprentices learned chair of the UKs Health and Safety how to carry out their roles safely Executive, Judith Hackitt, who and efficiently.
praised the work taking place at the Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
