Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Corporate Responsibility 43 Filtrona recognises the signicance and importance of being a responsible Ongoing initiatives are designed to monitor, assess and drive performance.
corporate citizen in the workplace, marketplace, environment and community.
Investigations are carried out into all circumstances that may have resulted The Companys international operations full their responsibility to record, in injury or near miss incidents.
Continued reporting of near miss incidents monitor and make publicly available the potential impact of its activities.
and non work related injuries has enhanced the Companys ability to In pursuing its corporate strategy, Filtronas aim is to adopt business learn from potentially hazardous conditions and prevent their reoccurrence practices that are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable, or escalation into more serious incidents.
and to promote these to its stakeholders in order to strengthen relationships, share knowledge and encourage best practice.
The Group-wide intranet-based management reporting system facilitates an extensive live programme of active monitoring, that measures in detail The Companys risk management processes include consideration of the how successful the Company is in managing the safety of its workplaces potential impact of corporate responsibility issues on Filtronas performance.
The Companys investment decisions take into account appropriate evaluations of the potential consequences for its employees, customers Filtrona has an established Group Health, Safety & Environmental Council and suppliers and the environment.
the FHSEC which is an international group and includes senior operating management from all divisions.
The FHSECs primary task is to review The Filtrona Values are fundamental to the Companys adoption of progress with the implementation of Health, Safety & Environment the highest standards of business ethics and integrity that underpin its HS&E policy and performance and set objectives and standards for the relationships with both internal and external stakeholders.
The FHSEC meets bi-annually and discusses the physical, is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
Employees are encouraged regulatory and financial risks associated with all HS&E issues including to act fairly in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, suppliers climate change.
There is a mechanism for identifying and allocating suitable and business partners.
resources to specically identify risks and for reporting to the Board.
With effect from 1 January 2013, the new Group Operations Director will work The Filtrona Values can be found on the Companys website alongside the Chief Executive in being responsible for Group health and www.
The FHSEC will be amalgamated into the quarterly operations meetings which are planned for 2013.
Workplace The Company manages occupational health by identifying key risk activities, Health and safety undertaking health assessments and, where appropriate, implementing Filtronas overriding commitment in the workplace continues to be the health surveillance programmes.
The Company has achieved the health, safety and welfare of its employees and all those who visit the Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001 for all Companys operations.
Filtrona has an excellent health and safety record, its principal manufacturing sites except Bridlington, UK, which is currently and a culture of safety is deeply embedded within the Group.
The Board being progressed and expected to reach the standard during the year.
provides health and safety leadership and the Chief Executive has primary The recently acquired sites are given a period of two years to reach the responsibility for setting the principal health and safety objectives within required standard, in accordance with Filtrona policy.
which the detailed policies operate, and for reviewing progress against those objectives.
As part of their integration, all businesses which join the Filtrona Group have to ensure that they achieve the Companys health and safety reporting The Company has designed procedures and developed a culture which requirements within a suitable timescale.
aims for continuous improvement with the sharing of best practice in all areas of health and safety, in addition to strict compliance with applicable Businesses undertake extensive training programmes which are particularly laws and regulations.
The degree of autonomy afforded to local management focused on the key, or most frequent, risks in their operations.
Training in allows them to set the agenda best suited to the requirements of individual risk assessment and root-cause analysis features strongly in the Companys businesses, but subject always to the proper implementation of the core health and safety management.
health and safety policies and principles which Filtrona has adopted.
Details of the Companys health and safety performance for 2012 and subsequent progress throughout 2013 can be viewed on the Companys website www.
Accident trend average incidents 2008 27.3 2009 21.9 2010 22.7 2011 22.1 2012 22.9 Lost time accident trend incidents 2008 3.4 2009 3.2 2.6 2010 2.2 2011 2.3 2012 22.9 44 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued The Company has implemented Filtrona Group Safety Awards which The Company regularly reviews its organisational structure to ensure that reward manufacturing sites with Gold, Silver or Bronze status on the basis the business has the necessary personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
of their annual performance assessed against increasingly stringent criteria set by the FHSEC.
The criteria governing these awards is based upon: Filtrona understands the importance of having the right people with the achieving a high Filtrona audit score: OHSAS standard accreditation: regular right skills now and in the future to deliver the exceptional service and health and safety meetings: availability of suitably trained employees on expertise which is the bedrock of our long-term relationships with our site: completion of all critical risk assessments: and achieving accident customers.
To deliver that service and expertise, Filtrona is continually reduction targets.
improving its comprehensive talent pool, from graduates to senior management.
Filtrona runs a very successful graduate training programme 2012 2011 2010 which, historically, recruited from Europe and North Americas.
2011 saw the introduction of graduates from Asia, and during 2012 this was further Gold awards 10 715 expanded to include candidates from South America.
Silver awards 5 95 Bronze awards 7 52 Key strategic aspects of recruitment, training and development are overseen or co-ordinated at a Group level to ensure consistency of approach, to The Filtrona Chief Executives Special Award for health, safety and identify strategic threats and opportunities and to open up a wider range environment recognises the achievements of the division or site that of opportunities for our employees.
best meets the following criteria: Filtrona encourages its employees to develop and manage their own t Demonstrates a significant impact on work methods or behaviours, careers.
It facilitates this by providing relevant job training and, where resulting in improvements to employee perception of health, safety appropriate, aims to ll vacancies with existing staff where employees and environment standards are suitably qualied and experienced.
t Involves the majority of employees t Utilises novel or interactive media or methods Filtrona is committed to improving employee engagement and learning more about the needs of its workforce.
In addition to the impact of the In 2012, the award was won by the Moss Plastic Parts Moss business training and development programmes, employee engagement is enhanced based at Kidlington, for being the first facility in the Group to be accredited by the communication practices which have been adopted across the to the ISO 50001 standard.
This important standard will establish a more businesses.
During the year Filtrona undertook its first Group-wide systematic and sustainable approach to managing energy.
Conformance to employee engagement survey, with 75% of the employees responding.
the standard provides evidence that the facility has implemented sustainable energy management systems, completed a baseline assessment of its energy Filtrona values highly the commitment of its employees and recognises the use, and is committed to continual improvement in energy performance.
importance of communication to good working relationships and practices.
The Company seeks to ensure that employees are informed on matters ISO 50001 is designed for widespread use by all types of organisations.
relating to their employment and on financial and economic factors If widely adopted, it is anticipated that it could inuence up to 60% of the affecting the businesses.
The Company actively seeks feedback and ideas worlds energy use across many economic sectors, and that it will become from employees to improve its operations, and forums appropriate increasingly prevalent globally.
The value of certication may be driven by to Filtronas local businesses have been established to allow employees potential utility incentive programmes requiring ISO 50001 certication and to voice their views as to how the Company should full the demands market forces within supply chains.
of all its local and international stakeholders.
The Companys European Information and Consultation Forum facilitates the discussion of issues The standard entails a series of processes that enable the business to develop across all of its operations in the European Union.
an energy management plan, and within this to identify areas at greatest risk, gain understanding of energy risk exposure and address significant The Company recognises the importance of, and the benets to be derived aspects of energy performance.
from, diversity across its international operations and is committed to offering equal opportunities to all people without discrimination of any With ever increasing energy costs and environmental legislation, it is prudent form.
Filtrona remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance and to invest in an effective energy management system for today.
does not include prescriptive energy performance targets, rather it provides a framework through which Moss can set and pursue its own goals for The Company gives full and fair consideration to employment applications improving energy performance without compromising the competitiveness by disabled people.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every of the business.
effort is made to ensure that the training, career development and promotion opportunities available to disabled persons are as far as possible Employees identical to those of other non-disabled employees.
Filtronas employees are a vital resource in the pursuit of operational excellence and the provision of quality products and service to its customers.
The skills Throughout its global activities Filtrona supports human rights as set down and expertise of Filtronas employees drive the innovation which enables by the United Nations Declaration and its applicable International Labour the Company to provide added value to its customers, enhance supply Organisation conventions.
Operations based in India, Indonesia, Jordan chain logistics with its suppliers and reduce the environmental impact and Thailand are also accredited to SA 8000 which details fundamental of its operations.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Corporate Responsibility 45 Marketplace The recently published CRC Performance League Table PLT ranked Filtrona in the top 10% of companies.
The 2012-13 PLT is based on actions Filtronas reputation with its customers and suppliers and in the that participants have taken to show that they are committed to energy communities where it operates, is based not only on the quality of efficiency within their organisations.
Participants get credit where they: its performance, but also on the integrity of its management of the workplace and the environment, and its ethical and responsible conduct t Have a proportion of their CRC emissions certied under one of the in the marketplace.
The development and continuation of long-term seven carbon management schemes which the Environment Agency business relationships reects the trust placed in the Company, and such has accredited commitments are an important component in the ongoing success of t Have a proportion of their CRC electricity and gas supplies measured the Company.
through voluntarily installed automatic meter reading devices, dynamic un-metered supply and daily read gas meters in year one Filtronas Code of Business Ethics is applicable to all its businesses around the world.
The policy details the standards expected by Filtrona in the Given the diversity of Filtronas international operations, local management conduct of its business and its relationships with third parties, including drives environmental performance based on divisional objectives set in free and fair competition, the prohibition of bribery and political donations, accordance with Filtronas environmental policy.
Copies of the policy and provides general guidance on honest and fair dealings with suppliers, can be found on the Companys website www.
customers and local and national authorities.
Filtrona uses a variety of indicators relevant to each of the operating Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to ensure the welfare of divisions to monitor environmental performance, but the following workers and employment conditions within its supply chain meet or exceed core impacts are identied for the Group as a whole: internationally recognised standards.
t Greenhouse gas emission from energy use, including electricity, Environment natural gas, heating fuel, transport and travel t Use of resources, including water Filtrona applies a structured approach to minimising its environmental t Generation and disposal of waste impact by: Filtrona is continually seeking to ensure reduction in its use of natural t Implementing and maintaining formal environmental systems resources, and has established research and development facilities in the accredited to ISO 14001 on a global basis UK, Asia and the US to investigate the use of renewable resources and t Measuring consumption and emissions, and setting targets recyclable biodegradable versions of products.
to improve performance t Carrying out environmental impact assessments and developing 2012 2011 % change 1 site management plans Carbon emissions 120 118 1.69 t Providing training to employees and engaging with customers 2 General waste 2,080 2,436 14.61 and suppliers to raise environmental awareness Recycled factory waste 1,031 957 7.73 t Providing facilities to segregate and reuse or recycle waste 3 & cardboard 4 3 3 Water 185m 221m 16.29 Filtrona is listed in the FTSE4Good Index which is designed to measure the performance of companies striving to meet globally recognised corporate 1 tonnes of CO per million of Group revenue 2 responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in those companies 2 tonnes of waste to landll where corporate responsibility issues are an inuencing factor in an 3 tonnes of production waste investors decision-making process.
4 per million of Company revenue Filtrona supports the activities of the Carbon Trust and participated in the Filtrona is committed to ensuring good environmental practice at all 10th annual Carbon Disclosure Project CDP environmental impact survey.
its locations, and in its operational processes and investment decisions.
It is the Companys intention to participate in the CDP survey during 2013.
Filtronas principal manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 accredited, and all of the Companys European businesses comply with EU and domestic The UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC legislation became waste management regulations.
This standard ensures commitment to an improved carbon footprint and enhanced reputation.
The CRC is designed to drive Due to the scale of Filtronas international operations, the use of energy energy efficiency and carbon reduction by giving organisations a financial has both environmental and commercial importance.
Where possible, incentive through emissions trading.
Filtrona continues to apply the and nancially viable, energy from renewable resources is utilised to principles of the CRC to its global operations and will be well placed to limit environmental impact, commercial risk and costs.
address future anticipated legislative changes in its operating regions.
Filtrona actively engages with its employees, customers and suppliers to exploit opportunities offered by new technologies, improved process operations and novel materials, to reduce its environmental impact and improve profitability further.
Supplier standards are subject to review by the Companys employees who audit their environmental credentials.
46 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued The FHSEC provides an opportunity to share best environmental practices and waste minimisation initiatives across all the Companys sites.
Filtrona is committed to respecting the environment and seeking practical ways ISO 50001 Energy to lessen the impact of its business activities.
The Group Environmental Management System Moss Award has been designed to give additional recognition to those sites with projects or campaigns that further that objective, and is presented to the Plastic Parts, Kidlington, UK most successful and innovative environmental improvement or initiative on a site or division which meets one or more of the following criteria: t Reduction in emissions t Re-cycling of waste product Certication t Waste reduction The Moss facility at Kidlington, UK successfully t Energy efficiency gained ISOQAR certication to the ISO 50001 energy t efficient use of raw material management system in November 2012.
Energy is t Use of bio-degradable materials recognised as a critical component of the business operations at Moss, and ISO 50001 is fully And which impacts one or all of: compatible with other management systems certications already held.
t Local community t Local ecology Energy savings t Public perception of the business Some of the projects to date include installing: t profitability of the Company t Energy efficient lights t Power optimisers on moulding machines In 2012 the Group Environmental Award was awarded to Porous t Insulation of barrel heaters Technologies, Reinbek, Germany for an Energy Management System that t Ambient temperature controllers has reduced and controlled energy consumption by 30kW per annum.
t Heating central control programmer t Air leak detection equipment Community t Speed doors t Energy awareness campaigns Filtronas commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen extends t Energy reduction pledge to support for appropriate non-political and non-sectarian projects across a range of organisations and charities.
Regardless of regional or national The Energy Management System has provided a boundaries, the Company aims to support the creation of prosperous, framework to make a positive contribution towards educated, sustainable and healthy communities in the countries and reducing the depletion of energy resources and cultures in which it operates.
In its attempts to bring benets back to mitigating the effects of energy use.
Certication to the those communities whose support provides a basis for Filtronas success, standard provides evidence that Moss has implemented the Company has focused on education and enterprise, health and welfare sustainable energy management systems, completed and the environment, with support driven at a local, rather than a a baseline assessment of its energy use and is actively corporate level.
The approach is to support and enhance employee efforts seeking continual improvement in energy performance.
in their communities through the application of the Companys resources.
It is a clear statement to the sites customers, stakeholders In pursuit of its aims within the community, Filtrona has developed and employees that the business is committed to targeted programmes for local communities, often involving commercial reducing its environmental impact to meet expectations sponsorship and significant employee engagement through direct and obligations now and in the future.
Key benets of ISO 50001 Ethics t Affect behavioural change to reduce energy consumption Filtronas culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
Employees t Build energy management into business practices are required to act fairly in their dealings with fellow colleagues, suppliers, t Optimise energy-consuming assets customers and business partners.
All employees undertake training on the t Improve operations and capital cost decisions Companys Code of Business Ethics which is updated annually.
In addition t Improve the ability to benchmark, measure and all employees are required to review and confirm their acceptance of critical report energy improvements Group policies, with the majority of employees being required to review t Help prioritise new energy-efficient technologies and accept all of the Group policies.
Filtrona operates a condential t Structure approach to identifying, measuring and whistleblowing policy called Right to Speak, with an external call centre managing energy consumption which enables all Group employees to raise any concerns.
t Facilitate integration with other ISO management standards Filtrona adopts a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption which extends to all business dealings and transactions in which the Company is involved.
This includes prohibiting political donations, offering or receiving inappropriate gifts and making facilitation payments.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Corporate Responsibility 47 Divisional quality and performance ratings Protection & Finishing Products Coated & Security Products OHSAS OHSAS ISO 9000 ISO 14001 18001 ISO 9000 ISO 14001 18001 BRC IOP SA 8000 Moss Kidlington tt t Payne Nottingham tt t t Alliance Erie tt t Payne Banbury tt t Duraco Chicago tt t Payne Cardiff tt t Duraco Europe t Payne Richmond tt t MSI Houston tt t Payne So Paulo tt t MSI Veracruz tt t Payne Bangalore tt t t Richco Spain tt t Payne Surabaya tt t t Richco Xiamen t t Porous Technologies Filter Products Integrated OHSAS ISO ISO OHSAS Management SA ISO 9000 ISO 14001 18001 9000 14001 18001 System 8000 IQRS Porous Technologies Richmond ttt UK tt t 7 Porous Technologies Ningbo ttt Italy tt t t 7 Porous Technologies Reinbek ttt Jordan tt t t t Porous Technologies St Charles ttt Hungary tt t t 5 Porous Technologies Korea ttt US tt t t 7 Lymtech scientific Thailand tt t t t 5 Indonesia tt t t t 6 In accordance with Group policy the site has two years from acquisition India tt t t t 7 to achieve certications Paraguay tt t t Includes Jarrow and Filters Technology Centre ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental performance OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for occupational health and safety commitment and performance SA 8000 is the international standard for human rights principles IQRS is a global quality system which drives towards business excellence through a comprehensive audit system BRC IOP is the global standard for packaging and packaging materials Integrated management system 48 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Group Management Committee 01 02 03 04 05 06 01 02 03 Colin Day Matthew Gregory Alan Tidy Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Human Resources Director Colins biographical details Matthews biographical details Alan Tidy joined Filtrona in 2005 as Group can be found on page 50. can be found on page 51.
Alan was previously HR Director at Wagon plc, prior to which he held divisional HR roles at Caradon plc and Rio Tinto plc.
Alan is Chairman of the Filtrona UK Pension Trustee Board and a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
04 05 06 Russ Rogers PT Sreekumar Matt Taylor President, Porous Technologies Managing Director, Filter Products Managing Director, Component Distribution Russ Rogers joined Filtrona in 1997 as Director PT Sreekumar joined Filtrona in 1995, being Matt Taylor joined Filtrona in 1987, and became of Manufacturing on the acquisition of American initially responsible for the Companys joint a Regional Sales Manager for the Moss Plastic Filtrona Corporation.
Before being appointed venture in India.
Before being appointed to his Parts business the following year.
Before being to his current role in 2003, Russ performed current role in 2005, Sreekumar was Regional appointed to his current role in 2010, Matt held increasingly senior roles in engineering, logistics, Director for Asia Pacic, responsible for the a variety of increasingly senior roles in sales and purchasing and manufacturing in the Porous business in Asia and the Middle East.
Prior marketing in Component Distribution.
to joining Filtrona, Sreekumar worked for the Indian tobacco company Godfrey Philips.
