Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials Sustainable development review ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 This review presents the headlines of our performance and the progress we have made in sustainable development during 2012.
Further information will be available in our second Sustainable Development Report.
We continue to develop the principles and at an operational level is the responsibility Key activities and actions necessary to be a sustainable of the Chief Executive Officer CEO.
progress in 2012 business, integrating these principles Sustainable development is implemented The highlights of our performance are into our strategy and operations.
through our corporate, divisional and line provided below.
Further details are set In 2012 we focused on gaining a better management teams, with support from out in our 2012 Sustainable Development understanding of stakeholder expectations.
regional and local sustainability champions.
Report, to be published shortly.
We also further formalised senior Operational meetings are held quarterly management accountability to support the with Operational and Divisional Directors, Safety implementation of required actions.
In line where major issues including safety, energy with our plan, we continued to improve We remain committed to improving the and community are discussed and HSEC our risk processes, in particular with safety of our employees and contractors performance monitored.
Working groups regard to safety, as well as developing and continue to progress our Group-wide led by senior management also meet the non-financial KPIs needed to support safety improvement programme with the regularly to focus on particular issues.
strategic and operational decision support of DuPont.
Despite our work, Topics covered during 2012 included making.
Embedding these principles and and in part due to extending reporting process safety management, maintenance actions is a challenging process that will definitions, our safety statistics in 2012 and contractor safety issues, local take considerable time.
Nevertheless deteriorated for contractor fatalities procurement, introduction of our Group we continue to take steps towards aligning and for work-related lost time injuries People Strategy, greenhouse gas GHG incentives, processes, systems and LTIs compared with 2011.
We were emissions and energy efficiency.
resources to create the accountability, saddened by the 18 fatalities that took capacity and transparency necessary place during the year 2011: 13, of which Performance summary to be a sustainable and resilient business, 10 were employees 2011: 11.
The number thereby supporting the achievement of our In 2012, we continued to report on eight of contractor fatalities was eight 2011:two.
out of the nine sustainability indicators We express our sincere condolences we reported on in 2011. to all of the families involved in these Strengthening sustainable tragic circumstances.
 LLP provided development governance assurance on our data for the second In 2012, we extended and clarified our consecutive year.
The Assurance Report To help us further embed sustainable definition of LTIs to improve alignment can be found on page 92.
Eight of the development, and as part with international practice: we now include indicators have been assured this year.
of ENRCs wider commitment to making exploration sites in our data.
There were While the Group continued to roll-out online 1 the Groups governance more robust 103 LTIs involving employees 2011: 64, training on anti-bribery and corruption and transparent, we strengthened and the LTI frequency rate was 0.72 2011: andENRCs Code of Conduct the 1 the composition of the Health, Safety, 0.50.
These numbers include all reported Trust, but Verify!
programme to relevant Environment and Community HSEC employee fatality cases.
As a result of the employees during 2012, this was not Committee.
Two independent nonincrease in fatalities, we remain focused assured in 2012 due to data loss during executive Directors joined the Committee on addressing the key risk areas and have a change in the IT platform for online bringing greater independent oversight prioritised the following: training see page 18 for further details.
of our approach, progress and performance.
At senior management Our updated HSEC Reporting level, developing the governance tools Principles, which provide the basis that support the integration of sustainable 1 2011 LTI number of 63 has been changed to forourreporting, are available at reflect the addition of one medical treatment case development, is part of the Chief Financial www.
This number does not Officers CFO responsibility, who reports include exploration sites in comparison to LTIs to the Chairman.
Sustainable development review continued 18 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Continued implementation of our Underground mining held the first meeting, for an initial group corporate safety standards In2012weconducted an assessment of of 16 participants, in Istanbul in November Corporate standards introduced in technological options to replace manual 2012.
We developed a Global Succession 2009 define minimum acceptable safety work and to eliminate the necessity to Plan, and identified future leaders to take standards in respect of key risk areas work in high hazard zones.
This included part in our Global Talent Management which have been the recurring cause the purchase of shaft machines for the Programme.
We also launched our Global of major incidents.
These include the handling of underground roofs and Graduate Programme to find and develop implementation of lock out systems for the crushing of oversized materials at the best mining engineers.
conveyors, fall from height protection Zhairemsky GOK.
Further assessment To reinforce our ethical commitments systems and introduction of a permitof technological options, including at and requirements, the Group continued to-work system.
Corporate standards Donskoy GOK, are currently underway.
its online training on anti-bribery and implementation consists of a series of Contractor management corruption and the Code of Conduct the stages being implemented over a six Themanagement of contractor safety Trust, but Verify!
programme to identified year programme.
Each stage indicates is not subject to regulatory control in employees during 2012.
The third party the level of standards implementation Kazakhstan, although it is in Africa and online training supplier who provides this from 0 to 100%.
A target for overall level Brazil.
As a result, under our former service changed the underlying system of standards implementation of 50% compliance based approach, contractors that retained records of those who had was set for 2012 and this was assessed did not receive significant attention in completed the training, and unfortunately by DuPont to be 57%.
We recognise that as part some of the systems-based records were 2013, all Divisions will need to update of our wider responsibilities stronger lost.
As a consequence, data has been their investment plans to address further management of contractors is required.
prepared manually and is not reliable deficiencies in standards implementation In 2012 we introduced minimum safety for disclosure.
In 2013, we are moving relating to high risk areas.
requirements in our contract terms to a new supplier to provide an enhanced Improvements in risk assessment and carried out contractor evaluations, online training application that will provide We developed a standard Group-wide inductions and monthly audits.
improved management information, safety risk register based on external which  LLP As well as continuing to focus on the benchmarking to enable better aims to assure.
We also implemented aboveitems, in 2013 we will further develop identification of risks at each stage of the our updated counterparty due diligence our formal governance arrangements production process.
This will be used as procedures in 2012. by reviewing the implementation of remedial a starting point for the development of steps following fatal events.
In addition, we We are committed to ensuring full divisional risk registers and as a reference will determine Group and divisional safety and fair consideration and treatment point for risk reviews as well as mitigation risk appetite and continue to work to of all our employees, including those plans for high hazard activities.
amend remuneration criteria for Divisional who apply for employment in any Improvements in Process Safety Directors in relation to safety.
We are committed Management PSM to uphold the UN Declaration on Human Forareasofnew and changed processes Rights.
We do not tolerate any form Employees we are proposing to set up specific line of discrimination or unfair treatment.
We employed 79,409 employees at the management accountabilities, develop Diversity and equality are an important end of 2012 2011: 74,989.
Around 84% procedures for assessing process part of our people management practices.
of our staff are located in Kazakhstan safety risks and develop structured and In 2012, female representation of our 150 withexpanding operations in Africa, documented control.
Training has been Group was 21%.
Our senior management particularly in the Democratic Republic conducted on sites based on real-life team also represents the cross-cultural of the Congo DRC.
scenarios to understand application diversity of the Group.
To address the challenges in attracting, In 2012, we strengthened our commitment retaining and developing people across Improvements in behavioural change to respecting and promoting employee the Group and ensuring we have effective Following a review of accidents, we rights through the introduction of our leaders to deliver our business objectives, identified a number of areas to address: Global People Policies, which set out we launched our Group People Strategy poor compliance with procedures minimum standards of acceptable in 2012.
This formally addresses our by individuals, lack of clearly defined behaviours.
We believe that all our people leadership culture, succession planning roles and responsibilities, lack of safety should be treated equally, with respect and development and recruitment leadership and functional capabilities of and dignity.
Our commitment to equality of future leaders.
We initiated our 150 key personnel.
Progressmade in 2012 is supported through giving full and Group Programme identifying senior includes involvement of the Executive fair consideration to applications for management roles critical to the success Committee in reviewing fatalities, and employment by disabled persons, having of ENRC and focused on the development continued progress in behavioural change regard to their particular aptitudes and of people in these roles.
To support through carrying out and analysing results abilities.
We require our entities to take all our leadership agenda we launched of behaviouralaudits.
reasonable steps to support employees a Strategic Leadership Programme and with physical or mental disabilities and Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 to implement reasonable adjustments 1 Performance indicators Units 2012 2011 to enable employees who suffer from any 2 Workforce Employees Number 79,409 74,989 medical condition affecting their ability 3 Fatalities Employees work-related Number 10 6 to do their job.
Fatalities Employees non work-related Number Not applicable 5 We use a number of communication 4 Fatalities Contractors Number 8 2 channels across the Group to keep our 6 Lost Time Injuries LTI Employees Number 103 64 people informed about developments 5 work-related including fatalities at ENRC.
At the same time we seek 6 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate not applicable 0.72 0.50 employee involvement via available LTIFR Employees work-related feedback mechanisms.
We also 5 including fatalities encourage employee engagement through 7 Community Social Investment US$ million 121 156 established systems of remuneration, Energy consumed TJ 296,351 293,300 training, employee committees, collective 8,9 production only agreements and consultations.
All our 8,9, 10 Greenhouse gas emissions Mt 27.4 26.9 employees have the right to enter into CO equivalency CO E 2 2 a collective agreement and or join a trade 3 Water withdrawn Million m 1,971 1,926 union.
Over 90% of ouremployees across 11 all our operations are members of trade People trained in Trust, but Verify!
Number Not available 3,734 ethics and conduct training unions.
We operate a whistleblowing hotline 1 6 that enables our people to confidentially Prepared in accordance with ENRCs Reporting The 2011 LTI number previously reported as 63 Principles available at www.
com csr reporting has been updated to reflect the addition of one raise any concerns or issues, including 2 Reported as at 31 December 2012.
Includes medical treatment case re-categorised as an LTI, issues relating to human rights.
All cases Brazil, SABOT and acquired entities including this has a corresponding impact on the 2011 LTIFR are investigated and reviewed.
Excludes number previously reported as 0.49.
7 ZholZhondeushi, which was sold by the Group The 2012 figure includes the US$65 million during the year.
contribution to support the development of the 3 Community Social 2012 reporting extended to include both Astana Opera House.
The 2011 figure includes the work-related and non work-related fatalities, all US$98 million contribution made to the Nazarbayev Investment CSI fatalities previously reported as non work-related Fund and US$20 million to the Astana Opera are now categorised as work-related.
Community development is a major part 8 activities are those where ENRC can set safety Includes production related activities only, excludes of our social responsibilities particularly standards and has the ability to influence safety risk exploration activities and corporate offices.
Further details are provided in ENRCs Includes direct and indirect energy sources.
in Kazakhstan, but increasingly in Africa 10 2012 Reporting Principles.
CO E is a quantity that describes, for a given 2 and Brazil.
In 2012, our worldwide CSI 4 The reporting of contractor fatalities includes work mixture and amount of greenhouse gas, the contributions were US$121 million 2011: and non work-related events.
amount of CO that would have the same global 2 5 LTI reporting has been extended in line with our warming potential, when measured over a specified US$156 million.
No donations were fatalities reporting see note 3.
LTIs for exploration timescale generally, 100years.
made to the Nazarbayev Fund during 11 sites are now included.
Data lost through transition to a new IT platform for 2012 2011: US$98 million.
of US$65 million 2011: US$20 million were made to the State Fund Centre of Complex Development Sary-Arka to fund the construction of the Astana Opera House.
To improve alignment of CSI to our any issues identified in the various internal Total donations up to 31 December 2012 business needs and also to strengthen the and external reviews and audits: and to fund this project are US$105 million.
communities near where we are located Start external engagement in Kazakhstan Excluding the contribution for the we commissioned a social baseline and Africa with a view to identifying longer development of the Astana Opera House assessment and stakeholder engagement term projects which will supportkeyrisks in Kazakhstan and to the Nazarbayev Fund, study in Kazakhstan with the support for the business andlocal needs.
our overall investment was US$56 million of KPMG.
Through the KPMG study 2011: US$38 million : this includes and internal and external audits US$5 million in Africa and US$2.5 million Energy consumption and of our CSI activities and procedures, in Brazil.
In Kazakhstan over 71% of our carbon impact a number of management and reporting investments were implemented through improvements were identified for The commercial and environmental ENRCs Corporate Foundation Komek : implementation during 2013, as follows: importance of energy use and carbon the majority of these are implemented emissions was emphasised by the Further improvement to Komeks through formal agreements signed Kazakhstan Governments approval governance arrangements: annually between the Group and regional of the Kazakhstan Emissions Trading governments.
Projects are selected Roll-out of our community strategy across Scheme ETS, to be introduced based on needs identified by the local the business: in 2013.
We participated in a number government and our Divisions.
In 2012, of consultations relating to the ETS, Work with our regional teams to finalise we supported a wide range of activities and believe that the final proposals our CSI procedures and reporting related to education, social welfare, social recognise some important considerations: guidelines ensuring they take into account cohesion, culture and arts, economic development and environment.
Sustainable development review continued 20 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Great Ormond Street Hospital As part of ENRCs Community Social Each year two different doctors will come Investment programme, the Group has to London for the programme, which has committed to a five year scholarship been developed in partnership with the programme at Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Tushinskaya Childrens Hospital Charitable This will allow up to 10 doctors from Kazakhstan TrustinKazakhstan.
to enhance their paediatric knowledge at one The Group also sponsored the ENRC Cardiac of the worlds leading childrens hospitals.
Day Care Unit within the hospitals new Morgan In2012, two doctors, Dr Ainur Aklhmetkaliyeva, Stanley Clinical Building, which opened on an oncologist, and Dr Jabaril Pogorov, a 14June 2012. neurologist, became the first to complete the 12week programme to develop their clinical skills in their respective fields.
Setting appropriate targets and Our energy efficiency programme Water defining reasonable scope for GHG has shown that there needs We are very conscious of global water reduction by different industries taking to be a far greater understanding of the concerns and recognise that many into consideration the economic need to reduce energy use across the of our operations are in water scarce and competitive impact and Group.
As a result, we are developing areas.
At present we do not experience available technologies: performance management processes and direct conflicts of demand for water systems to improve operating practices and Establishing a pilot period for testing the or pressures to change existing water maximise opportunities presented by asset methodologies and approaches defined management arrangements at any replacement programmes.
in the draft Kazakhstan ETS regulations, of our sites.
As a result, our strategy for including the National Allocation Plan: and In Kazakhstan, we started a process water use is to continue to manage our in 2012 to develop divisional level energy water demands to achieve a reasonable Ensuring proper consideration of potential efficiency targets.
Workshops were held minimum consumption.
tax implications of GHG regulations internally to increase visibility of the cost both in Kazakhstan and possible impact The Group abstracts over 95% of its of energy consumption and its effect of future international links between water from the Irtysh River, under licence, on production costs.
for cooling purposes at Eurasian Energy of our energy experts across all Divisions Corporation EEC.
We continue In 2012, we reviewed how in Kazakhstan also received training on the to operate extensive water reuse systems we could incorporate future carbon ISO 50001 EN16001: Energy Management at EEC to reduce demand for new water, costs in our decision-making processes Standard.
A key goal for 2013 is to develop particularly as water costs depend on the to ensure different options for responding a Group-wide procedure to include energy volume abstracted.
The 2% increase to carbon issues can be best assessed.
efficiency into the procurement criteria in power generation in 2012 increased Our commitment to transparency for new energy intensive equipment, Group water consumption to 1,971 million is reflected in our participation in the and develop asset maintenance and 3 3 m of water 2011: 1,926 million m. Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time.
renewal schedules for existing equipment with a high energy demand.
Our sites in Kazakhstan, Russia and We are undertaking a study to review the Africa were in compliance with local long-term impact of coal use compared Group energy consumption for 2012 was legal requirements in 2012.
We report with other potential energy sources 296,351 TJ 2011: 293,300 TJ, of which withdrawals and discharges monthly in Kazakhstan.
Various carbon cost 83% 2011: 83% was sourced from coal.
to the state regulators in Kazakhstan and scenarios are being considered, Total GHG emissions associated with Russia, and our Chambishi plant in Zambia together with the corresponding financial direct and indirect energy consumption has abstraction and discharge permits.
implications for our future power generation were 27.4 Mt of CO E 2011: 26.9Mt.
2 Currently neither abstraction nor discharge and other businesses.
The 0.5 Mt of CO E increase is due to both 2 permits are required in the DRC.
internal and external electricity demand.
04 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Operational review In this section: 22 Our business 24 Operational review 24 Ferroalloys Division 28 Iron Ore Division 32 Alumina and Aluminium Division 36 Other Non-ferrous Division 40 Energy Division 42 Logistics Division
