Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility The group is diverse and operates through Each ofce within the group is encouraged FTSE4Good a large number of businesses in many to reduce waste, reuse paper and only print geographical locations.
Each business provides documents and emails where necessary.
The The group was included important channels of communication to main ofces across the group also recycle for the first time in the different sections of society throughout the waste where possible.
This year the UK, US and FTSE4Good index in 2011 world.
The success of the groups businesses Canadian ofces recycled 91,000kg of paper and continues to be a owes much to understanding and engaging and card, which is equivalent to more than constituent of the index in with the communities they serve both locally 1,000 trees.
The group has maintained its ESG rating and globally.
of 3 5 and increased its group percentile rating from 39% to 51% in the ICB Global Super Carbon footprint The paragraphs below provide more detailed Sector.
explanations on key areas of corporate The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and FTSE Group confirms that Euromoney Institutional responsibility.
General Trust plc group DMGT, participates in Investor PLC has been independently assessed a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint analysis according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied completed by ICF International.
This exercise the requirements to become a constituent of the Environmental has been undertaken every year since 2006 FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index responsibility using the widely recognised GHG protocol company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in The group does not operate directly in industries methodology developed by the World Resource companies that meet globally recognised corporate where there is the potential for serious industrial Institute and the World Business Council for responsibility standards.
It does not print products in-house or Sustainable Development.
Index Series have met stringent environmental, social have any investments in printing works.
It takes and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise its environmental responsibility seriously and In addition, the company, through DMGT, is part on the benets of responsible business practice.
complies with all relevant environmental laws and of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and has regulations in each country in which it operates.
been submitting full responses to them since Social responsibility Wherever economically feasible, account is 2007 and is included in the FTSE CDP Carbon taken of environmental issues when placing Strategy Index Series.
The group continues to expand its charitable contracts with suppliers of goods and services activities and raised over 1 million for local and and these suppliers are regularly reviewed and The directors are committed to reducing the international charitable causes during the year.
For instance, the groups two biggest groups carbon emissions and managing its These contributions came from Euromoneys print contracts are outsourced to companies carbon footprint.
The company, as part of the own charitable budget, individual employee who have environment management systems wider DMGT group, committed to reducing its fundraising efforts and also from clients who compliant with the ISO 14001 standard.
The carbon footprint by 10% from the baseline year generously made donations in support of the paper used for the groups publications is of 2007 by the end of 2012.
The company, as companys charitable projects.
produced from pulp obtained from sustainable part of the DMGT group, achieved the targeted forests, manufactured under strict, monitored 10% reduction two years early.
This year the We continue to encourage employees to be and accountable environmental standards.
footprint fell by 1% compared to last year, involved actively in supporting charities by after adjusting for acquisitions and disposals fundraising themselves e. g. running a marathon The group is not a heavy user of energy: and updating emission factors, and by 19% or triathlon, while the group contributed by way however, it does manage its energy requirements compared to the 2007 baseline.
This year the of donations to a series of employee-chosen sensibly using low-energy ofce equipment company, as part of the wider DMGT group, has charitable causes.
In the past year funding where possible and using a common sense set a new stretching target to reduce its carbon was expanded to two new charitable projects: approach to ofce energy management.
For footprint by a further 10% from the 2012 base Anchor House, a homeless charity in the East instance, the UK group uses new secure multiby the end of 2016.
End of London, and a blindness treatment functional device technology which enables two project in South Omo, Ethiopia.
sided printing and allows employees to delete unwanted documents at the printer before printing.
This initiative should reduce paper, ink and electricity usage.
36 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com We continue to work and partner with recognised charitable organisations that have expertise within certain sectors, thus ensuring that the implementation and management of a charitable project is carried out efficiently and that donated funds reach the communities at which the charitable cause is aimed.
At the same time, we are careful to address the sustainability aspects in each charitable project to ensure a long lasting beneficial impact.
Below is a summary of some of the charitable activities undertaken in the past year.
Water and Sanitation, Kechene, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Euromoney continued to support the African and Medical Research Foundation AMREF for a second year with its sustainable water and sanitation project in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Through staff activities and events such as awards dinners, the group exceeded its donation target of 212,000.
The project is focused on Kechene, the largest slum in Addis Ababa.
So far, the programme has involved rebuilding two water springs, the construction of five shower blocks and seven sanitation kiosks, with two more showers and five more kiosks to follow.
Nineteen local water and sanitation committees are also in place to manage these facilities.
Alongside this work, the project has trained twelve hygiene Kechene new water and sanitation facilities.
workers to promote information on sanitation and water-borne diseases.
In total, the full facilities and promotional work are expected to bring clean water and better health to 22,000 people.
37 Corporate and Social Responsibility Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Little Rock School, Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya This project involves the construction of new school premises for Little Rock School and is planned to be completed in January 2013.
The original Little Rock premises consisted of five separate rented buildings spread across the slum area of Kibera in Nairobi.
The new purpose-built school will have facilities for nearly 500 pupils and include 16 classrooms with up to 30 pupils each, from infant day care through to the first year of primary school.
In addition, with a new a computer room, assembly area, physiotherapy room and administration block, the educational effectiveness and operation of the school will be Little Rock new school premises perspective view.
Little Rock is much more than a school.
In addition to day teaching, it provides a feeding programme, after-schools clubs, term holiday tutoring, a public library, community engagement, parent support groups and an income generating workshop.
This holistic approach empowers children, families and the community to work together to improve the lives of some of the most vulnerable children in the world, not only while they attend Little Rock but with skills and resources they carry forward into further schooling.
The coordination of the Little Rock construction programme is carried out by AbleChildAfrica, a UK headquartered charity which specialises exclusively in advocating for and supporting Pupils of Little Rock.
disabled children and disabled young people in Africa.
38 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Water Well Project in Kimbunga Valley, Mombasa, Kenya Euromoney supports this charity project by funding the construction of a rainfed dam and the training of farmers in how to regenerate the surrounding land to make it suitable to grow crops.
This has enabled the community in the Kimbunga Valley, near Mombasa, to have food and water security and surplus crops, and provide an income something they have never had before.
This has immediately helped over 600 people within local communities.
However, experience shows that an additional 400500 people will gravitate to the area due Community members digging the dam by hand.
to the improved and sustainable livelihoods now available.
This is part of a wider initiative that Euromoney is working on in partnership with The Haller Foundation to help communities in the area lift themselves out of poverty working towards an integrated model for sustainable development that enable communities to become selfsufficient, typically over a five year period.
Anchor House, Canning Town, London E16 At the EuroWeek 25th Anniversary Awards Dinner over 175,000 was raised for the Anchor House homeless charity which aims to turn its 1960s-style building into a 21st century The dam filled with rainwater.
facility providing workshops for vocational courses: an e-learning zone: new kitchen training facility and 25 new move on studio ats for residents.
Anchor House is transforming itself into a residential life-skills centre for the homeless.
It annually supports up to 220 people each year and provides a stable and safe environment to help them develop aspirations, confidence and self-esteem, thus enabling them to move towards leading independent and selffullling lives.
39 Corporate and Social Responsibility Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Trachoma The Voluntary Other US Charity Project, South Reading Scheme Initiatives Omo, Ethiopia Partnering with the Institutional Investor At its July 2012 childrens literacy II matched donations Awards Dinner, charity Volunteer made by its employees to more than 150 Euromoney raised Reading Help, ten volunteers from Euromoney charities around the world.
In doing so it over 480,000 spend an hour a week reading to children who encouraged and rewarded the spirit of giving to fund the first are struggling with their reading at The New and generosity amongst staff.
Matching gifts two years of a North Academy in London.
were made to relief organizations, groups in five-year charity support of the arts, foundations for disease project which will start in 2013.
The project aims Bali Sports research, environmental organizations, child Foundation and to provide clean water and sanitation facilities welfare agencies, scholarship funds and a Priscilla Hall in order to help eradicate trachoma a chronic, number of umbrella charities.
II also sponsored Foundation contagious inammatory eye disease which can scholarships at nearby Baruch College and Coaltrans lead to blindness.
The project will be run jointly offered internships to deserving students.
Conferences and by AMREF and ORBIS and aims to improve the its clients gave water and sanitation facilities for 230,000 people In addition, II raised donations at their annual a donation of within the South Omo community, improve awards dinners: US$16,000 for the Little Kids US$16,183 to the Bali Sports Peace Foundation, the primary eye-care services for 644,000 Rock charity, which transforms childrens lives which provides sporting opportunities for people, treat over 550,000 people suffering by restoring and revitalizing music education underprivileged children in Bali and Papua from trachoma with antibiotics, surgically treat in disadvantaged public school: US$18,000 for New Guinea and US$14,883 to the Priscilla 13,000 adult sufferers of trachoma and train 16 the Expect Miracles Foundation, which is one Hall Memorial Foundation, which aims to help eye care workers and 600 teachers to identify of the leading advocates in the ght against underprivileged children of Indonesia.
cancer within the financial services industry: and US$25,000 for Sparks childrens medical Hope and AMREF research charity.
Homes for E-Health Children Projects Worldfund EuroWeek TelCap has Latin Finance contributed raised over supported over US$10,000 to the 36,000 for AMREFs e-health projects with a donation from Worldfund charity which the Hope and Homes for Children charity at their each of its conferences.
At the Capacity Africa supports high-quality and awards dinner.
This charity works with children, conference held in Dar es Salaam a fun run results-driven education their families, communities and governments was organised where 25 conference delegates in Latin America the across Central and Eastern Europe and Africa.
In and three of the TelCap team ran a 5km route key to transforming lives and reducing poverty.
addition, one employee raised over 4,000 by around Dar es Salaam in 30C heat.
The fun run Through Worldfunds investment in schools, participating in the Hope and Homes Triathlon.
and a charity rafe held during the event raised after-school academic programs and teacher nearly US$9,000 in funds for AMREF.
In addition principal training, they directly help 340,000 TelCap donated over 8,500 to AMREF.
impoverished students annually in the region.
Orbis Saving Sight The Legal Media Group, including International Forest Research Institute Malaysia Worldwide Financial Law Review, Managing Intellectual Petroleum Economist donated over 7,000 Euromoney Property and International Tax Review, raised to the Forest Research Institute Malaysia, a Seminars and over 6,000 for AMREF at their annual awards jungle reforestation charity, at the World Gas Airnance Journal continue to support Orbis dinners.
Conference in June 2012. which works to prevent and treat blindness.
10,000 was raised at the annual Airnance conference charity dinner in Dublin which will enable 50 eye-care workers to be trained and cover the cost of 15,000 antibiotic treatments.
