54 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility EVRAZ approach The Company takes its social responsibilities EVRAZ air emissions seriously, addressing and monitoring all The below graph illustrates the reduction in the total amount of the key air emissions aspects of corporate social responsibility nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile organic compounds rebased CSR that are relevant to the business.
This section of the report provides an overview of EVRAZ policies and performance in the 100 relevant areas of CSR including human rights, 100% health and safety, environmental performance, 90.1% human capital management and community 75 engagement in 2012 as well as an outline of 76.7% 75.2% how the Company intends to improve its 50 performance in the years ahead.
Additional relevant disclosures are contained 25 in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 28 and the Corporate 0 Governance Report on page 73.
2009 2010 2011 2012 Strategy and governance Strategic direction in the areas of health, Lost time injury frequency rate per 1 million hours worked safety and environment comes from the Fatalities Board of Directors, which has established a dedicated Health, Safety and Environment 30 3 HSE Committee to lead the Boards thinking 2.69 2.23 2.4 on health and safety issues, as well as taking responsibility for environmental, safety and 20 2 1.86 local community matters.
Details of the terms of reference and activities of the Committee are set out in the Corporate Governance 1 10 Report on page 81.
26 23 13 25 The Company is committed to improving HSE 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 performance through the implementation of enhanced business processes, as well as new Fatalities LTIFR management and control systems.
The HSE function at the corporate and site level is coordinated by the Vice President of HSE In the period from 2012 to 2017, Michael Schuble who regularly reports to the Board Committee on material HSE issues.
the Group is committed to spending At site level, each plant manager takes overall responsibility for HSE compliance, reporting to approximately US$303 million both the site management and corporate-level HSE management.
on environmental programmes The safety, health and environmental policy across its operations.
implemented at the Group-wide level aims at meeting or exceeding all applicable national legislation and increasing the level of industrial safety and labour protection as well as reducing the Groups environmental footprint across the operations.
In addition to internal codes and principles, EVRAZ implements the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises to ensure a uniform approach to business standards across the Companys global operations.
EVRAZ fully endorses the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and strives at all times to uphold them.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Key challenges r Environmental footprint the Companys r Community relations EVRAZ is a Upon review of the business, EVRAZ has operations can have a significant impact on long-term investor in its areas of operation identified the four most significant ongoing the environment.
EVRAZ is committed to and is committed to ensuring that local CSR challenges as: meeting or exceeding legal requirements in communities benefit from Companys r Health and safety the health and safety order to reduce its environmental footprint, presence.
of Companys employees are of paramount thus making the world a cleaner place.
The steel and mining industries r Human capital management retaining the have inherent risk that needs to be best talent requires investment in the managed effectively to ensure a safe development of the Companys employees working environment.
EVRAZ constantly in order to secure long-term stability of the strives to improve the performance by business and drive technological avoiding or mitigating these risks.
Targets After determining the key challenges and focus areas, EVRAZ has set the following 5 year targets for its sustainability performance.
Area of focus Challenges 5 year targets Health and Safety Impact of operations on the health and r consistent reduction in lost time injury physical condition of EVRAZ employees frequency rate r avoidance of any fatal incidents across the Group 1 1 Environment Impact of operations on the environment r 5% reduction in air emissions air, water, waste r 15% decrease in fresh water consumption 2 r 100% of non-mining waste recycled or used Human Capital Development of employees to secure the r 100% of middle management covered by long-term stability of the business development programme r creation of a pool of successors for middle and top management Community Relations Effective management of relations with r contribution to the local development of local communities, which affect the communities in which EVRAZ operates, Companys reputation and ability to operate through education, training and at existing operations employment of the local population Review of 2012 performance As a result, statistics on lost time incidents for facilities are safe and do not create risks for Health and Safety Performance 2012 are more comprehensive and accurate employees using them on a daily basis.
The In 2012, the Company adopted a number of than in previous years.
This has partially facility managers will analyse all walkways new Group-wide policies and requirements in contributed to the 20% reported increase in from the point of view of hazardous factors order to standardise and improve HSE LTIFR lost time injury frequency rate and will make sure that all hazards - including management system: calculated as number of lost working hours moving machinery, high-voltage electricity, r alcohol, drugs and smoking policy: due to injuries per 1 million hours worked steam and gas pipelines, etc.
- are effectively r work at heights requirements: seen in 2012.
EVRAZ remains committed to fenced off from the pathways employees are r personal protective equipment requirements: achieving a long-term downward trend in LTIFR.
Secondly, the Group r contractors management requirements: will focus on working at heights safety r occupational risk assessment requirement: Regrettably in 2012 the Company recorded 25 measures for employees and contractors.
r induction training on labour protection, separate fatal accidents at EVRAZ operations industrial safety, fire safety and the during the year.
The key hazardous factor 2013 Targets environment: leading to 40% of EVRAZ fatalities in 2012 In 2013 the Company aims to reduce LTIFR by r fundamental environmental requirements: was the influence of mobile equipment or 20% in comparison with 2012 and has a clear r corporate environmental reporting parts thereof.
Another 40% is composed of target to reduce fatalities in the ongoing guidelines.
rock falls in coal and ore, falling objects and journey to achieve zero fatalities and serious falling from heights taken together.
same time, the analysis of lost time injuries Developed in 2011, the EVRAZ HSE reporting Environmental performance system has led to improved incident reporting LTIs demonstrates that two categories of Steelmaking and mining sites use substantial and a full year of consistent data in 2012.
HSE LTIs fall-overs and equipment related amounts of energy and water and can affect performance data is now submitted by injuries - contribute to 42.5% of all LTIs water quality, air quality, waste and land use.
subsidiaries to the corporate HSE directorate recorded in 2012.
EVRAZs environmental strategy is to minimise on a monthly basis to ensure permanent the negative impact of its operations and use monitoring.
Information on any significant Based on thorough analysis the Company natural resources efficiently, seeking optimal incidents is immediately escalated to has identified opportunities to reduce safety solutions for industrial waste management.
management in order to enable appropriate incidents.
To tackle these key problems, investigations to take place, with further two company wide programmes are being development of preventative and corrective launched in 2013.
EVRAZ will take reasonable actions.
measures to ensure the walkways at all 1 Environmental targets are based on 2011 performance levels.
Including nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile organic compounds only.
2 The rate between amount of waste recycled or used vs. annual waste generation, not including mining waste.
It can exceed 100% due to recycling of prior periods waste.
56 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued In 2012 EVRAZ spent approximately US$35 In 2012, EVRAZ completed a number of The water pumped from mines mine million on measures to ensure environmental upgrades of existing operations and developed dewatering process is not included in the compliance including US$18 million on a new programme for reducing air emissions fresh water intake target, although pumped water management projects and more at EVRAZ ZSMK.
Another key project finalised water is in part used for technology needs.
than US$30 million on projects to improve in 2012 was the upgrade of air pollution In 2012, 46.7 million cubic metres of mine its environmental performance.
In the period control equipment at EVRAZ Claymont Steel water were pumped out in comparison with from 2013 to 2017, the Group is committed in the United States.
The site installed 44.0 million cubic metres in 2011. to spending more than US$300 million on additional equipment to capture and control air environmental programmes across its contaminants and reduce air emissions from In 2012 EVRAZ adopted a new water operations.
The project was implemented management strategy for EVRAZ ZSMK over the course of the last three years and and Yuzhkuzbassugol which is expected to In the course of 2012, the Company reviewed required investment of US$17 million.
significantly improve the water management the environmental strategy using risk performance of these operations.
assessment tools, and set the following In 2012, the Group undertook a project to five-year targets: reduce its carbon dioxide emissions within the Waste management r 5% reduction in air emissions: framework of the Joint Implementation JI Mining and steelmaking operations produce r 15% decrease in fresh water consumption: mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol.
The project significant amounts of waste including waste r 100% of non-mining waste recycled or used.
specifies reconstruction of EVRAZ NTMK rock, spent ore and tailings waste from plants blast furnaces #5 and #6 with the processing ore and concentrates.
EVRAZ Although environmental fines across the Group introduction of efficient resource saving aims to reduce the amount of waste it increased in 2012, no significant technologies for pig iron production to reduce produces, to reuse natural resources where environmental incidents were recorded.
This also resulted in CO2 possible and to dispose of waste in a manner is committed to continuing strengthening the emission reductions.
Projects which are that minimises the environmental impact environmental management system and eligible to participate in JI must comply with whilst maximising operational and financial increasing the number of operations compliant certain monitoring and measurement efficiency.
Until recently much of the waste with ISO 14001.
Now EVRAZ has 13 ISO requirements, to generate a volume of EVRAZ produced was simply stored in landfills, 14001 certified sites, including the largest Emissions Reduction Units ERUs, equivalent however the Company is developing a strategy facilities: EVRAZ NTMK, EVRAZ ZSMK, EVRAZ to the volume of emissions reductions to reduce waste storage volumes and enhance DMZ Petrovskogo, EVRAZ Highveld, EVRAZ achieved, which can be sold in the waste disposal.
Vtkovice and EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli.
EVRAZ NTMK generated 1.9 million ERUs generating revenues of In total, in 2012 EVRAZ recycled or reused 2 EVRAZ supports the human health and the US$6 million that will be re-invested into 104% of waste and by-products from its 1 environment goals of REACH Regulation, environmental improvement projects.
non-mining assets compared to 109.6% and EVRAZ entities completed the registration in 2011. procedure for all of the products which fall The main emissions issue associated within the scope of the law within the with the Companys coal mining operations EVRAZs strategy for dealing with nonregistration deadlines and gained all is hazardous mining wastes, such as depleted necessary registration numbers at the end the release of methane gas after mine rock, tailings and overburden is to use them of 2010.
In compliance with the requirements degasification.
The concentration of methane where possible for land rehabilitation and of the regulation and its amendments, all is low and therefore there is no available and the construction of dams or roads.
In 2012, necessary safety data sheets for EVRAZ economically viable technology to capture 27.8% or 27 million tonnes of such waste entities products were developed according to and utilise this gas at present.
However, material were reused compared to 46.7% the new EU format on languages of countries EVRAZ continues to investigate solutions for or 45.6 million tonnes in 2011. of supply and sent to our customers.
EVRAZ is minimising the quantity of methane emitted currently preparing for the next key stage being from the coal mining operations.
All non-recyclable waste is stored in facilities the registration of 2013 substances in close which are designed to prevent any harmful cooperation with customers, associations, Water consumption and wastewater substances contained in the waste escaping consortia and respective SEIF members.
The objective of the Company is to use Air emissions water resources efficiently and to prevent In 2012 EVRAZ ZSMK and Yuzhkuzbassugol Reduction of air emissions is one of EVRAZs any negative impacts on water quality were recognised by the administration of main environmental objectives.
Kemerovo region and Kuzbass Waste primarily comprise nitrogen oxides NOx, Processors Association for their contribution sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile organic In 2012 almost 87% of all water intakes were to environmental protection, secondary compounds.
The Company has made from surface sources, such as rivers, lakes resources disposal, and cooperation in the significant progress in reducing air emissions and reservoirs.
The total fresh water intake in establishment of the waste processing through investments in modern technologies 2012 was 422.3 million cubic metres.
This is industry in the Kuzbass region.
and withdrawal of obsolete equipment.
As a 6.5% less than in 2011 451.6 million cubic result air emissions from steelmaking metres.
operations have declined by 25% since 2009 and by 1.5% in 2012.
1907 2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council according to which as of June 1, 2007 all chemical substances, mixtures and substances in articles in some cases produced in or imported to European Economic Area EEA territory above 1 tonne per year are subject to mandatory procedures such as registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals.
If chemicals are not registered in accordance with REACH the products are not allowed to be manufactured in or imported into the EEA.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Human capital In 2012 EVRAZ focused on the following For HiPo, the Companys goal is to select and EVRAZ recognises the importance of working HR activities: prepare a set of suitable candidates for future with people and for people.
Therefore one of r Becoming an industry leader in terms of roles as Russian business leaders.
the key pillars of the Companys long-term labour conditions.
EVRAZ is focused on development plan is the development of its ensuring a high level of working conditions Additionally, in 2012, 59 EVRAZ employees human capital.
EVRAZ remains committed for all employees, regardless of their from the USA, Canada, South Africa, Czech to providing equal rights to its employees location.
Favourable and safe working Republic, Switzerland, Ukraine and Russia, regardless of their race, nationality, gender conditions are one of the most important all of whom possess diplomas of higher or sexual orientation, and the Company factors that motivate staff.
The Company engineering training and actual production recognises the importance of diversity provides health insurance, transport and experience, participated in the EVRAZ New when recruiting talented employees.
Youth outreach is one of objectives are to shape a future international Employees by region the key pillars in developing EVRAZs human management team who could potentially hold capital.
EVRAZ strives to engage the young leading positions at the Companys generation in the Companys enterprises.
enterprises, to encourage the development of The Company arranges visits to schools to general management skills and engineering present professional orientation competency, and to establish projects directed 4% 3% programmes, invites pupils to the plants, at the improvement of EVRAZs production 1% and works with young employees to offer system.
them various opportunities for professional growth.
EVRAZ has developed a number of r The preservation and development of initiatives to attract highly talented students engineering and technical expertise.
and graduates, such as paid internships, EVRAZ capitalises on its technical relocation compensation for interns and employees expertise by involving them in graduates, scholarships for students after the development of educational materials 92% successful training subject to subsequent and training courses.
Thus EVRAZ ensures employment: and corporate grants for the experts and trainees are prepared for higher professional education of young handling business issues.
and development of engineering and technical expertise [Case 2] Russia & CIS Europe EVRAZ offers young employees various r Standard educational programmes.
In Africa North America opportunities for both professional and 2012 the Company introduced integrated personal development by implementing corporate competence, adapted for all Employees by business individual plans for career development, levels of management, from operational education and training: organising professional supervisors to executive management.
contests such as: Best young employee, Training programmes were developed in Best in profession and Best young leader: accordance with the corporate model and and youth scientific and technological are now implemented across EVRAZs 4% 1% conferences.
The EVRAZs Youth organisation educational centres.
The programmes goal runs sporting and entertainment events.
is to increase management efficiency.
Graduates of the programme include: the In September 2012 Nizhny Tagil hosted the leading specialists of the businesses, 58% First Youth Forum of EVRAZ [Case 1] heads of technical areas, and subdivision heads.
In 2012 100% of leaders and 40% r Identify and develop high potential of senior masters successfully completed 37% employees HiPo.
In the second half of 2012, attention was paid to the development of the training programmes were high potential employees.
EVRAZ has two supplemented with a course on corporate closely related schemes in place, known standards of HSE, including modern tools of as HiPo development and the New Leaders safety management.
One focuses on the development of selected high potential Plans for 2013 include the continuing Vanadium Other employees in preparation for future implementation of the majority of the 2012 leadership roles in Russia, while the other programmes, as well as further enhancements develops talented employees worldwide to and implementation of new HR programmes.
Performance become future operational and technical As of 31 December 2012 EVRAZ employed leaders.
Talent management issues are Key targets for 2013 include: 100% more than 110,000 people across Europe, supervised by a special Talent Committee of employees engaged in development Africa and North America, with the majority comprising key EVRAZ executives, all of programmes, and new vacancies offered located in Russia and the Commonwealth of whom are actively involved in and personally first to internal candidates.
responsible for, tutoring and overseeing a given pool of HiPos.
58 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued Cooperation with labour unions especially those with cerebral palsy, such numerous food drives, youth sports teams, EVRAZ respects its employees rights and as no-cost treatment, purchasing special and hospitals.
aims to build a constructive and positive equipment for local hospitals, organising relationship with the labour unions which workshops for parents and doctors, providing Besides EVRAZ supports Dinamo sport club, represent them.
All EVRAZ sites operate essential equipment for day care centres, and Uralochka, a professional women volleyball through the collective bargaining agreement career development.
Besides in 2012 special team, hockey club Metallurg in Novokuznetsk model.
The Company has generally high levels projects aimed at bettering living conditions and several children sports clubs, including of unionisation at operations, although this were further rolled out in the regions where the the award-winning Federation of Sambo and can vary significantly across operations and Companys plants, facilities and offices are Judo in the city of Kachnkanar in the Urals countries.
Thus EVRAZ funded the region.
The Company also sponsored the reconstruction of a railway crossing in the Russian Geographical Society as well as Regular discussions and formal and informal north of the city of Nizhniy Tagil Ural and the Volleyball Federation of Russia.
meetings of the management and the unions funded construction of a paved road along the are conducted at all EVRAZ facilities in Russia river Aba in Novokuznetsk Siberia, as well as Transformation in South Africa and globally.
further expanded its programme of EVRAZ Highvelds transformation and social neighbourhood beautification by placing more responsibility activities support B-BBEE Internal communications courtyards in selected neighbourhoods, and Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment EVRAZ is committed to keeping its employees installing children playgrounds, benches and to create a better South Africa for all.
The informed of major corporate developments to sandboxes in some of them.
Companys transformation policy including the highest possible extent, and ensuring they the B-BBEE Act and the Broad-Based understand and are aligned with the business Social investments in Ukraine included Socio-Economic Charter for the South African strategy.
EVRAZ has a well-developed internal support for Vasilkovsky neurological hospital, Mining Industry is aligned with legislative and communications system including an Gorky Theater and instalment of a sun dial.
prescriptive measures aimed at achieving anonymous whistle-blowing system that allows accurate demographic reflection within the employees to confidentially raise questions The EVRAZ Charity Fund in the Czech Republic organisation.
about any possible issue they face.
The supports the long-term development of the whistle-blowing system uses a number of Moravian-Silesian region with funds directed The policy formalises the Companys respect tools, including internal surveys, suggestion towards medical, educational and for diversity and its contribution to advance boxes and a special anonymous hotline.
In psychological support for children suffering transformation in areas such as preferential 2012 the hotline received more than 2,200 from various disabilities of the central nervous procurement and socio-economic inquiries, which were addressed by the system, in particular those suffering from development, employment equity, skills Companys management in a timely manner.
EVRAZ also supports Vitkovice development and the development of local hockey club.
Social and community programmes EVRAZ contributes to local economies by EVRAZs social investments in South Africa The Company retained its Level 5 B-BBEE providing jobs, paying taxes and looking after aim to empower communities through scorecard with a score of 56.20, showing the communities where it operates.
The education, health, housing, community, progress towards our target of 59.48 and an Company takes its social responsibilities infrastructure and supply chain initiatives.
improvement on the score of 55.48 in 2011. seriously, addressing and monitoring all The scorecard measures three core elements aspects of corporate social responsibility EVRAZ North America launched a new of BEE: direct empowerment through CSR that are relevant to the business.
The ownership and control of enterprises and Reading Sparks childrens literacy assets, human resource development and EVRAZ supports various community initiatives programme included employee engagement employment equity, indirect empowerment in the countries and regions where present.
activities, book distributions to school children through preferential procurement and EVRAZs social expenses worldwide were in Claymont, funding for public school reading enterprise development.
US$51 million in 2012. programmes such as the Battle of the Books in Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, The main instrument in attracting skills to Most assistance is channelled through as well as donations to community centres achieve the targeted demographic mix remains charitable foundations set up by the Company in Regina and in Camrose, Alberta, Canada, the Companys benefits and remuneration and managed by local supervisory boards.
for books and reading rooms.
packages, which are regularly benchmarked EVRAZs charity funds operate in Russia against others in the mining and industrial Siberia and the Urals and the Czech Republic.
Additional non-profit organisations and sectors.
The projects in Russia are divided into three charitable causes supported by EVRAZ North categories: children, local communities and America in 2012 include the United Way, Boys sports.
Projects for children include providing & Girls Clubs, American Cancer Society, Boy assistance for children with special needs Scouts of America, YMCA Centres, and
