Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CSR case studies Case 1: Case 2: Preserving and developing engineering The First Youth Forum of EVRAZ and technical expertise at our operations EVRAZ pays great attention to the development of the potential The participants of the project are experts from the plants and of young employees.
The Company believes that young people engineering technicians of the same profession potentially are the future and youth organisations take an active part in the capable of taking the experts place.
To attract and retain young employees in The programme consists of two courses: the School of Senior each enterprise EVRAZ operates a programme, The Youth, Experts, in which top-level technical employees pass their which involves training young employees, testing their knowledge onto future experts, and the School of Progressive professional skills, and organising cultural and sporting events.
Experience, which allows the experts to share knowledge with a view to improving business processes.
About 150 young miners and metal-makers from EVRAZs Russian operations took part in the Companys First Youth The work of the School of Senior Experts is based on the following Forum.
The event took place in September 14th 2012 in Nizhny approaches: Tagil and lasted for three days.
During this time the young 1.
LEARN: Participants are trained and examined on the areas of employees of EVRAZ operations in Siberia, the Urals and the Far focus at their enterprise.
East took part in various training activities, had direct contact 2.
ACT: The participants put their new knowledge into practice as with the senior management of EVRAZ and socialized with their they work on individual projects to solve business issues with colleagues from other regions.
the help of LEAN technologies.
TEACH: The programmes are individual for every enterprise The goal of the event was to unite the young employees implementing them, and are run by the chief technical of EVRAZ and use their knowledge and energy in the professionals.
Experts are educated to work as lecturers.
Graduates of the school use their experience to prepare materials for educational books that EVRAZ is developing.
In 2012 about 145 experts and 300 potential successors took part in the programme.
The second course, the School of Progressive Experience, aims to promote the exchange of experience and sharing of knowledge within the Company.
This involves practical activities, involving experts in the process of operational improvements, allowing them to discuss and resolve engineering and technological issues, and planning progress for the year 2013.
As a result The School of Progressive Experience helps the employees to form a fresh view on everyday business processes and offer ideas to improve them.
In 2012 almost 160 employees participated in the programme.
In 2013 EVRAZ aims to expand both courses, establishing 10 Schools of Senior Experts and 4 Schools of Progressive Experience.
The scope of the course will grow as external experts from Research Institutes, client companies, and suppliers are invited to participate.
60 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 61 61 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2012 t and Accounts 2012 Financial Review
