18 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Our people, our strength Building a strong culture and effectively managing and deploying the talents of employees on a global basis are essential to the successful execution of Experians growth strategy.
Our objectives are to build a strong and sustainable talent pool so as to establish a dynamic and inspirational work environment that will attract and retain the best people.
Culture generating a sense of pride Building a strong cultural identity has become a top priority for us.
In 2011, we initiated a project called the Heart of Experian, to enable us to further identify our purpose and a way to express the ties that bind our organisation together wherever we are in the world and whatever we do.
We further set out to define three words that would express our convictions, how we behave and what we believe, in other words Mt Meet Pr Pro oje jec ct t Tig Tige er member and Business Consultant Suebie Wong, base e ed i di din Hon Hon Hong Kon n ng ng g g. our Core DNA.
Suebie takes us through the challeng lenges es a and nd highlights of how 20 peo peo people ple e fr fr fro om om fiv five d edi iff ffe er ren en nt nt n nt t t countries, speaking multiple languages In April 2012, we introduced this new way recently connected to help p h ph hig ig igh h h- - -profile Standard Chartered Bank implement a of articulating what Experian stands for in successful solution.
the eyes of our employees, our clients, our Find out more about the Heart of Experian n n and read Suebies story on Zoom.
investors, and the communities we serve.
The three words we chose to represent our Core DNA are: Connect, Protect and Create.
Connect, Protect and Create, symbolise the way we work, what we believe, and what we are about.
In communicating our Core DNA we identified stories across all parts of Experian globally to bring these to life.
To further infuse our Core DNA into everything we do, we have instigated several global projects relating to people, processes and systems.
One example is the Ambassador Programme, where employees from all levels and areas of Experian act as Connect cultural ambassadors to generate energy and excitement right at the heart of Experian.
Connect is about how our employees work together across the world to make a difference for our clients by helping them to connect successfully with their own customers.
Its also about how we combine many different items of data to drive millions of decisions each day and how we connect with the communities of which our business is a part.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 19 Not only is s Nott tinghams Paul Dennis bu bu bu us s s sy y y y Costa Mesas Senior Director of Marketing, ensuringw world cl lass standards to prote ec ec ct t t t Viviana M. Rueda, tells us how a staggering our dataa as Technica cal l Facilities Manager r at at a at nine million Americans are victims of identity Fairham House e, hes also working hard t d t d dto o theft per year.
Inspired by the flagship protect the environ nment.
Paul tells us how ProtectMyID product, Viviana and her team he met the challen nge of lowering the data are now creating the next generation of centres ene ener rgy consumption, reducing identity management tools and making a Exp perians ca arbon footprint.
positive difference in peoples lives.
Fi Find nd d out m more about the Heart of Experian Find out more about the Heart of Experian and read Pauls story on Zoom.
and read Vivianas story on Zoom.
Protect Create Protect is about the way we care for Create is about how all our employees personal and commercially sensitive ideas matter in finding new ways to help information, safeguarding the financial organisations and consumers use the interests of organisations and consumers.
power of information, and to advance It relies on trust and integrity, which are the economies in which we operate.
Its two of the words most often used by our also about creating opportunities for our employees when asked what makes employees to realise their own ambitions them proud to be part of Experian.
These posters form part of an internal campaign about the Heart of Experian, using employee stories to bring to life the three special qualities that unite our global organisation Connect, Protect and Create.
20 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Our people, our strength continued Diversity expanding our Experian Business Network EBN CEO Forum talent pool This development forum for high potential This development forum is designed for and diverse emerging talent was successfully senior talent, with a focus on creating Our employees are drawn from as diverse launched in October 2008 and now runs opportunities for exposure to the CEO a pool as possible.
Where we can obtain in all major geographies, making it a truly and other senior executives.
Members are employee diversity data, it can be shown that global forum.
To date, approximately 320 selected from the talent pool, with diversity the Experian employee base broadly reflects employees have been or are currently part being actively encouraged.
Analysis shows that of the country in which it operates.
of the EBN, with analysis showing that that, since its creation in 2008, of the 60 Approximately 45% of our employees are approximately 30% of participants have participants to date, approximately 25% have female and 55% male.
Around 32% are gained a role promotion while part of the received notable promotion.
classified as white and 20% as non-white, forum.
This promotion rate is three times A new Executive Success programme is with the remainder choosing not to that of our employee population.
Of the 320 targeted on our highest potential leaders who disclose this information or the information participants, 55% are female and 30% offer have participated in the CEO Forum events being unavailable.
ethnic or cultural diversity to the membership and have been identified as individuals we mix.
Additionally, retention rates within the The overall objective remains to drive want to further develop.
The programme EBN are over twice that seen across the diversity through the talent agenda to ensure is designed to enhance the leadership and Group, indicating that the forum is achieving that our future senior leadership team better business strategy skills that will help them its objectives in terms of both the promotion reflects our client, investor and general prepare for future roles in the most senior and retention of diverse talent.
The table below outlines the levels of management.
current picture and highlights the progress The EBN continues to demonstrate great being made.
You will find details of our strength in the promotion and retention of FTSE 100 Cross-Company Board diversity in the corporate governance diverse talent.
There are plans to extend the Mentoring Programme statement later in the annual report.
EBN concept through the development of We continue to participate in this mentoring feeder programmes.
programme, which pairs high-potential The following are some of the initiatives female executives with CEO or Chairman designed to drive sustainable change: mentors from other, non-competing, FTSE 100 companies.
Entry point hiring During 2012 a project will commence to review the level of diverse talent hired at entry point, with a particular focus on graduate hires.
This will be done with a view to developing external partnerships to aid the attraction of ethnically diverse graduate hires so as to feed the future leadership talent base.
Diversity profile of the senior leadership team September September September September External benchmark 2008 2009 2010 2011 FTSE 100 Total population 87 87 90 85 Gender number and % females 11 13% 14 16% 16 18% 16 19% 17.2% Ethnic origin number and % non White Caucasian 6 7% 4 5% 6 7% 8 9% 4.1% Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 21 Employee engagement listening Succession planning building Talent development investing to our people our base of talent in high potential employees Our global people survey is carried out every Succession planning ensures that We remain committed to checking and 18 months and provides valuable insights appropriate senior leadership resources challenging our assessments of people, in into the views of employees and their level of are in place to achieve our strategic order to ensure that we are investing in the engagement with the business.
The plans are regularly reviewed development of the right individuals.
We took by the Boards Nomination and Corporate many actions this year including expansion Experians fourth global people survey in Governance Committee.
of the global talent forums for high-potential November 2011 achieved 88% employee employees, a continued focus on career participation, the same level as the last For the broader leadership, plans are planning as part of performance review survey.
This response level is considered to reviewed twice-yearly by our executive team.
discussions and the active alignment of the be high performing and our objective is to The most recent review highlighted the global mobility and talent agendas to identify maintain such high levels.
following: individuals who will develop personally and The strongest results globally in 2011 71% of senior leadership appointments professionally from international experience.
were found in those areas that employees are internal promotions.
This ratio is in line In 2012, we further emphasised developing identified as a priority for improvement in with FTSE 100 best practice.
high potential employees with the new the previous survey particularly Teamwork, 11% of the senior leadership team are Executive Success Programme which is Communication and Respect and Integrity.
occupying developmental roles outside targeted to select highest potential leaders These were the focus of action plans at a their home market and geography.
This who have participated in the CEO Forum global and regional level.
mobility of talent continues to be a key events, as referred to above.
Overall the results showed a positive trend focus, especially across our biggest since the first survey carried out in 2007, markets.
and improved over the scores of 2010 Approximately 95% of senior leadership Experian employs approximately : with 53% of items showing significant roles have successors ready to cover these improvement 2010: 42%.
Only 14% of 17,000 people globally roles in the short-term and emergency survey items have shown significant cover, and over 60% have one or more 5,800 in North America decline against 25% in 2010. candidates identified in medium or longer 3,300 in Latin America Global and regional action plans relating term as permanent replacements.
The key 3,900 in UK and Ireland to the 2011 survey have been completed focus is on developing the strength of this and continue to demonstrate the strong talent base.
We continue to cascade the 4,000 across EMEA and commitment from executive and senior talent review process to increasingly junior Asia Pacific leadership to addressing issues raised by levels of emerging talent as one way of As at 31 March 2012 these surveys.
Plans are in place for a quarterly review of progress against the action plans, all set with consistent principles, communication processes and measurement.
Cost profile - global % of cost The fifth global people survey will run in Spring 2013.
The focus for this survey will be to continue closing the gap between Experians scores and those of global high performing organisations.
In addition, there will again be a strong focus on whether action has been taken on areas identified for improvement in the last survey, indicating how well we addressed specific Labour 54% employee feedback.
IT 8% More information on how we are progressing Data 12% on closing the employee engagement gap Marketing 12% with global high performing organisations Other 12% can be found in the key performance indicators section.
