Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 47 Corporate responsibility Experians ability to drive sustainable, profitable growth is partly dependent on its roots in responsible business behaviour and practice.
A long-term belief in doing the right thing has this year matured into a cultural identity, with a responsibility to society at its core.
Our six key responsibilities remain take account of the social context of is an important way of demonstrating how unchanged but they take on a new our business.
Measured performance we take these responsibilities seriously.
resonance as we demonstrate how on social, ethical and environmental we connect, protect and create and objectives, developed by the business, Responsibility 2012 Objectives Status How achieved Link to strategic goals Data Use and protect data Prepare and distribute training to all Computer based training related to the Code of Engaging employees in new properly, respecting employees globally related to new legislation Conduct, Anti-Bribery Corruption and Gifts and compliance responsibilities all the relevant laws, and existing requirements of the Experian Hospitality was released in October 2011 and the helping evolve industry Code of Conduct, tracking and monitoring to majority of employees in the US, UK and Ireland had guidelines and ensure complete awareness of compliance completed by January 2012.
The training was rolled new legislation and requirements.
out to another ten countries by March 2012.
Take up of ensuring a culture of the training is monitored and employees who have not Follow the same model of global distribution compliance with the completed it are followed up by their manager.
Nonand awareness training for the Anti-Bribery highest standards of completion is a disciplinary offence.
and Corruption Policy and Appropriate Use integrity.
of Data Policy Data Acquisitions Policy, The Appropriate Use of Data Policy Data Acquisitions integrating policy standards across all regions Policy is being dealt with separately and training is including EMEA Asia Pacific.
embedded in the UK and Ireland, with other regions at Strategic goal linkage: various stages of implementation.
Become global market leader in credit information and analytics Products and Services Create social and Establish an acceptable framework for The investment decision documentation includes Big ideas: Innovation with a economic benefit embedding social, ethical and environmental a stakeholder impact consideration framework.
social benefit through our products, SEE considerations into the investment Discussions through the year have concluded that the services and decision process as new products and further embedding of social considerations is not likely capabilities, balancing services are reviewed, developing criteria to be achieved by a change of wording or criteria.
commercial benefit that help the business assess and evaluate Therefore a new initiative to work with the leadership with consumers rights the social benefit of any new development, team at the global senior management conference has and needs.
looking particularly for opportunities, not only been established as the best way forward to improve mitigating risks, in terms of consumer benefit, understanding of SEE matters and follow up with value to clients reputation and contribution to regional strategic project committees is planned in the broader economic and social development.
Strategic goal linkage: Become global market leader in credit information and analytics Create successful businesses in new customer segments Consumer Inform and empower Continue to develop employee Employee communications have developed Our NA volunteer ambassadors consumers, and communications to raise awareness across particularly in North America and Brazil.
The employee speak up to help consumers ensure that those who the whole Experian population of the positive ambassador programme in North America is of interact directly with role of credit and credit reporting, helping particular note and is featured in the North America our Group receive fair employees play an active part in reaching out regional CR report.
to consumers, particularly supporting the The consumer education champions in North consumer champions in Brazil, Australia and America and UK and Ireland have been instrumental India, as their markets and bureaux develop.
in supporting consumer developments in India and Where community funding is used to support the Serasa Experian champion spent time in North financial education, work with the community America with the local team developing his expertise teams to support the use of these funds to and knowledge.
maximum effect with the broadest range of Strategic goal linkage: The North America, Latin America and UK and consumers.
Ireland regions have all linked consumer education Build large-scale operations in with community grants, with reach reported in the our major emerging consumer community section of the CR report.
economies Become the most trusted consumer brand for credit information services and identity protection Achieved Part achieved Ongoing 48 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Responsibility 2012 Objectives Status How achieved Link to strategic goals Employer Be a good employer Ensure a knowledge and understanding of The Head of Global CR was involved in the process of Social Responsibility within the to all, establishing Experians role as a responsible business the development of the Employee Value Proposition.
heart of Experian a set of expected is embedded throughout the process of An Employee Deal was the outcome of the consultation behaviours and values, the development of the Employee Value with employees on what they value.
It sets out what aiming to ensure that Proposition and that employees are given Experian offers and what employees undertake to everyone working the opportunity to comment on the relative provide in return.
Within the workplace Experian for us is treated fairly, importance of SEE factors.
pledges to contribute to the community and advance given the maximum the economies of the countries we serve in.
Use their feedback to support the further opportunity to fulfil development of relevant communications The Global Employee Deal and regional variations will their potential and that regarding Experians responsibilities and be communicated from June 2012 onwards.
all our workplaces are employees role in these.
Strategic goal linkage: Become the most trusted consumer brand for credit information services and identity protection Environment Minimise as far Achieve a 5% reduction in utility energy We have exceeded our three year energy saving target Experians regional environmental as possible the consumption normalised per US$1,000 of considerably: a 21% reduction per US$1,000 of revenue, target setting programme environmental impacts revenue over the three years 2010 - 2012 and against the original target of 5%.
This year our global associated with our ensure quarterly energy and travel data is utility energy consumption decreased by 1.3% and business and enable received from all regions.
when represented per US$1,000 of revenue, this is a 7% employee participation, reduction over the last 12 months.
with a particular Monthly energy and travel data is received from all concentration on the regions and this information will feed into regional reduction of energy reports to give a local view of environmental impact.
use and its effect on The business is now focused on managing its global warming.
travel impacts and optimising its use of virtual Strategic goal linkage: communication channels.
Build large-scale operations in our major emerging consumer economies Community Play an active part in Improve processes to capture information Working closely with regional coordinators and Connecting one HR community social and economic regarding all local charitable donations and the global finance team, we are now able to better regeneration in our develop meaningful KPIs for both regional understand and report all local charitable donations.
communities, be they and global performance in conjunction with This work has enabled a more detailed disclosure in the local, national or global.
The intention is to review the integrity of all regions data and include in reporting in the 2013 CR KPIs.
Links to Experians culture programme are being developed and will also be included in next years CR report.
Strategic goal linkage: Become the most trusted consumer brand for credit information services identity protection Achieved Part achieved Ongoing Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 49 The development of a cultural identity was Meanwhile our Serasa Experian business Making Corporate Responsibility a high priority for us in 2012 and the CR is very focused on the numbers of people our responsibility function also influenced this programme, reached, but also measures how its The term Corporate Responsibility can called Heart of Experian.
Consideration smaller scale impacts are actually making be a barrier to individuals taking their own for the communities in which were a difference.
Over the six months of their responsibility and so the focus at Experian based and serve comes through in all financial education course, they show is on: the communications and the six wider how many people begin to make provision Embedding a concern for the social responsibilities relate directly to the three for themselves and save, and how many context of what we do and bringing this to strands of our Core DNA, Connect, Protect develop the means to pay off debts on a the fore in business decisions: and Create.
Focusing our community programme by Using our skills, talents and services giving it a business link: using our talent, to benefit society skills and services to benefit society, as well as our funds: Our central funding to support regional community initiatives is primarily focused Innovating for social benefit, creating on projects addressing financial education sustainable products that have a long and encouraging entrepreneurship, and term social payback: and creates projects that have a strong link to our Consulting with our stakeholders to business focus.
This year 82% of our central ensure we are getting things right.
funds allocated to the regions were spent on such projects.
Embedding awareness of our social context Increasingly we are also looking at our community impacts: how many people do This year has seen a significant step forward we reach through our financial education in embedding a concern for the social programmes, how do we measure how context of our business.
An illustration of these projects change their lives.
Our North this has been CR function involvement in America region has become expert at large preparations for the annual global senior scale interactions, using webinars to reach management conference for leaders, which individuals, conferences to train teachers, is taking place in Mumbai, India.
In groups partnerships with consumer groups to seek of ten, all 150 delegates are taking part in an out the hard to reach.
The CR report this year experience to provide them with a taste of details some of this scale for the first time.
the social issues our Indian business faces.
They will then be challenged to see how these translate into social issues in their own regions and discuss how Experian should, or could, address them.
Partnering with Common Purpose, an NGO with a history of success in transformational business and Community investment third sector engagement, will give Experians 1 1 2012 2011 leadership an opportunity to become agents US$000s US$000s for change in their own business areas.
Funds from Experian plc 981 1,076 Financial donations from Experian subsidiaries 1,196 941 A responsibility to society also infused 2 Employee time volunteered 505 471 the development of our Employee Deal, Gifts in kind 166 250 the shorthand term for the informal Management costs 274 217 contract between employee and employer.
Experian employees provided feedback Total from Experian 2,867 3,210 that community engagement is an As % of Benchmark PBT 0.25% 0.34% important part of what motivates them.
The Head of Global CR was involved in this Employee fundraising 815 617 development work and it formed one of the six responsibility objectives.
The community data has not been re-presented to take account of discontinued operations.
Excludes time volunteered outside normal working hours on Experian projects.
50 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Experians community programme Consulting with our stakeholders encourages employees to volunteer and We know that taking account of society this year saw us introduce measures to has to become a practically achievable capture how much pro-bono work is done objective and this year, we have undertaken for charities, as well as the traditional type of a study of our relationships with our key support.
This will have an increasing focus stakeholders to help us understand whether as we identify ways in which employees can we are getting things right in their eyes.
support not for profit organisations using We have looked at clients, consumers, their skills and talents.
Volunteering overall, suppliers, employees and investors from a including time outside normal working CR perspective, interviewed a cross section hours spent on Experian projects, was of relationship owners from across the up by almost 3,500 hours, compared with business and reviewed existing policies the previous year.
Regional and central and initiatives.
We will use the findings business giving was down in 2012 but the of the research to frame our strategy for available central funds have been increased engagement on sustainability issues going for the next financial year to support the forward.
overall commitment to the community.
The full study can be read in the CR report and is a revealing picture showing how our Innovating for social benefit employees dedication to the interests of Developing products and services with a these stakeholders has already put us in a long-term benefit to society is one of the good position.
most sustainable ways in which we can have a positive impact.
This year, Experian UK and Ireland developed a Rental Exchange service that will see landlords and tenants benefit from sharing information about rental payments.
This new service will offer a safe and secure way to include a tenants rental payment history, with their permission, into their credit history.
At the core of this development was a relationship with Big Issue Invest BII, the investment arm of a major charity tackling homelessness in the UK.
In partnership with BII, Experian is developing a social housing element of the Rental Exchange to provide benefit specifically for the most vulnerable in this sector, with funds from the business permanently channelled into providing financial education support.
