Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Corporate Responsibility ADDRESSING OUR RESPONSIBILITIES Nicholas Hobson FENNER BELIEVES THAT BEING A GOOD EMPLOYER AND A POSITIVE Chief Executive Officer INFLUENCE IN OUR COMMUNITIES UNDERPINS THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS Why CR is important to Fenner applied at a divisional and operating unit level behavioural environment within the Group to Fenner understands that corporate is delegated through the Chief Executive facilitate the successful implementation of the responsibility is an important driver of longOfficer to divisional directors and on to each Groups policies.
All term, sustainable business success.
Health and safety Additionally, we believe that we have social policies and associated management systems are reviewed at least annually and at any time and environmental responsibilities to the Why it matters to Fenner when significant changes in the business, communities in which we work and that these We believe that anyone who works for Fenner responsibilities must be embedded within our legislation or industry standard demand.
Each should expect to return home in the same fit operating unit is responsible for ensuring business decision making process.
We and healthy state in which they came to work.
that, as a minimum, it meets local statutory recognise that the correct management of It is expected that everyone who works for requirements and is encouraged to reflect these responsibilities will help to contribute to Fenner, regardless of location, is responsible identified best practice within the Group.
our overall business success, bringing with it for the safety of both themselves and their an enhancement to reputation, profitability All employees are expected to take personal colleagues.
This individual and collective and shareholder return.
responsibility for their conduct and Fenner responsibility helps us to ensure that the recognises the need to create a culture and environment in which we all work is safe for How we manage CR Fenner strives to understand and manage significant risks to the environment and Corporate Responsibility and Governance communities in which it operates as well as the positive impact we can make through our activities.
The impact of Fenners activities on Audit External Board our employees, the environment and the Committee Reporting broader communities and stakeholders with Code of Conduct whom we engage is addressed within five key Chief Executive Officer areas: Health and safety: Board Our people: Policies Environment: Group Compliance Community: and Officer Group Company Secretary Business behaviours.
The risks associated with these five areas are Procedures managed within the Groups risk management Divisional Directors framework and are continuously monitored Confidential Whistleblowing and assessed, with necessary controls put in Procedure place in order to reduce any potential impact.
Local Compliance Officers The Board sets the strategy and has overall Communication responsibility for the development and monitoring of the Groups policies related to Employees Corporate Responsibility.
The task of ensuring that these policies are communicated and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 50 Corporate Responsibility continued ourselves, our colleagues and customers and appropriate improvement plans.
In line with The Group Health and Safety Policy can all those with whom we work.
the culture of delegated accountability in the be viewed at www.
com Group, the accountability for managing H&S What policies and practices are in place?
and developing local H&S management Fenner looks for and promotes health and systems resides with local management: this What are we doing?
safety H&S as a key element in the culture ensures the systems are appropriate to the The Framework requires each operating unit to of each of its operations.
The Health & Safety local culture, organisation and regulatory assess its current level of compliance with the Management System Framework The environment, whilst additionally seeking to Expectations on an annual basis, taking into Framework provides Group-wide structure meet best practice standards.
Crucial to the account the current operational risk profile and and guidance to ensure continuous development and effective implementation of applicable regulatory requirements.
The unit improvement within the unique culture and local improvement plans is an external then produces an improvement plan which autonomy of our operating units.
assurance programme which measures incorporates and builds on their existing H&S Furthermore, The Framework provides Group performance against industry-wide programmes.
The Framework is a core individuals, operating units and new component of the integration plan for all benchmarks and best practice standards.
acquisitions with a clear understanding of acquisitions.
Progress against these plans is what is required of them, whilst allowing local The response within the Group to the monitored and subject to independent management the freedom to develop their structure and clarity provided by The assessment through an assurance systems to satisfy local legislation, practice Framework has been extremely positive.
As Fenner heads to the third and social mores.
recognised that embedding The Framework update and review, the benefits of a structured into Group operations will be a long-term approach are evident in both the established The Framework was launched in January project as it necessitates a degree of cultural Fenner operating units and our recent 2009 and, together with Group policies, forms change.
The process is built on individual acquisitions.
the foundation of the Group H&S operating unit improvement plans that are management system.
The Framework Since the inception of The Framework in 2009, refreshed annually.
Each year, all operating encompasses 13 Elements to ensure a robust, it has been recognised that an essential part of units review what improvements have been all-encompassing and continually improving the management of H&S in the Group is the achieved in the previous year and revise H&S culture within the Group.
The Elements effectiveness of its associated assurance priorities based on long-term improvement are subdivided into 89 Expectations covering programme.
Soon after the roll-out of The goals and new input gleaned from sources all aspects of business from Accountability Framework, such an assurance programme including incident investigations, assurance and Leadership to Community and was developed.
This comprised visits by visits and Group industry communications.
The Framework independent, third party H&S experts who The continuous improvement approach to provides clear guidance to all our operating review documentation, engage with staff at all units to enable them to undertake a riskH&S management and the core processes levels in the operating unit and assess the local based assessment of their local H&S integral to this are illustrated in the Safety H&S culture and behaviours.
We recognise that management systems and develop Management System diagram.
the assurance programme delivers multiple benefits in the Groups diversified culture: it provides independent verification to the Safety Management System Executive Committee and the Board as to the state of local safety management systems and safety culture across the Group: it provides Local each operating unit with recommendations for improvement based upon a broad cross-Group perspective: and it acts as a conduit for sharing H&S Performance Operational best practice across the Group.
Review Planning & Execution We strongly believe that H&S is at the heart of the way we do business.
Every manager and supervisor is accountable for delivering high Operational Strategy levels of H&S performance in their area of influence.
These leaders are supported by a Core Processes network of local H&S managers within the Learning from Training and Measurement operations who are able to advise, support and past experiences competencies and assurance drive improvements in their safety Leadership Policy and Technical management systems.
All operations have an and direction procedure integrity H&S committee which meets regularly to Challenge Risk & Continuous discuss H&S topics and concerns, make management recommendations and implement and monitor Improvement any improvements or initiatives.
H&S key The Framework issues and measurements are also routinely monitored and discussed at management Group Policies meetings, with investigations into serious incidents and near misses reported to the Group Regulatory Compliance Group for dissemination across all global operations.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 51 Ownership, Communication & Promotion Balance of accountability Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Accidents and near misses are recorded and Buffalo, USA and the FAST operation in law.
Fenner does not tolerate any form of reviewed locally and safe systems of work Houston, USA all receiving commendations harassment, discrimination or bullying and is updated if necessary.
Accidents involving lost for the improvements that they have made committed to progression based on merit.
time are reported through divisional over the last year.
All of these operating units What are we doing?
management to the main Board.
The process have managed significant reductions in lost Fenner recognises the importance of for sharing details of an incident and the time injuries over the past year.
In addition, providing training and development measures around the Group to prevent similar the conveyor belt service network in Chile opportunities to enable employees to increase accidents happening elsewhere has been received a commendation for achieving a their contribution to the Group and realise formalised and extended to include near second full year without recording a lost time their full potential.
Upon joining Fenner, misses and guidance on wider health issues incident, a remarkable achievement in an employees receive training on a variety of with a business impact.
H&S regulators are area of Group operations that is recognised subjects, including H&S and Group policies increasing their level of activity, increasing internally as having the highest H&S risk.
In keeping with the delegated penalties and extending their interest across The 2012 Fenner Group Health and Safety accountability approach taken by the Group, businesses with common ownership.
The additional training requirements are Improvement Award has been awarded to the Framework and our Group-wide processes Solesis Medical Technologies operation, continually assessed at a local level and not only ensure our performance improves, Xeridiem, in Tucson, USA who achieved a further appropriate training is provided to but also address this increased regulatory reduction in lost time incidents from three in meet the development needs of both the activity.
Local management operating unit and the employee.
Employees Highlights from the year attributed this improvement to a broad take part in formal annual appraisals to A number of the Groups operating units have approach which started with fully engaging discuss performance, achievements and received external recognition and awards with The Framework and its associated potential areas for development and during the year for their performance in H&S.
Expectations to provide structure and progression.
The appraisal process ensures These included: guidance for their planned improvements.
continuing communication between This has resulted in a fundamental change in management and employees.
Multiseals, the FAST operation in employee attitudes and culture, with everyone The risks associated with inadequate Singapore was recognised with embracing their personal accountability for succession planning are recognised at Group Singapores highest H&S award: the their own and others safety.
These risks are continuously monitored bizSafe Star: change has been promoted by senior and the Group aims to identify high potential management and supported through the The FAST operation in Hampton, UK employees to receive training and application of resources, organisational secured the prestigious RoSPA Gold development in preparation for potential changes and regular recognition events.
Award for the sixth successive year, senior management.
highlighting the sites continued Our people Fenner believes that open and timely excellence in the management and communication helps to increase employee Why it matters to Fenner control of H&S.
Achieving this also awareness and understanding of our culture resulted in them attaining a second Fenner strongly believes that its employees and vision at both a local and Group level.
The RoSPA Gold medal, awarded to those are critical to the continued success of the Fenner Focus magazine is produced and organisations which have achieved five to Group.
The Groups ability to consistently distributed to all employees on a quarterly deliver reliable and superior solutions to nine consecutive Gold Awards: and basis and is an effective route to customers is founded upon a stable, The Fenner Dunlop Americas operation in communicate matters of Group and technically skilled, innovative and committed Toledo, USA received three awards from operational significance.
the Ohio Bureau of Workers' provides an opportunity to highlight and Compensation.
The awards were for the What policies and practices are in place?
recognise operating units and individuals for lowest incident rate in their industry The recruitment and retention of a skilled their work in the community, H&S initiatives sector: operating for an entire year workforce is essential to the Group.
Each and long service awards.
At a local level, without a lost time injury: and for operating unit employs recruitment practices operating units communicate regularly with decreasing their incident rate by over 25% which identify the best available candidate for their employees using a variety of methods from the previous year.
All employees are actively including staff meetings, management encouraged to apply for roles, including walkabouts, newsletters, consultative Since 2008, we have awarded the annual cross-divisional opportunities where councils, suggestion schemes, electronic Fenner Group Health and Safety Improvement applicable.
The award recognises the operating units encourage two-way communications unit which has made the most progress Fenner aims to provide a positive work and provide channels for feedback and towards achieving our goals of making safety environment for all employees, wherever they comment on the Groups activities.
The Group recognises and values the top priority in all work environments and ensuring that all those who work for Fenner diversity within the workforce and believes in Highlights from the year can expect to return home in the same fit and treating all employees with dignity and Due to the global nature of the Groups healthy state in which they came to work.
Fenner is committed to providing business and customer base, we have a There were a number of operating units that equal opportunities in recruitment and geographically and culturally diverse were in contention for this years award, with employment and does not discriminate workforce.
On average during the year, the the ECS solid woven belting operations in against any person based on gender, race, Group employed 4,970 people 2011: 4,548, of Madurai, India and Johannesburg, South age, caste, origin, religion, disability, sexual which 25% were located in Europe, 47% in the Africa, the Fenner Precision operation in orientation or any other status protected by Americas, 4% in Africa and 24% in Asia Pacific.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 52 Corporate Responsibility continued management systems.
These systems are in line with the Group Environmental Policy and Case Study The Framework which outline a set of Group Environmental Expectations.
Currently, 32% Over the year, Fenner Dunlop in Australia of the Group is either accredited or working have focused on the development of their towards accreditation under the supervisors by introducing the Supervisor internationally recognised ISO14001 scheme.
All acquisitions are subject to appropriate The programme provides an opportunity to environmental due diligence, which is further enhance leadership, HSE knowledge specifically extended to include environmental and other business skills.
The programme management systems and operational is supplemented by pre and post-course compliance.
activities to ensure the training is reinforced.
To date, five programmes have The general principle adopted by the Group is been rolled out with 64 employees one of waste minimisation in its broadest progressing through the course.
sense, whether that waste is energy, raw material or water.
Wasteful use of any resource is counter to the efficient running of any business and incurs additional cost, either from suppliers or from disposal of the waste, therefore the minimisation of manufacturing waste and the maximisation of Fenner is proud of the fact that the current energy efficiency are recognised as beneficial Environment average period of service across the operating to the Group from both an environmental and Why it matters to Fenner units of the Group stands at 7.6 years 2011: 8.3 a commercial viewpoint.
Concern for the Groups impact on the years.
environment is a fundamental part of our Waste minimisation is driven and managed at Over the year, Fenner has continued to corporate business strategy as we endeavour the operating unit level.
All major promote the welfare of its employees.
A large to contribute towards a sustainable future.
manufacturing operations monitor their waste number of operating units offer free health emissions and all operating units comply with The Group is committed to identifying and screenings and vaccinations to their local environment legislation.
General waste assessing the risks of pollution and other forms employees.
Several operating units also management programmes and initiatives are of environmental impact arising out of its encourage their employees to lead healthier encouraged and the recycling of materials activities and actively seeks to reduce its impact lifestyles through the use of wellness takes place where practical, either internally on the environment to the lowest practical level programmes: these programmes range from or through external programmes with by ensuring that, within the constraints of the the provision of educational healthcare suppliers or other third parties.
An example of local infrastructure, all operations and activities information, to encouraging gym membership this is the Goal Zero programme running at of the Group exemplify current best practice in and offering on-site exercise sessions to our Fenner Drives facility in Manheim, USA.
During the year, Fenner Dunlop Europes UK site supplemented its wellness What policies and practices are in place?
The Group Environmental Policy can be programme by offering its employees a 50% At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has viewed at www.
com subsidy for membership to a local sports specific responsibility for the development of centre.
Xeridiem in Tucson, USA staged a policy and management systems.
Responsibility health and wellness fair for its employees What are we doing?
for each operating unit is delegated to the and, as part of its programme, rewards were The Group recognises the increase in public senior managing director and, at a local level, to offered to employees who participated in awareness of the climate change debate and a senior manager at each site supported by inweight loss and smoking cessation courses.
the need for companies to understand the house or third party professionals.
Each scale of their greenhouse gas emissions.
It senior managing director reports to the Board also recognises that there is no globally on a regular basis and advises the Board accepted methodology for calculating immediately of any environmental risks or other Employees by location emissions, with most countries having a incidents likely to be significant to the operation.
portfolio of emission factors for various energy No new environmental risks or incidents were sources based on either the average reported to the Board in the last year.
24% composition of primary fuels or averaged We believe that, due to the large variation in emission factors for secondary energy sources environmental regulation and approach such as electricity purchased from a national 4% across different countries, our best response grid.
Whilst these averages are inherently 47% to deliver environmental management is to inaccurate, they are the generally accepted ensure that each operational location is fully methodology for estimating the end users 25% aware of and supported with respect to its greenhouse gas emissions for year-on-year local, national and international regulatory reporting.
To this end, the Group has elected obligations.
Taking this locally focused to report global figures based on emission Americas Asia Pacific approach, operating units have established a factors prescribed within the internationally Africa Europe accepted greenhouse gas protocol.
number of different local environmental Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 53 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Government regarding mandatory emissions reporting.
The Group does not set global Case Study targets for greenhouse gas emissions but many operating units set local targets and all operations comply with local legislative For several years, Fenner Drives in Manheim, requirements.
Due to the diversity of the USA has been committed to reducing their environmental impacts in all aspects of their Groups manufacturing processes, operating unit size and location, it will be challenging to manufacturing.
They have a no-landfill approach to waste management and during produce meaningful, consistent and 2012, generated 560 t of manufacturing predictable intensity measures of greenhouse waste, of which over half was recycled and gas emissions.
the residual sent to a local incinerator where The Group uses a variety of energy sources.
it was used to generate electricity.
Fenner The main contributors to greenhouse gas Drives also encourages its employees to emissions are purchased electricity and bring recyclable waste from home such as natural gas which, combined, account for 86% batteries, fluorescent lamps, printer of the Groups emissions.
cartridges and old mobile phones for recycling via this system.
The preliminary results from the new energy reporting system indicate that a small reduction in energy intensity was achieved in the year under review.
All of our operating units manage their energy efficiency as part In the UK, Fenner registered in 2010 under minimising any emissions to the air of VOCs, of their normal operating cost control.
the Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme potential substitutes are assessed as soon as Examples include: the purchase of new CRC, a key component of the Climate they become commercially available.
equipment with consideration of lifetime Change Act which was subsequently turned energy costs: studies underway to replace The majority of the Groups operating units into a carbon tax.
We remain a member of a older boilers with more efficient modern have occupied their sites for many years, Climate Change Agreement CCA, hosted boilers: and widespread utilisation of energy some for over 100 years: the Group therefore by the British Plastics Federation, which efficient lighting.
recognises and manages the risk of exposure commits us to reducing our relative energy to environmental legacy issues.
consumption by 10% over six years.
Community Participation in the CCA requires us to identify Fenner undertakes regular reviews of its Why it matters to Fenner the energy saving potential for each location activities and the workings of the Fenner believes that good relations and longand draw up a plan for implementation which environmental policy to ensure it is term partnerships with the communities in provides cost reductions and an effective comprehensive and effective, identifying which it works are fundamental to its success.
derogation from the complexities of the CRC.
objectives and standards that will enable a Fenner always considers the potential social It should be noted that only 13% of our energy demonstrable continuous improvement in and environmental impacts that its business consumption is in the UK.
activities may have on those communities and Air quality could be adversely affected by such considerations are embedded within the Highlights from the year some of our processes and we have Groups decision making processes.
During 2012, we have undertaken a UK pilot implemented systems to ensure this does not project demonstrating an energy and What policies and practices are in place?
A number of locations use processes emissions reporting system, with the intention The Groups support for the communities it which involve a range of chemicals, of a global roll-out to all our operations by the operates in is driven at a local, rather than generically referred to as volatile organic end of the calendar year 2012.
This will enable corporate level.
The approach, adopted across compounds VOCs.
These chemicals are a more robust and efficient reporting of future the globe, is to support and enhance employee subject to strict regulation: their storage and greenhouse gas emissions, consistent with efforts in their communities through the use is strictly controlled.
In addition to the recent announcement from the UK application of the Groups resources.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Groups Code of Business Conduct prohibits any political donations and therefore no political donations were made during the 26% year.
Fenner has respect for human rights and 3% supports the Universal Declaration of Human 3% Rights.
1% 60% Over the year, the majority of operating units chose to provide help to local causes.
The 3% 3% three main areas of focus for donations and charitable activities were education, community and health.
During the year, total Electricity Natural Gas Petrol Diesel Fuel Oil Other Coal Water LPG charitable donations of 102,000 were made 2011: 151,000.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 54 Corporate Responsibility continued Whistleblowing Policy: Case Study Email & Internet Use Policy: and Group Control Manual.
During 2012, the James Dawson In support of the Code of Business Conduct, a operation in Lincoln, UK were whistleblowing helpline is available to all announced as the winner of the employees who wish to raise any concerns inaugural British Plastics they may have regarding potentially unethical Federation Energy Award.
Calls to the helpline are national award was in recognition free and the helpline operates 24 hours a day, of their outstanding improvement 7 days a week.
in energy efficiency, ranging from the consolidation of operations at What are we doing?
two locations into one to simple The vast majority of operating units have, or activities like ensuring computer are working towards, ISO 9001 or equivalent monitors are turned off when not status and each undertakes rigorous in use.
customer satisfaction assessments, including senior face to face meetings and customer surveys.
Performance and the timing and handling of any complaints are routinely discussed at management meetings and are used as a key measurement in determining Highlights from the year Business behaviours the success of the operating unit.
Employees and operating units have given Why it matters to Fenner their time and helped raise funds for a variety Fenner expects that all business partners will Fenner believes fundamentally in the principle of charities and projects over the past year.
adhere to the high levels of business conduct that a well run organisation is one whose Some examples include: that we demand of ourself.
It is a standard officers and employees operate with high requirement of our terms and conditions of standards of integrity, behave in an ethical Fenner Drives in Manheim, USA made business that both suppliers and customers manner and demonstrate responsible contributions to the local community to comply with all laws relating to anticorporate behaviour.
The Group recognises assist with flood clean up and recovery: corruption as well as our related policies.
In that both its corporate conduct and addition, we expect strategic partners and Fenner Dunlop Europe in Hull, UK relationship building are key elements in continued to support Hull Compact, a service customers to have H&S management ensuring the success of its business strategy.
systems that are aligned with those of the charitable organisation that helps We believe that a high standard of business Group.
children develop their academic potential conduct can help encourage the formation of by providing a university bursary to a Hullsuccessful partnerships with third parties Highlights from the year based student on a financial needs basis.
throughout the Groups supply chain, thereby Training has been provided to appropriate It also offers work experience placements creating additional business value.
employees at an operational level for both for pupils at local schools: anti-bribery and competition through What policies and practices are in place?
seminars, meetings and poster campaigns.
James Dawson in Lincoln, UK provided The Board has ultimate responsibility for the During the year, Fenner has trialled a number money towards kits for a local football development and monitoring of the Groups of third party e-learning training programmes team that is run by a couple of its policies relating to corporate behaviour and and has now selected a preferred provider to employees: for ensuring that those policies are assist us in implementing a Group-wide understood and communicated to employees.
Employees of Xeridiem in Tucson, USA mandatory training programme.
The Responsibility for ethical and behavioural hosted a donation drive for Casa fide los programme will include modules on the Code standards in each division is delegated via the Ninos which is a local non-profit of Business Conduct, bribery and corruption, divisional managing director to the senior organisation designed to help prevent with a focus on the UK Bribery Act and antimanager at each operating unit.
child abuse and care for children who competitive behaviour.
Fenner has identified have already been abused or neglected.
The Groups culture is one of openness, those employees who have a higher risk of Employees decided to provide healthcare integrity and accountability.
These principles exposure to bribery or other corrupt items due to the abundance of toy are enshrined within the Code of Business practices: all such employees will be required donations that the organisation receives: Conduct.
The Code sets out the behavioural to undergo appropriate training.
An online standards expected from all employees: certification process will allow employees to Prodesco in Perkasie, USA permitted fairness, honesty and integrity.
The Code is an confirm that they have completed the required employees to take eight hours off work to overarching policy which is supported by training.
volunteer for an organisation of their additional policies and procedures at both a choice: and The whistleblowing helpline received seven Group and operational level, including: calls over the year from employees who The FAST operation in Hampton, UK has Anti-trust Competition Policy: wished to raise concerns regarding unethical recently supported a local youth club with workplace behaviour.
All calls were equipment and funding.
Anti-bribery & Corruption Policy: thoroughly investigated and addressed.
Of the Corporate Gifts & Hospitality Policy: seven calls, two were deemed to be Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 55 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Fenners Corporate Responsibility approach Governance H&S management H&S culture Health and safety H&S assurance programme Training & Development Employee welfare Our people Leadership development Employee communications Environment management Climate change Environment Waste management Energy efficiency Community engagement Employee community involvement Community Community related donations Business behaviours Policies and procedures Business partner relationship management Code of Business Conduct Data & performance managment Whistleblowing procedure Audit & assurance Management systems Reporting and communication Employee training appropriate whistleblowing incidents whereas the others related to work place grievances and, as such, were dealt with using existing procedures at a local level.
All whistleblowing incidents are reported to the Audit Committee.
During 2012, the Groups Gifts & Hospitality Policy was updated and communicated to all operations to ensure that employees had clarity on the provision and acceptance of gifts and hospitality.
In addition, an online gifts and hospitality register was implemented, which is available for use by all operating units.
Nicholas Hobson Chief Executive Officer Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 56 Operational impact areas
