Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility Chairmans Statement Ferrexpos Board is fully committed to the 2012 Highlights Groups corporate social responsibility CSR initiatives, which aim to achieve a Safety high international standard of performance.
There were no work related fatalities during 2012, and the lost time frequency rate continued to improve, reaching its lowest The Board focuses its attention on three point in the Companys history.
This reflects constant efforts keyareas: to increase safety standards and reduce injuries.
No incidents requiring evacuation of staff or members of the Safety: with the assistance of external local community.
consultants, Ferrexpo is embedding an improved safety culture throughout the organisation.
This is reflected in the steady fall Environment in the accident rate and in the accompanying Total emissions levels NO, SO, CO, and dust declined 2 2 2 distress and disruption.
versus 2011, and were within regulated limits.
Further regulatory permits were obtained for exploration, Environment: continuous efforts are made to production, and processing activities.
manage and reduce dust, gas and effluent emissions, by introducing new equipment and Community Initiatives see also panel on page 47 procedures.
Ferrexpo is keenly aware of its Project management and monetary support for Regional and duty to manage its resources carefully and District Planning Councils.
with the proper regard for the natural and Continuing sponsorship of the Ukrainian Premier League social environment.
football club FC Vorskla which has a large following among the staff and local community, and also the local club FC Gornyak.
Community: Ferrexpo benefits enormously Supply of new equipment for local schools.
from having a thriving, well-educated and Construction of new apartment units.
well-motivated local community which aids Supply of medical equipment to local and regional hospitals.
the recruitment and retention of staff.
To this More than 500 employees added to FYM in preparation for end it pursues a wide range of initiatives, 2013 commercial production.
from dealing sensitively with its immediate Successful resettlement of eight households from the Yemtsy neighbours, to sponsorship of the football village, in order to support the FYM business.
teams that enjoy overwhelming support Medical sponsorship for pensioners and others who are not among employees and the local community.
able to acquire all necessary medicines and supplies.
In all of this the Board aims to foster high standards of behaviour among employees, reinforced by appropriate codes of conduct.
2013 Challenges Michael Abrahams Chairman Environment Maintain the trend towards lower emissions per tonne of pellets produced, while continuing to develop the site and increase production.
Minimising dust levels from the expansion of the FYM open pit and associated infrastructure.
Skills Availability Ferrexpo is examining many business and community processes including peer group compensation analysis, accommodation housing, and sports entertainment facilities, in order to attract and retain the skills required to support the modernisation and growth of the site.
38 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements CSR Strategy Set out below are the short-, mediumand long-term CSR goals for the Group.
Short-term 2012-2014 Medium-term 2012-2016 Long-term 2012-2021 Health and Reduce eliminate recurring Implement effective systems Implement hazardous operations Safety injuries through improvement in to ensure compliance with analysis and risk assessment safe workplace behaviour company safety standards processes to drive best practice Employees Increase availability of improved Increase employee Integrate recruitment and living accommodation development programmes retention systems Environment Keep controlled emissions dust, gas Adapt production techniques Increase productive output and effluent below permitted limits so as to minimise use of inputs while reducing the impact on and reduce further where possible and minimise waste the environment through new processes and technology Improve workplace conditions through the implementation of modern equipment and processes Community Contribute to the development Align the growth of operations with Work jointly with local communities of the education and skills of the land acquisition and city planning to create new infrastructure, social local population, and support processes for rural and urban living programmes, and leisure activities the modernisation of local community infrastructure and services, in order to develop and maintain the local labour pool Conduct successful negotiations with local communities in order to facilitate land acquisition for mining infrastructure About this Report The content of this report has been investment analysts.
Other users may The Board and its CSR Committee described defined byconsideration of: include local and national government, below are committed to continuing the drive Company principles and policies employees, communities affected by to improve health and safety, environmental Consideration of the Companys strategy the Companys operations, contractors, and social performance and reporting.
As part and how this may be affected by suppliers, customers and themedia.
of this programme the decision was taken sustainable development risks facing in 2011 to adopt a more coherent structure theCompany External Assurance for reporting which can be built on as the Feedback from and interests of This report has been self-reviewed, which is Companys monitoring procedures grow.
stakeholdergroups considered to be appropriate at this stage Key CSR topics identified by senior in the development of our CSR reporting.
This report covers the reporting period management engaged with the 1January 31 December 2012, and reporting CSRprocess Organisational Profile is on an annual basis.
However, if there are Review against peer group companies Information on the Group and its activities any significant CSR issues or developments Legislation and regulation that affects may be found in the Business Review on during the year, these are reported in the theCompany.
pages 10 to 37 and employee numbers half-yearly report.
The last annual CSR review are detailed in note 35 to the Financial was in the Companys 2011 Annual Report.
The topics covered are those that have been Statements.
For information on the scale of assessed to be most material to the Company, organisation revenues, assets, capitalisation, Report Content including those highlighted in the Risks and etc : please see notes 6, 18 to 21, and 28 The scope of this report covers all areas Opportunities section on pages 41 to 42.
We to the Financial Statements.
ofFerrexpos activities and those of its will take account of stakeholders views in operating subsidiaries.
order to refine and build on our CSR reporting.
Governance The general governance structure of Report Audience the Group is explained in the Corporate The report is aimed principally at existing Governance Report on page 50. and prospective shareholders and 39 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued CSR Governance Structure CSR at First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH The Corporate Safety and Social Commitment to CSR is demonstrated through: formerly Helogistics Holding GmbH Responsibility Committee Group policies See section on First-DDSG Logistics on The Group has a Corporate Safety and Board and management focus page47.
Social Responsibility Committee the CSR Asset level management systems Committee which is a sub-committee of Performance management at all levels All Employees the main Board and includes two Board All Group employees are expected to take members and two senior executives.
It The Board considers that Ferrexpo has personal responsibility for their conduct, monitors the implementation of CSR policies.
continued to make good progress in 2012. and management recognises the need The Groups values see the Chairmans to create a cultural and behavioural The CSR Committee is chaired by Brian Statement at the beginning of this CSR environment among the Groups workforce Maynard Group Chief Operating Officer.
The review are reflected in a Group-wide Code of that will allow the policies agreed by the other members of the CSR Committee are Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics.
Board to be successfully implemented.
Michael Abrahams Chairman of the Board, Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Executive Officer The CSR Framework Adherence to External Charters and Viktor Lotous FPM Chief Operating Management recognises that reaching the Safety Officer.
To assist them in the exercise of their highest standards will entail a continuous Management continues to take into account duties, the CSR Committee will, from time to process of evaluation and improvement best practice both in Ukraine and abroad.
time, engage specialist technical advisers.
founded on a sound CSR framework.
In2012, there was further action on the Ferrexpo has adopted a seven point CSR recommendations of the DuPont audit of2011.
During the year the matters considered framework covering values, strategy, by theCSR Committee and the policies, objectives, targets, monitoring In 2006, FPM initiated the development of Board included the following: and auditing, and communication.
a health and safety management system Monitoring the review of targets and consistent with the requirements of OHSAS metrics to be set in relation to the CSR CSR at FPM 18001, the internationally recognised Performance Indicators: this work will As it is still by far the largest asset within standard for health and safety management.
continue in 2013. the Group, FPM provides the main focus This system was externally audited under Reviewing the work being done to for development and implementation of the Ukrainian UkrSEPRO system in March implement the greenhouse gas emissions the Groups CSR procedures, based on 2007 and accreditation was obtained in reporting regulations in the UK.
The accreditation is renewed Overall review of safety in mining and single department is responsible for health every five years, most recently in January processing operations, including analysis of protection, industrial safety, air and water 2013, and audits are carried out annually.
industrial injuries and sickness, workplace testing laboratories, the medical centre, fire conditions, and labour safety audits.
prevention service, gas service, civil defence Environment A review of CSR related risks.
and emergency response headquarters FPM and FYM are currently in compliance with and workshops.
This department reports all applicable standards under environmental Business Conduct directly to the FPM Chief Operating Officer.
laws in Ukraine, which set requirements for A concern for high standards of business the protection of the natural environment, the conduct informs the Groups approach to its CSR at FYM use of natural resources, emissions into the activities.
Awareness of the Group Policy on The FYM open pit was commissioned in 2012 atmosphere and water and waste disposal.
Bribery and Corruption was reinforced with and will begin commercial production in 2013.
FPM holds a number of environmental licences all managers and commercial employees A department has been created to deal with and permits, including permits for atmospheric during the year with training provided when health, safety, and environment matters.
emission control, solid waste disposal, tailings required, in order to ensure best practice disposal, mine waste disposal and industrial and compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
In 2006, the Environmental It is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Department started to develop a full Officer to monitor the Groups anti-bribery Environmental Management System EMS policies and report to the Committee of in accordance with ISO 14001.
The EMS was Independent Directors on their effectiveness.
1,091 externally audited by the Ukrainian UkrSEPRO The Committee of Independent Directors authority and given a certificate of conformity number of staff at FYM oversees the operation of business ethics and with ISO 14001 in the second quarter of anti-bribery policies and makes any necessary 2007.
The system was last audited in May The number of staff at FYM grew steadily recommendations for improvement.
2011, and the accreditation was confirmed during 2012, to 1,091.
CSR matters form by external auditors.
At FYM, which is at an anincreasing part of FYMs regular earlier stage of development, preparations reportingprocedures.
have been made for ISO 14001 certification.
40 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Stakeholder Engagement Employees and Trade Unions Local Training Institutions Stakeholders Successful communication with employees Ferrexpo works towards establishing a closer Stakeholders are those groups or is crucial in helping Ferrexpo to achieve relationship with the local training institutions, individuals who are significantly affected its objectives.
Communication starts at with a view to developing accelerated training by Ferrexpos activities or those whose a personal level when employees begin programmes that improve the flow and actions may affect the ability of the Group their employment through an induction quality of new recruits to its operations.
to implement its strategies and objectives.
programme, and continues throughout their time with Ferrexpo.
It takes a variety of forms Government National and Local The stakeholder groups that the Group according to the circumstances from faceEngagement with local and national engages with are described below.
to-face discussion to formal group training government is open and proactive.
programmes, from job-specific training to Communication often revolves around project Shareholders and the Investment Community programmes for ensuring compliance with implementation and land acquisition, as Directors and senior executives have frequent legal or regulatory requirements such as well as routine submission of information as discussions with institutional investors and that undertaken in 2011 in implementing required by the authorities.
Recent activities major shareholders on a range of issues anti-bribery procedures across the Group.
included sponsored development of future including performance, strategy and Communication is of course two-way, town planning in the Kremenchuk district.
The Head of Investor Relations and employees are encouraged to give manages programmes and communications, feedback either through their managers Risks and Opportunities particularly at the time of the full and half-year or occasional employee surveys.
The main CSR-related business risks are: results announcements when presentations Mining risks and hazards are given to analysts, brokers and major Local Communities Licences shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting Ferrexpo has a positive impact on local Governmental approvals for expansionis an important event in the calendar, giving communities through being a major employer.
related projects all shareholders the opportunity to engage As a mining company, it also recognises the Relocation of communities directly with Directors and management.
sensitivities that surround the occasional necessary displacement of small communities Mining Risks and Hazards Customers and Suppliers by its operations, and those operations impact The Groups mining operations are subject Ferrexpo has had successful business on the physical landscape.
It works hard to to risks and hazards including industrial relationships with several of its customers for maintain dialogue with local communities, accidents, equipment failure, unusual over 20 years.
Marketing plays an important and has a dedicated department through or unexpected geological conditions, role in developing new relationships in order which communications are channelled.
environmental hazards, extreme weather to diversify the customer base in anticipation conditions especially in winter and other of the planned increase in production.
Many of these risks are outside managements control.
Shareholders and Investment Training How Ferrexpo Engages Community Written communication and email with its Stakeholders Annual Report and Accounts Surveys Website Special programmes e. g. antiAnalyst and investor meetings bribery procedure training and conferences Annual General Meeting Local Communities Written communication and email Sponsorship finance and know-how Presentations Funding of community projects Site visits Local TV Local press articles and interviews Customers and Suppliers Site visits Written communication and email Face to face Government National and Local Annual Report and Accounts Written communication and email Networking at conferences Face to face Site visits Employees and Trade Unions Audits and inspections Face to face regular meetings Annual Report and Accounts with employees and unions Information boards around the site 41 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued Mitigation: The Group is dedicated to a Government Approvals of Expansion Ferrexpos Approach zero-harm objective, and the mitigation of The process of obtaining governmental mining risk is one of its primary operational approvals is time-consuming.
The Yeristovo Health and Safety goals.
All safety initiatives and processes mine is being developed according to plan, are regularly reviewed by management and and the extension of the current mining adjusted to changing circumstances, with licence was approved.
The Group does the support of third-party service providers not yet hold all governmental approvals Policy i. e. DuPont as required.
Appropriate safety required to conduct all of its future expansion The prevention of injuries to employees training and refresher training is given to all projects that are under study, although is the highest priority of the Board relevant employees, and their remuneration none of the approvals applied for to date and management.
Policies and is partly linked to safety performance.
The has been refused by the authorities.
practices at all levels reflect this.
modernisation of plant and equipment has The risk is kept under careful review.
Within the operating assets, also allowed safer working practices and accountability for health and improved environmental performance.
Mitigation: The Group continues to maintain safety performance lies with Accidents are fully investigated and an open and proactive relationship with senior line management.
various governmental authorities and is All operating assets are required However, given the nature of mining aware of the importance of compliance with to develop and implement health operations there can be no guarantee that local legislation and standards.
The Group and safety management systems accidents and fatalities will not occur.
maintains strict compliance with the National in line with Group policy, including Resources Code of Ukraine and execution performance management.
There were no fatalities in 2012, and of work in accordance with the project Performance metrics will reflect the accident rate for the year has design, through the active engagement of the Groups commitment to strive fallen compared with 2011.
Ukrainian and international legal advisers.
to achieve the highest standards of health and safety performance.
Throughout the Groups 40-year history Relocation of Communities this is a subsidiary Senior line management is responsible of operation it has not experienced risk, and for that reason is not included in the for ensuring that adequate resources any significant shutdowns.
Principal Risks on pages 20 to 23 are committed to health and safety.
Certain small rural settlements will have to be They have an obligation to secure Licences relocated in order to allow us to proceed with their resources through the Groups All licences for FPMs and FYMs operations some of our mine expansion projects.
Potential planning and budgeting processes.
have been renewed upon expiry.
The risk of solutions have been explored, and progress Adequate health and safety licences being revoked is low, but requires has been made during the recent months.
training will be given to all timely and close monitoring in order to prepare employees and contractors.
for all externally controlled situations.
Mitigation: The resolution of the issue is Specific focus needs to be applied supported by strong activity at the local level to behavioural safety at all levels, Mitigation: The Group continues to monitor including timely meetings and dialogue with to fatal risk prevention and to the and review its commitments under its community representatives, in order to reach major industrial health hazards various licences in order to ensure that the consensus on the benefits of relocation in associated with our operations.
conditions contained within the licences terms of improved accommodation and utilities Employees are personally are fulfilled or the appropriate waivers and better access to transport infrastructure responsible for their own safety obtained.
There is careful assessment of the and social services.
Communities are paid a and that of their colleagues.
situation regarding transfers of licences.
fair price for their land and compensation for disruption.
As it is included in the approved funding of the Capital Project, the topic is Goals under constant review, including weekly Ferrexpos goal is to develop a culture in meetings at site, and when necessary at which safe production is recognised as monthly Executive Committee meetings.
cost-effective, and which leads to improved workplace conditions and behaviour.
The See also Community Initiatives under objective originally set in 2009 of achieving Highlights on page 38. the best mining safety record in Ukraine is supported by targets including a reduction of 5% in the lost-time injury frequency rate.
42 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements 4,655 employees trained in safety at FPM training centre 2012 For 2012 management set itself the task In line with policy, all accidents are Organisational Responsibility of further reinforcing the safety culture at investigated to determine the cause and In accordance with the legal requirements Ferrexpo, through an increase in safety identify appropriate remedial action.
of the jurisdictions within which Ferrexpo spending as a proportion of sales revenue, This analysis, which also covers minor operates, it has developed health and safety through the development of the safety training accidents not involving time spent off work policies appropriate to its operations and types programme, and through a continuing link microtraumas is carried out according of activity.
Compliance with these policies between safety performance and staff to a methodology created with DuPont.
is monitored via a three-tiered system: daily remuneration safety KPIs now apply to all Fatalities and other serious accidents control is conducted by operating personnel, staff down to middle management level.
are additionally investigated by the State engineers and technicians: production authority.
The Board, the CSR Committee managers carry out weekly inspections: senior Performance and the Executive Committee require senior management conducts periodic inspections Monitoring the effectiveness of health management to provide full reports on the in conjunction with government personnel.
and safety policies includes the review causes of fatal and serious accidents, details of health and safety performance, as of corrective actions to prevent these types There is a centralised Directorate for Industrial measured by key KPIs as shown below: of accident from recurring, and plans for Labour Safety and Environmental Protection 2012 2011 2010 enhancing overall safety management based taking the place of the previous more localised Lost Time Injury on the lessons learnt.
Senior managers structure: in this Directorate the remuneration Frequency Rate are expected to present these reports, in of safety engineers is no longer directly linked LTIFR see note 0.66 0.77 1.46 person, at the first Executive Committee to operational output thereby contributing meeting after the accident concerned.
to the maintenance of health and safety Fatal accidents 0 0 1 standards.
Procedural manuals on labour Total accidents 10 11 20 In accordance with Ukrainian compulsory safety and environmental protection at the Lost days 338 469 916 social insurance laws, compensation operational level continue to be implemented.
Notes equivalent to up to five times annual salary LTIFR Number of work-related lost time injuries per million man is payable to the victims of accidents Training hours not including contractors.
or their families in the case of fatalities.
Staff are trained in Health and Safety matters Workers contribute to a statutory insurance as part of their general technical training.
The prevention of injuries to employees is the fund which is responsible for paying the In 2012, safety training at the FPM Training highest priority of the Board and management, compensation.
FPM is aware that it has Centre was provided to 4,655 employees who follow the principle that all accidents are a moral as well as a legal responsibility at all levels of the Group see Training and avoidable.
There were no work-related fatalities towards the families of employees affected Development under Employees on page 44. within the Group during 2012, and the accident by accidents at work and will also make rate in Ferrexpos operations hasfallen.
additional voluntary payments to the family of employees on a case-by-case basis to ensure that they do not suffer hardship.
43 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued 6,937 employees benefited from various forms of in-house and external training Performance investment has been made in facilities for Employees In 2012, 66 staff were able to join the employee health and safety training.
Training takes housing programme, which enables selected the form of basic and specialised training, employees to take out loans for the purchase retraining and refresher training courses, of accommodation in Komsomolsk, at a highly both internal and external.
In 2012, 107 Policy subsidised rate of interest and without the employees were sponsored by Ferrexpo Ferrexpos employment principles include normal requirement in Ukraine of a substantial at institutes of higher education.
Total policies and practices on company down payment.
This plays an important part in educational spending for employees in higher standards, security, recruitment, Ferrexpos strategy for retaining key employees.
educational establishments was UAH631 remuneration, equal opportunities and thousand US$79 thousand.
In 2012, a total training and development.
These are Further information on employee numbers of 6,937 employees received various forms backed up by subsidiary company is set out in note 35 to the Accounts.
of in-house and external training, at a cost employment manuals to cover local of UAH6.5 million US$813 thousand.
Organisational Responsibility Trade Unions and Industrial Relations The Group does not have individual contracts Goals with its employees in Ukraine other than with Ferrexpo is aware of the increasing its senior managers.
Every year a Collective demand for staff with mining expertise in Labour Agreement is signed which states, inter the CIS countries and elsewhere, and is alia, that individual salaries will be increased constantly looking for ways to motivate at least in line with inflation.
Management and retain its employees by involving an believes, having conducted market research, increasing number of staff in its employee that wages paid by the Group are higher than development programmes and by providing average wages in Ukraine.
There has been competitive compensation packages.
no major industrial action or labour dispute at FPM since its privatisation in 1995.
Ferrexpo also aims to combine employees local knowledge with modern technology so Training and Development as to enhance the capacity and utilisation The Group is committed to developing its of its physical plant and equipment.
The Group provides technical training for all employees consistent with their Ferrexpo also intends to implement more duties and responsibilities.
In particular, up-to-date Human Resources systems.
44 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements UAH91M invested on implementation of environmental protection measures River Dnieper Utilise stripping materials topsoil, sand, In 2012, FPM spent UAH91 million on the Environment clay, rock to support the creation of new implementation of environmental protection plant and transport infrastructure.
measures: this increase was due mainly Eliminate workplace waste through to work on the tailings storage area.
improved management systems, and utilise Additionally, UAH69 million was spent on Policy plant facilities to re-use scrap materials.
environmental monitoring and maintenance Operating practices and growth plans Monitor processes and employee activities.
Charges payable under emissions will be implemented in a manner behaviour in order to minimise waste and regulations declined slightly from UAH32 consistent with the principles underlying by-product contaminants and improve the million in 2011 to UAH31 million in 2012 long-term sustainable resource condition of plant and equipment.
due to lower waste disposal charges.
development: Ferrexpo will always bear Monitor dust and gas emissions and waste in mind the long-term environmental effluents in order to keep them below the Ongoing environmental management consequences of its actions.
permitted limits and reduce them further activities in 2012 included the building of All operating assets are required to wherever possible.
reservoirs for water conservation using develop and implement environmental Work with engineers and National Design mining overburden to build dams, further management systems, in line with Institutes to ensure that modernisation and development of the closed water cycle Group policy.
production growth plans include designs for production activities, environmental All new capital projects will include and documentation that reduce their overall equipment upgrades and landscaping work.
environmental risk assessments impact on the environment.
according to IFC International Finance Monitor new technologies that could assist Organisational Responsibility Corporation Environmental and in the reprocessing of iron ore tailings.
Ferrexpo has a dedicated Environmental Social Performance Standards and Department the primary responsibility of which mitigation plans.
Performance is to ensure that all necessary permits are in Monitoring the effectiveness of environmental place, to undertake monitoring in accordance Goals policy includes the review of key KPIs for with the prevailing regulatory requirements and Maximise recovery of iron from ore, tailings, emissions which are shown below.
to supervise the implementation of an agreed and concentrate so as to ensure the best programme of environmental improvements use of Ferrexpos natural resource.
Emissions in Tonnes based on the Departments own assessments.
Minimise use of production consumables 2012 2011 2010 such as water, electricity, natural gas, Total gas emissions 6,332 5,803 6,294 diesel fuel, and explosives in order to Of which: reduce demand for externally sourced Nitrogen dioxide 3,293 2,475 2,922 natural resources.
Carbon monoxide 2,226 2,345 2,336 Use timely investment to sustain existing Sulphur dioxide 813 887 937 operations, and develop new projects so Total solid emissions 3,296 3,968 3,575 as to allow mineral resource to be Total emissions 9,628 9,771 9,869 converted into new iron ore reserves.
45 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility continued Ferrexpo is a major sponsor of FC Vorskla, a football club based in the Poltava Region which plays in the Ukraine Premier League.
As well as providing important advertising opportunities for Ferrexpo, this sponsorship of a club that is enthusiastically supported by many people in the local community is a key part of Ferrexpos social responsibility strategy Community Context can within reason provide value added Communities The Poltava region, in which Ferrexpos solutions or alternatives.
mining operations are situated, is an area of Give preference to suitably qualified local predominantly flat agricultural land close to residents when hiring to fill vacancies.
the River Dnieper, one of the largest European Policy river systems and an important transport Performance Ferrexpos presence should benefit artery for Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.
Iron Community Initiatives those communities around its ore mining in the area dates from the 19th FPM operations: operations will benefit century, although the major expansion of FPM has been a significant investor in local if local communities are thriving.
mining activity occurred in the early 20th community initiatives from the outset, investing Ferrexpo strives to be recognised century.
The town of Komsomolsk was substantial funds in the social infrastructure as an attractive local employer and established adjacent to the mine to support of Komsomolsk and the surrounding a concerned corporate citizen.
the mining operation and ancillary industries area.
These funds have been spent on Ferrexpo will assist in the development of transport, power etc.
Ferrexpo is still by medical facilities, social services, education, the micro-economic environment within far the largest employer in the town, which religion, culture and sporting activities, as the communities in which it operates, so has a population of around 55,000 people, well as on the maintenance of certain of as to ensure that their dependence on with approximately 23% of the working the citys social and cultural structures.
Ferrexpo for their livelihood is reduced.
population of Komsomolsk being employed Ferrexpo aims to enhance and by the mine in one capacity or another.
Links with the local community are have a positive relationship with the strengthened by meetings of senior communities around it: to hold an open Goals management with heads of schools and dialogue with those communities: and to Make operational leadership accessible to colleges, supporting local celebration days, ensure that its involvement with them is the various local citizen groups and giving vocational guidance and vacation cost effective and relevant to their needs.
organisations, so as to allow Ferrexpo to work to the students of local schools assess and prioritise their concerns about including providing financial sponsorship its various initiatives.
to individual students whom FPM may Provide expertise and voluntary services in subsequently employ and organising student order to sustain and or improve community excursions to FPM and its museum.
infrastructure, supplying financial assistance where appropriate.
Historically, FPM has employed a significant Participate in the development of modern number of people in providing support cultural and social programmes and services to the Groups mining activities.
activities in the local area.
In many cases, these services could be Work consistently with local town and made available on a commercial basis to village councils in order to understand their other enterprises within the local community expectations of Ferrexpo, so that Ferrexpo which in turn improves the viability and 46 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements sustainability of the local economy.
To encourage this process, FPM has offered Community initiatives achieved in 2012 financial and other support to employees who provide these in-house services so During 2012, FPM and FYM continued to Upgrades to the local and employer as to encourage them to transform internal pursue the policy of fostering relationships bus transport vehicles departments into stand-alone businesses.
with the communities around the perimeter More than 300 workers hired of the mining and processing sites, including from the local communities FYM Komsomolsk, Dmitrovka, and Pryshyb.
Donation of modern equipment FYM strives to contribute to all spheres of Work in Komsomolsk, the town where FPM to school classrooms the life of the local community, believing that and FYM are based, and where much of Purchase of advanced a healthy and flourishing community is of the workforce lives, has concentrated on equipment for local hospitals crucial importance for sustainable growth initiatives designed to increase its attractions Continuation of the My First Job in its operations.
As a rapidly expanding as a place in which to live, and thus create programme, and placement for 92 company, FYM has been able to provide favourable conditions for the development of graduates of the local technical schools significant employment opportunities for local the pool of labour on which Ferrexpo relies: Renovations and repairs to schools people and aims to have good relationships and sports facilities, and hostel with the communities near its operations.
First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH formerly Helogistics Holding GmbH The Group acquired the river transport company Helogistics Holding GmbH now renamed First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH First-DDSG at the end of 2010.
Because of the different nature of its activities its CSR is reported on separately from that of the Groups mining operations.
Ferrexpos strategy is to integrate FirstDDSG fully into Ferrexpos CSR culture.
a Health and Safety The accident rate at First-DDSG during 2012 was determined by six lost time accidents, equating to a LTIFR of 8.11 accidents per million man hours, and a total of 70 lost days, with no fatalities.
Accidents were mainly due Refurbishment of schools to aid with to injuries causes by handling equipment insulation and upgrade of equipment during frequent barging and mooring operations.
Accidents are reported to and discussed at monthly meetings with the senior management of the Group, and steps are taken to minimise their reoccurrence.
b Employees First-DDSG provides training for staff so that they can develop the knowledge, skills and values necessary for the performance of their roles.
c Environmental First-DDSG complies with the applicable environmental regulations of the countries along the Danube in which it operates for example, regarding the prevention of fuel leakages and the grounding of barges.
d Community As a transport company operating over a wide area rather than concentrated in one place, First-DDSG does not at present consider it appropriate to incur significant expenditure on community initiatives.
