Corporate responsibility We believe a strong commitment to corporate responsibility supports greater employee engagement, improved customer service and increased business efficiency, leading to improved performance.
Delivering sustainable travel Safety Our customers We live in a world facing major transport challenges.
The demands and service Safety is one of our core values.
We are We constantly strive to deliver better services expectations of a growing population need dedicated to ensuring the safety of our and improve the customer experience across to beaccommodated while also conserving employees and the millions of passengers all our businesses.
We undertake extensive resources and reducing carbon emissions.
research on customer satisfaction, from surveys to more direct feedback opportunities, including We are well placed to help address these Key developments this year include: focus groups.
Our buses and trains are Lost Time Injuries work-related injuries or illness fundamental to more sustainable travel solutions.
Developments in 2011 12: that result in an employee being unable to work Given that we move some 2.5 billion passengers a subsequent scheduled work day or shift has We started a large-scale fleet modernisation a year, our contribution is already significant.
fallen to 8.8 per 1,000 employees in 2011 12. programme in UK Bus.
Around 1,000 new We will continue to improve our services, invest This has been falling for the last four years and vehicles, designed with input from customers, in technology and work with our partners to represents a 58% drop since 2007 08 will be introduced ensure that public transport continues to expand We collaborated with the National Safety Council We are investing 27 million in state-of-the-art the critical role it plays.
None of this is possible in North America to create an awareness bus ticketing technology throughout the UK without the support of our 124,000 employees campaign which reinforces back-to-school safety excluding London in 2012 13.
The technology and the creative power they represent.
messages, from teen driving to preventing bullying will give us a smartcard platform and will Corporate responsibility helpus reduce the barriers to bus travel by We introduced a new training DVD to educate alsoenabling us to offer customers touch in, management employees in North America on inattention touch out contactless payment using their Our corporate responsibility programme is led by blindness, helping to reduce the incidents of bank cards the Executive Management Board EMB, which sleeping children left on buses by more than half reports directly to the Board.
It is developed In Greyhound we have extended our successful In the UK, Passenger Safety Month saw our bus and assured in line with the AA1000 Assurance partnership with 7-Eleven which gives more companies working with community groups, Standard and the Associated Assurance customers access to online ticket deals.
local authorities and other partners to promote Principles Standard AA1000APS.
Since Approximately half of Greyhounds passengers safer behaviour amongst passengers and 2008 an external advisory group has provided pay by cash: this initiative allows customers, roadusers.
input to our corporate responsibility strategy.
including those without credit cards, to order From 2012 13 this will be evolved to a broader online or by phone and then pay at one of stakeholder panel to strengthen our engagement 6,400local 7-Eleven stores on corporate responsibilityissues.
In UK Rail we are trialling new mobile phone apps, increasing Facebook and Twitter use, improving access to real-time information andextending ticket purchasing options.
Lost Time Injuries have fallen by Customers can now order Greyhound tickets online and pay at 58% 6,400 since 2007 08 local 7-Eleven stores www.
com corporate cr 42 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements A detailed review of our performance is available in our CR report.
Our employees Environment Community Our people are fundamental to the success of Public transport makes an important Public transport is vital to all our local our business and we are committed to engaging contribution to reducing emissions from travel communities carrying people to work, school our employees with the Group and making First by encouraging people to switch from private and other destinations each day.
We want a great place to work.
This year we reaffirmed cars.
We are also committed to reducing the to play an active and positive role in the this commitment by becoming a member of the carbon footprint of our operations, from our communities weserve.
UK Governments Employee Engagement Task vehicle emissions, to recycling on our trains, Our community engagement this year includes: Force and our management provide advice and to energy use in ourbuildings.
In the UK we have donated advertising space Key achievements this year include: worth 400,000 to promote Save the Childrens Other developments during the year include: First Transit is helping its customers to improve campaigns.
This forms part of our community In UK Bus we have significantly increased the safety and reduce fuel consumption by contributions across the Group of over focus of management across the division on deploying DriveCam technology in a number 1.6million in cash and in kind in the last year employee communication.
We have launched of locations.
This gives our customers access First Student has been named Experience internal magazines and bulletins and opened up to information that can help to manage their Works New Jersey Employer Champion more opportunities for employees to feed back vehicles more effectively, improve fuel efficiency of theYear.
Experience Works helps older their views to managers and lower emissions adultsget the training they need to find jobs In the UK, lifelong learning remains a core part In UK Rail, new EU regulation on sulphur Our support for the Outward Bound Trust in of our development provision.
All our UK Bus content has had a negative impact on fuel theUK enabled children with learning difficulties employees now have access to programmes efficiency.
Driver Advisory Systems are being from Woodlands Special School to go on an through online facilities, with 85% also having introduced to offset this, which should deliver outdoor residential course access through local learningcentres between 8-15% carbon savings.
Installation is complete for the First Great Western High In April, when a tornado ravaged parts First Transit has held General Manager regional Speed Train fleet ofAlabama, we provided shuttle services conferences to improve networking and share for search and rescue personnel and best practice, whilst Greyhound carried out Our DriveGreen programme won the Carbon transportation between local hospitals executive roadshows in Canada Reduction Award at the 2011 Environmental andshelters.
This technology, fitted First Student has increased opportunities for to all our buses in the UK, includes an LED Summary feedback on how systems and processes traffic light display which encourages safe can be improved.
An Engineering Group site Our strong commitment to corporate and efficient driving and has contributed has been launched to promote networking responsibility is driven by our belief that it toanimproved fuel economy figure of 2.3% and increase collaboration between can leadto improved business performance.
across our UK Bus division.
locations as well as holding management Motivated employees, strong customer service, briefingroadshows.
safe and sustainable operations provided in partnership with our communities are all key togreater efficiency and growth.
Access tolifelong learning DriveGreen technology in 2011 12 saw us donate available to UK Bus helped contribute to a 100% 2.3% 1.6m of UK Bus employees fuel efficiency improvement in community contributions across the division FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
