com Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility BACKGROUND The following are just a few examples of the initiatives we have Alent employs some 2,600 people undertaken to support health, safety and environmental activities: 2011: 2,600, has a global base of 23 manufacturing facilities and is serving Conict Minerals Metals Recycling customers in more than 100 countries worldwide.
We supply our customers with consumable products for use in their manufacturing processes, for example in the production of electronics, automotive, LED lighting and alternative energy products.
We operate in just in time supply chains with short lead times from order to delivery.
We therefore have a relatively large number of small and medium sized facilities located close to our customers throughout the worlds major economic regions, rather than large Alent has been very engaged with critical Alent moves c5% of the worlds tin in any centralised factories supplying customers industry stakeholders in the Conict Minerals given year.
We continue to invest and worldwide.
Our manufacturing processes issue and regulation over the last few years.
expand in our capabilities to take back are not energy intensive total energy costs In August 2012, the US Securities and metal waste streams and responsibly are approximately 1% of revenue and do Exchange Committee SEC published reclaim that waste into high purity raw not produce large quantities of hazardous materials for reuse.
Our metals recycling the final rules of implementation of Section or other wastes and emissions.
services operate the largest metals 1502 of the Dodd Frank Act regarding recycling facility in North America with Conict Minerals.
This Act was enacted by SUSTAINABILITY major operations in Europe, and significant Congress in order to help eradicate the sales Alent is committed to a sustainable operations in the Asia-Pacic and South of Conict Minerals from the Democratic societal, commercial and environmental American regions.
As an example, in 2012 Republic of Congo DRC and adjoining global eco-system.
We are focused on our largest recycling operation processed countries the Conict Countries.
promoting sustainability throughout our over 3.2m kg of solder scrap metal The Act requires any USA publicly held environmentally friendly product and producing clean feed material for reuse in company to annually disclose its use of technology development activities, our our manufacturing operations.
conict minerals that originated in Conict operations, and the development of our Countries.
As a UK listed company we are people.
We believe these efforts will not required to comply but we choose to Green Technologies benefit the environment, our business, do so as we strongly believe in this initiative.
customers, shareholders, our people and Conict minerals are those minerals whose our worldwide value chain.
derivatives are Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten or Gold.
We take very seriously our obligations We recognise our operations impact a in this process and have been very proactive wide community of stakeholders, including in communicating our goals to our suppliers investors, customers, business associates, for transparency and have documented our people and local communities.
certication of our source tins status as Therefore, the Company has a wide range Conict-Free.
of initiatives to support health, safety and environmental activities.
Those activities Alent is actively participating in the Conictinclude advanced manufacturing facilities, Free Tin Initiative, launched in September designed to international standards, a high 2012 by the Dutch government.
Its aim is Alents commitment to being a leading and level of training for chemical operators, to establish a pilot programme to create preferred supplier of high performance and segregation of raw materials and demand for conict-free tin from a conict specialty chemicals includes developing nished goods.
region whose economy has collapsed due technologies that are socially responsible to a series of severe internal and crossand eco-friendly.
Our product technologies All of our operations are designed with border conicts.
This initiative is designed focus is to develop  waste water treatment and pollution to prevent an unintended boycott of products, many that are lead-free, halogenabatement equipment which meets or minerals from the area due to the increased free and hexavalent-free.
Many of our exceeds local compliance requirements.
due diligence required when supplying products and processes help support our Conict Minerals from Conict Countries.
30 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 We collaborate with our customers, We believe in the importance of investing in We believe our people are our technology partners, and the worlds and developing our most valued asset: our competitive advantage and we have leading manufacturers to ensure that people.
We utilise a variety of programmes created comprehensive development our green technologies create value by tailored to help them enhance their opportunities to introduce, reinforce and meeting current and future performance, performance, set and achieve objectives, further strengthen their special talents.
productivity, design, profitability, safety, and develop their leadership skills.
In These opportunities include: and regulatory requirements.
addition, we recognise and reward their achievements.
Our programmes are based EDGE Employee Development { Water Treatment on our core values: Generates Excellence Programmes: Our water treatment business has long Six Sigma: { customer and marketplace-oriented { been committed to developing products health & welfare plans: { innovation: and services that help our customers lower { incentive plans: their environmental impact.
The product teamwork and collaboration: { { Alent leadership programmes: and range is formulated and packaged in an enthusiasm and passion: { ecologically responsible way: our R&D Alent technical training.
{ { results-orientation: people-orientation: facilities continue to nd new ways for and businesses, commercial and domestic We believe that these initiatives are { exibility, responsiveness, and agility.
customers to reduce their carbon footprint an important reason for our ability to through improved energy efficiency.
Our consistently help create added value for our product range has been independently There are several critical success factors customers, allowing us to outperform many veried by the Carbon Trust and has been that underpin our strategy while driving other competitors in our industry segments.
recognised as environmentally sound our people development initiatives: with additional accreditations from KIWA, Belgaqua, BuildCert, DWTA, as well as we must be a customer and market { being Energy Savings Trust recommended.
driven company that our customers rely Our products lessen the impact on the on and prefer to do business with: planet by preventing corrosion and scale we must be a company that develops { formation as well as delivering actual high value, innovative products in a improvements in heat transfer capability.
timely manner: and Effective water treatment is essential, not { we must create an organisation that has only to minimise overall carbon emissions, deep technical competence.
but to conserve fuel reserves.
We are also extending our product portfolio specially To achieve success, we need to ensure that designed for renewable technologies, to we work within a culture that supports these increase our ability to deliver greater energy critical success factors.
Our comprehensive efficiency across a breadth of applications.
development opportunities help introduce, reinforce and further strengthen each of For more information on our sustainability our peoples special talents.
Regardless of initiatives, please visit what stage in their career, each programme www.
com Sustainability challenges participants to learn new and better ways to achieve their personal and OUR PEOPLE professional goals.
It is the policy of the Group to provide equal opportunities for all its people.
We are committed to meeting the labour rights and legislation requirements in each country in which we operate.
The International Labour Organisation has identied eight core conventions as being fundamental to the rights of people in the workplace.
We note those conventions and express our support for the principles.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 31 OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE www.
com Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility continued Charitable work Particular emphasis is focused on the in good faith and with respect for the following areas: dignity of the individual.
All Group Alent has ofces throughout the world companies must ensure that recruitment, and we seek to engage with the local Code of Conduct: requiring all of our training, promotion, career development, community in each of our regional areas.
businesses and our people to comply with termination and similar employmentThe needs of the communities in which the highest standards of legal and ethical related issues are based on individual we operate are varied and diverse and behaviour.
ability, achievement, experience and although there are no global initiatives, conduct without regard to race, colour, there are numerous grassroots charitable Health, Safety and Environment: nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, efforts carried out within the regions.
protecting the health and safety of our gender, sexual orientation, age, disability Examples include: people, contractors, customers and the or any other reason not related to general public and reducing energy job performance or prohibited by American Cancer Society year round { consumption and waste in our operations.
donations are generated through various events including participation in Products and Services: developing The Group is committed to the highest the Relay for Life event: innovative products and services which standards of corporate governance and donations are made to soup kitchens { promote sustainability in our customers transparent investor communication, through Group sponsored food drives: production processes and products.
as discussed in more detail in the { Christmas gift purchases are donated to Governance section of this report.
multiple charities: and CODE OF CONDUCT Alent seeks to be a good corporate citizen { donations have been made throughout The Group has a Code of Conduct wherever it conducts business, to observe the years in support of natural disasters the Alent Code, which has been all national and local laws and take into such as tsunamis, earthquakes and distributed throughout the Group in account regional and local concerns, hurricanes.
over 25 languages and by which all of customs and traditions.
our businesses are required to operate.
Employee helpline The Alent Code emphasises the Groups The Alent Code requires all of its people, commitment to compliance with the Alent has a 24-hour Employee Business ofcers and Directors to have a duty of highest standards of legal and ethical Concern Helpline telephone and email loyalty to the Group.
The Alent Code is reproduced facility.
This is an independent and that do, may or might appear to conict in full on the Groups website condential service through which with Group interests must be avoided at www.
com our people worldwide may register all times.
any concerns about any incorrect or The Alent Code sets out clear and simple irregular practices they perceive in Alents Approach to anti-bribery and principles covering: Customers, Products workplaces.
corruption training and Services: Our People: Investors: The Alent Code and its policies on Society and Local Communities: Health, POLICY anti-bribery and corruption require that Safety and the Environment: Conicts of Alent recognises that appropriate employees and others working on behalf Interest: and Competitors.
attention to the fullment of our corporate of the Company do not engage in any responsibilities can enhance overall form of bribery or corruption.
Long-term customer satisfaction is performance.
In structuring our approach recognised as being essential to to the various aspects of corporate Our anti-bribery and corruption the attainment of Group goals, as is social responsibility, we take account compliance programme will be maintaining a reputation for integrity in refreshed and relaunched throughout of guidelines and statements issued by all business and other dealings both with the Company and will be implemented stakeholder representatives and other customers and suppliers.
The Alent Code through a targeted face-to-face training regulatory bodies from around the world.
defines how we must compete vigorously programme.
An e-learning module will be Social, environmental and ethical matters and honestly.
New employees, as are reviewed by the Board, including the relevant, will go through the training as impact such matters may have on the The Group believes it can only achieve part of their induction process.
its goals through the efforts of its people.
Job satisfaction requires working environments that motivate our people, together with opportunities for training and development to maximise personal potential.
Wherever they work, our people have the right to be treated 32 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Environmental performance: reducing public database in which consumers and HS&E energy consumption and greenhouse gas professionals can nd information on emissions.
Alent is committed to operating a sustainable, responsible organisation REGULATORY COMPLIANCE All of the Alent operations involved in that protects the environment and the the manufacturing of chemicals have health and safety of those with whom we Alents 23 manufacturing locations are complied with the regulatory requirements have relationships our customers, our certied to ISO 14001, the international of this EU initiative and continue to do so.
suppliers, our shareholders, our people, the standard for environmental management We are also working intensively on the environment and the communities where we systems.
In addition, 19 of our operations development and testing of alternative conduct our activities.
Our commitment to are certied to OHSAS 18001, the less hazardous substances for use in our protecting the environment is focused both international occupational health and electroplating processes.
on minimising the impact of our operations safety management system.
Certication and on making a contribution towards a to these international standards is not sustainable future through the design of appropriate for all facilities, particularly RoHS our products.
Compliance with applicable smaller ones and those with very limited The Restriction of the Use of certain health, safety and environmental laws and environmental impact.
Hazardous Substances in Electrical and regulations is a fundamental obligation for all Electronic Equipment Directive was our businesses.
We therefore monitor energy Regulatory actions against Alent transposed into UK law on 2 January 2013. consumption and greenhouse gas emissions companies have been at a low level As a supplier to the electronics industry, as Group level KPIs.
This is indicative of our products must conform to the RoHS the emphasis on continuous HS&E regulations and all of our products are We are committed to maintaining a performance improvement across the certied to those standards.
level of health, safety and environmental industry in relation to statutory obligations.
performance that is amongst the leaders in the specialty chemicals industry, and to Like many manufacturers, some of our demonstrating respect for the individual operations have potential environmental and the environment.
We recognise that liabilities because of past operations successful HS&E management involves at their current or former sites.
Where integrating sound principles and practice remediation is required, we work with into our daily activities so that business external specialists and with government management and good performance authorities to ensure that remediation is levels are achieved by the collaborative conducted effectively and efficiently.
effort of all of our people.
REACH The Board has overall responsibility for REACH is a European Union regulation Alents HS&E policy and for monitoring concerning the Regulation, Evaluation, its implementation.
Executives and Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals.
line managers at all levels are directly The regulation came into force in 2007 and responsible through the normal replaces a number of European directives management structure for HS&E matters in and regulations with a single system.
the operations under their control.
The REACH Regulation places greater responsibility on industry to manage Particular emphasis is focused on the risk and to provide safety information following areas: on chemicals used in its manufacturing processes.
Manufacturers and importers Regulatory compliance: compliance are required to gather information on the with air, water and waste emissions, and properties of their chemical substances, industrial hygiene criteria: and to register the information in a central database run by the European Health and Safety performance: Chemicals Agency ECHA in Helsinki.
The protecting the health and safety of our Agency acts as the central point in the people, contractors, customers and the REACH system: it manages the databases general public: and necessary to operate the system, coordinates the in-depth evaluation of suspicious chemicals and builds up a STOCK CODE: ALNT 33 OUR PERFORMANCE 3.00 OUR PERFORMANCE www.
com Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility continued TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE TRIR TRIR 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00 2009 2012 2010 2011 OSHA Alent OSHA data for 2012 has yet to be published LOST WORK INCIDENT RATE LWIR Incident Rate 1.50 16m 1.00 0.50 0.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 OSHA Alent OSHA data for 2012 has yet to be published HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Global incident Rate Alents operations involve the normal Alent uses a number of metrics to evaluate health and safety risks associated with health and safety performance globally.
manufacturing and other activities in All Alent facilities report injuries in the countries we operate.
Alents HS&E accordance with United States Department management programmes are designed of Labor Occupational Safety and Health to be forward-looking in the identication, Administration OSHA record keeping management and mitigation of HS&E risks.
Our incident rates are compared to We utilise audits, inspections and risk analyses NAICS 35 the chemical manufacturing to assess and continually improve our safety incident rates from the US Dept.
Both management system and Bureau of Labor Statistics.
compliance audits are performed and results shared across the organisation.
Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR measures the number of recordable injuries illnesses We developed a new communications per 100 workers.
In 2012, Alent achieved vehicle in 2012, to address common safety a TRIR of 0.64, a 12.3% improvement over concerns identied through incident 2011.
Lost Work Incident Rate LWIR tracks reports and internal audits.
Safety Bulletins the number of injuries illnesses per 100 serve as a concise platform to convey workers with one day or more away from critical safety information and programmes work.
Alents 2012 LWIR was 0.30, a 31.8% that can be deployed throughout Alent in improvement over 2011.
OSHA data for 2012 a timely manner.
Safety Bulletins released has yet to be published.
in 2012 covered topics such as transferring and dispensing hazardous materials, incident reporting and investigation, and management of change.
34 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 ENERGY CONSUMPTION MMBtu 300,000 290,000 280,000 270,000 260,000 250,000 240,000 2010 2011 2012 GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 & 2 2 Tonnes CO e 30,000 28,000 26,000 24,000 22,000 20,000 2010 2011 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Energy Consumption GHG Emissions Our manufacturing processes are not Alents methodology for measuring GHG energy intensive and do not produce large emissions follows the Greenhouse Gas quantities of air emissions.
Alent operates a Protocols of the World Business Council for programme aimed at reducing energy use Sustainable Development and the World and its associated emissions of greenhouse Resource Institute.
Alent reports direct and gases GHG.
This programme trains our indirect GHG emissions in terms of CO - 2 people to understand energy use and equivalents COe.
Direct GHG emissions 2 sets specic annual goals to reduce our are those that occur from stationary and energy consumption.
We also leverage our mobile sources that Alent owns or controls.
extensive Six Sigma Programme to identify These emissions are also referred to as and execute projects around the reduction Scope 1 emissions.
Indirect emissions, or of energy consumption at our facilities Scope 2 emissions, are related to the use around the world.
In 2012, Alent consumed 260,290 million In 2012, Alent had 8,881 metric tons of Btu British Thermal Units MM Btu direct and 15,660 metric tons of indirect of energy.
Of this, 82,397 MM Btu was GHG emissions.
On an absolute basis, our electricity use indirect energy.
The total GHG emissions decreased 7.3% from remainder of our energy use consisted of 2011.
Similar to energy, this reduction was natural gas and fuel oil direct energy.
On achieved through the implementation of an absolute basis, our energy consumption energy and GHG reduction projects.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 35 OUR PERFORMANCE
