78 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development An enduring commitment to the safety From the Chairman of the HSECR Committee Sustainable development is an essential component of and health of our employees, responsible Fresnillo plcs business model and is achieved through environmental stewardship, the wellbeing theapplication of the Health, Safety, Environment and of the communities where we operate, Community Relations HSECR System.
The report which accompanies this letter summarises the most relevant and adherence to best governance aspects of the Companys HSECR record and performance practices.
As a Committee of the Board of Directors, the main responsibility of the HSECR Committee the Committee isto ensure on behalf of the Board that the management of the Company achieves health, safety, environment andcommunity relations objectives.
The Committee mettwice in 2012 April and October.
What we did in 2012 The Company suffered six fatalities of contractor personnel during2012, a situation that remains unacceptable: the Company andthe Committee extend their most sincere condolences to each oftheir families The Committee has continued to stress that safety is first at all times as further detailed in the Safety section The Company requested a second independent review by Rafael MacGregor  to verify progress on the HSECR Action Plan Chairman Health, Safety, Environment 20122016: the HSECR System has reached a 64.6% maturity level.
and Community Relations Committee Thegoal by 2016 is that the System will become fully integrated andmature Designation of HSECR Leaders and Coordinators at all mine units Denition of KPIs key performance indicators and KRIs key risk indicators for the HSECR System Improvement of accounting methodology for HSECR investments What we plan to do in 2013 Reinforcement of the Safety Action Plan Incorporation of the HSECR framework at advanced projects SanJulin, Centauro Deep and others Reinforcement of the integration of contractors into HSECR processes Implementation of a more robust reporting and assurance programme for the HSECR system Continued progress to reach a fully mature HSECR System by 2016 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 79 1 2 3 4 Safety Environment As opposed to 2011, when most of the accidents were caused The Company maintained its ISO 14001 and Clean Industry certicates byrockfalls derived from structural weaknesses, during 2012 and made continued progress on the implementation of the Cyanide thefatalities resulted from breaches by contractor personnel Code certication process.
Other highlights include: ofCompany safety procedures.
T he Company promoted adherence by contractors to the Clean Industry programme, headed by the Mexican Environmental Management has informed the Committee that it has already Procurement Agency PROFEPA reinforced the Safety Action Plan in coordination with internal andexternal advisors and will ensure a more robust supervision I mplementation of the Environmental Leadership for andadherence to safety guidelines, including more stringent Competitiveness Programme to promote waste recycling measures and consequences for violations to the Rules That opportunities in the value chain SaveLives.
In some cases, these measures have involved T he Company participated in the second stage of the Mexican terminationof the relationships with contractors.
Greenhouse Gas Programme through the verication of greenhouse gas emissions inventory Also noteworthy amongst the highlights are: P rogress on the implementation of the Safety Self-Management Community Relations programme and OHSAS 18001 certication processes The Company continued supporting local communities where L aunch of the No More Accidents programme to stress the itoperates.
Highlights include: message to all personnel that safety is an essential working condition: the programme achieved an important reduction D enition of Community Relations guidelines ofaccidents over the same period as compared to 2011 I mproved traceability of Companys social programmes C ontinuance of works with advisors on rock mechanics I mplementation of institutional programmes such as a Sustainability andventilation Calendar, A Leer IBBY culture of reading and PROEMPLEO business skills for local suppliers G reater supervision of contractor personnel The Company supported 24 contractor companies to S upport of social infrastructure such as a public plaza at Cinega, incorporateinto their operations the Safety Self-Management awater well at Saucito, a church at Belea Fresnillo Mine and programme headed by the Mexican Ministry of Labour theexpansion of the Community Centre for Caborca Penmont The Board, through the Committee, will continue to stress to Health management the importance of achieving excellence on HSECR Launch of the Alert ON programme, which is a preventive alert matters, with safety on the forefront of the Companys priorities and systemfor chronic health issues, including fatigue or consumption with a view of achieving full maturity of the HSECR System by 2016. ofdrugs or alcohol.
Other highlights include: I mplementation of the Promoting Life campaign, where the Company provided information on healthier lifestyles R equests made to key contractor companies to incorporate amedical doctor and a clinic within their operations Rafael MacGregor M aintenance of preventive programmes for occupational health Chairman Health, Safety, Environment and C ontinuance of medical campaigns, including vaccination and Community Relations Committee periodical medical examinations Key milestones Future targets 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 Implementation of a more Update platforms and software HSECR Committee First Self-reporting of First external Safety Action robust reporting and assurance in accordance to reviewed formed and Communication GHG emissions verication of Plan and second programme for the HSECR strategic objectives policies dened on Progress for through Mexican HSECR system: independent system: align contractors UN Global Greenhouse Gas denition of the review of the Compact: Mexican Programme: Action Plan HSECR system to Greenhouse registered in the 20122016 verify its progress: Gas Programme Carbon Disclosure denition ofKPIs 2014 2016 certication for Project in the FTSE and KRIs Update HSECR system objectives HSECR system fully integrated self-reporting 350 category for emissions self-reporting on with strategic objectives, review across the entire organisation level of integration and Climate performance 20132018 Achieve zero fatalities target and integrate interest of all stakeholders to the programme 80 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development Sustainability at a glance This table highlights the key drivers of our health, safety, environment and community relations framework.
We determine materiality for our Sustainability Strategy, HSECR System and this report based on recommendations from the HSECR Committee and operational team, findings from the Enterprise Risk Management programme, our participation in national and global initiatives, and a wide variety of analyses undertaken by Management.
Why it matters Our programmes and processes KPIs Health The Groups personnel are the most critical factor for the successful execution of our business strategy.
Their health and wellbeing include not only the absence of illness, but personal fullment physically and psychologically.
Opportunity: Physical and mental health, as well as Occupational health: Prevention and care D isabling occupational healthier lifestyles, can raise productivity, family ofoccupational illnesses historically related to diseaserate wellness, community satisfaction and reputation.
Lost work days rate Challenge: Poor health amongst workers and General health: Prevention and care of chronic forgeneraldiseases communities can impact safety, reputation, andinfectious diseases.
Promotion of healthy lifestyles: Outreach and capacity building.
Alert On: Early warning system for health problems that may lead to safety incidents.
Safety The Groups personnel are the most critical factor for the successful execution of our business strategy.
Their safety requires controls over operational processes, the empowerment of each worker to live within a culture of safety, andcompliance with jurisdictional regulations.
Opportunity: A culture of safety and operational Certication processes: OHSAS 18001 and F atalities discipline can raise productivity and reputation.
A ccident rate Challenge: Poor safety behaviours and failure Leadership and Commitment: Outreach, oversight L ost work days rate toadhere to procedures can impact safety and enforcement of safety activities by senior performance, cause injuries and fatalities, management.
disruptoperations, impact productivity, Behavioural improvements: Technical and conduct employeesatisfaction and reputation, skills to promote an individual and collective culture andsubjectusto legal claims.
Operational discipline: Oversight and enforcement ofprocesses to eliminate unsafe conditions.
Rules that Save Lives: Mandatory rules for everyperson in situations where a breach mayleadtofatality.
Quality in accidents investigation: Analysis and implementation of changes to prevent future occurrences of past safety incidents.
Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 81 1 2 3 4 Why it matters Our programmes and processes KPIs Environment Environmental stewardship supports i profitability through the efficient use of inputs: ii reputation, which is intrinsic to our social license to operate: and iii compliance with jurisdictional legislation.
Opportunity: Growth potential through access to Certication processes: ISO 14001, Clean Industry U nit consumption of energy environmental permits: better operating efficiency and Cyanide Code.
U nit consumption of and profitability: a shared culture of environmental freshwater Eco-efficiency: Water and energy consumption, awareness and conservation can improve community emissions reduction.
U nit GHG emissions Remediation: Tailing dams restoration, soil and P ersonnel hours required Challenge: Poor environmental performance and habitat remediation.
forenvironmental incident inefficient use of resources may impede access remediation toenvironmental permits, weaken strategic Conservation: Flora and fauna restitution, relationships, increase the cost of key inputs, reforestation, care for endangered species.
impactreputation, subject us to legal claims anddisrupt operations.
Community relations As part of the communities where we operate, success has to be mutual to be sustainable and must extend from the earliest stages of land acquisition and exploration to beyond the operating life of a mine.
Engagement efforts support reputation, which is intrinsic to our social license to operate.
Opportunity: Support for our operations is Human resources: enhanced by investment in the long-term Recruitment and selection: Attracting new and A verage training hours self-sustainability of local communities strategic talent to the Group, particularly in the area of T urnover rate economic, social and environmental Earth Sciences.
E mployee satisfaction Training and performance evaluation: Aligning Challenge: Poor engagement efforts may lead individual skills and performance with business tonegative perceptions and impact reputation, targets.
impacting current and future projects: insufficient vision and investment in long-term self-sustainability Retention and succession: Enhancing workplace may create dependency on our operations.
satisfaction, reducing turnover, ensuring operational continuity.
Communities: Environmental culture: Outreach and execution B eneciaries in community ofenvironmental stewardship programmes.
programmes Education: Programmes to increase literacy C ommunity relations andacademic skills.
performance index Social welfare: Promotion of social interaction, C ommunity perception index sportsand public health.
Self-development: Training and development programmes for non-mining livelihoods.
Social infrastructure: Provision of basic services.
82 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development HSECR System Management Sustainability strategy We requested a second independent review by Sustainability has been a core strategic driver for Fresnillo plc since its  to verify progress on the HSECR Action Plan founding.
At the time of the IPO the Groups mining units already had adopted in 2011 to advance the maturity of our system in terms of in place established programmes and we had broad experience strategy, structure, processes, people and technology.
Broadly in line managing social and environmental issues within Mexicos regulatory with plan, we reached a maturity level of 64.6% in 2012 2011: 56.6%, framework.
The listing in the UK market brought new requirements with a commitment to achieving in 2016 a fully integrated HSECR and opportunities to enhance our sustainability strategy, system at all business units, which aligns with international best implementation and controls.
practices, incorporates key stakeholders and embraces the process As part of its corporate governance role, in 2008 the Board structured ofcontinuous improvement.
and empowered the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations HSECR Committee to oversee the Groups social and HSECR Action Plan: 2012 milestones environmental programme.
In 2011 the Board approved the R edesign and simplication of the HSECR System Sustainability Strategy of the Group, which is integrated within the business model and underpins our entire value chain.
A pproval and dissemination of the Sustainable Development Policy To incentivise performance on HSECR issues at all levels within the C onsolidation of the HSECR team with the designation of an HSECR Group, environmental and social objectives are included in the Leader and HSECR Coordinator in the business units performance evaluations of applicable employees such as managers F ormalisation and monitoring of key performance indicators and operational superintendents, amongst others.
For operational P reparation of corporate guidelines for HSECR institutional directors and managers, annual bonuses depend on environmental programmes and budgets and social variables such as fatalities and eco-efficiency measures.
I mproved accounting standards for HSECR investments Grants are awarded to work teams that propose and implement successful efficiency projects: these teams may be comprised of D enition certain control and reporting tools union and non-union employees, as well as contractors.
In 2012 we also aligned the Exploration Division within the HSECR system: introduced safety, health and environmental requirements forour key contractor companies: re-launched Crisis Management Committees at all mine units: and incorporated HSECR elements intocorporate programmes such as Enterprise Risk Management andAnti-Bribery and Corruption.
Sustainability framework Whilst legal compliance necessarily underpins our sustainability strategy, the Groups sustainable development framework also incorporates numerous principles derived from the global sustainability agenda, including those formulated in the United Nations Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative and the International Council on Mining and Metals.
We seek to align and benchmark ourselves with national and international organisations that share a common vision of sustainability and pursuit of best practices.
These include: Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 83 1 2 3 4 Name Our role 2012 progress Certications All mine units participate voluntarily in the Safety Self-Management Programme, aimed at ensuring STPS Mexican Secretariat of Labour : compliance with safety regulations and improved performance.
We are helping key contractor Safety Self-Management companies to participate in the Programme.
All mine units participate voluntarily in the Clean Industry Programme, aimed at ensuring PROFEPA Mexican Environmental compliance with environmental regulations and improving performance.
We are helping key Authority : Clean Industry contractor companies to participate in the Programme.
All gold mining units participate voluntarily in the Cyanide Management Programme aimed at International Cyanide Management implementing best practices in cyanide management.
Institute All mine units and the Exploration Division participate in external audits aimed at certifying their ISO 14001 environmental management systems.
All mine units participate in the development of a health & safety management system suitable OHSAS 18001 forthird party audit.
The Chamber promotes sector agreements, lobbying processes and benchmarks CAMIMEX Mexican Mining Chamber for the Mexican mining sector.
Active member of the Executive Committee.
The Commission is part of the Mexican Business CESPEDES Sustainable Development Coordinating Council CCE and aims to coordinate the private sector stance on key issues such Studies Commission for the Mexican asa transition towards a green economy and greenhouse gas mitigation efforts in the country.
Private Sector Through this cluster, the Fresnillo business unit and other mining companies in Zacatecas state Mining Cluster for the State promote the development of economic, social and environmental best practices across the ofZacatecas miningsupply chain.
Partnerships The Cinega and Fresnillo business units work in partnership with the National Institute for Programme for Forestry and Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research INIFAP to reinforce their reforestation and Agriculture Technical Cooperation remediation programmes.
Participant in the FTSE 350 category through the disclosure of climate change risks and greenhouse Carbon Disclosure Project gases inventory.
The Group also participates in the Water Disclosure Project as of 2012.
Alliance with The Wild Foundation aimed at promoting biodiversity conservation in the WildCorp Mexicanprivate sector.
1 Minera Penmont works in partnership with the Ecology and Sustainable Development Sonoran Pronghorn Protection Commission of Sonora State CEDES to protect this endangered native species.
Programme Through this non-profit organisation, personnel from Fresnillo plc voluntarily donate funds to The United Way socialcauses.
Representation through CAMIMEX for benchmarks and best practices in the Mexican industrial Confederation of Industrial sector.
Recipient of the Ethics and Values Award for the fourth time.
Chambers CONCAMIN Awards Largest organisation in Mexico for corporate social responsibility.
Fresnillo plc has received CEMEFI Mexican Centre for annuallythe Socially Responsible Company ESR Award since 2008.
Philanthropy Fresnillo plc participates in the Mexico Greenhouse Gases Programme coordinated by the Mexican Mexico Greenhouse Gases Award Environmental Secretariat and CESPEDES to generate a national inventory for the private sector.
Second Level In2012 the Group obtained the second level through an external verication of its inventory.
Fresnillo and Cinega participated in this project from PROFEPA to promote environmental Environmental Leadership for efficiency in the supply chain.
Competitiveness Winner in the Excellence in Reporting in the FTSE 100 category.
PwC Building Public Trust Thayer Lindsley Award to Mr David Giles, VP Exploration, for the international discovery in mining.
Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada PDAC We also have partnerships with several academic institutions in Mexico, such as the National Autonomous University of Mexico UNAM, theNational Polytechnic Institute of Mexico IPN, the Autonomous University of Guanajuato and the Autonomous University of Zacatecas, aimedat attracting new talent, and promoting innovation and research in the mining sector.
1 Minera Penmont, or Penmont hereafter, refers to Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. a company jointly held by Fresnillo plc 56% interest and Newmont USA Limited 44%interest, that owns the Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena mine units.
84 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development Health Prevention, education and medical services Alert On Programme The lack of a preventive health culture in Mexico, as illustrated by the toimprove general health and prevent countrys ranking as number one in obesity, presents serious public occupational illnesses.
health challenges particularly in terms of chronic diseases and their impact on the workplace.
In September 2012 we launched the Alert On Programme to address the risk of employees and contractors with health conditions, particularly those working in on-site operational What we said we would do in 2012 roles.
The programme incorporates an early alert system to monitor Implement forward-looking indicators concerning occupational the main health factors that could affect exposed workers, focusing healthrisks on conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cancer, fatigue and substance abuse.
Enforce health guidelines for our key contractors Alert On incorporates activities such as outreach and monitoring, Install medical units in contractor companies with over 100 workers anti-doping and breathalyser tests and fatigue detection.
If a health risk is determined for a particular worker, management has the discretion to relocate or suspend the employee, within the context ofrespecting their dignity and condentiality.
The programme What we did in 2012 reached20% implementation in 2012.
A total of 11 persons were Dened preventive health indicators and requirements, including permanently relocated to less risky areas, mainly due to age-related thatall contractor companies with over 100 workers must have health conditions.
amedical doctor and a clinic on site: installed several medical units incontractor companies Occupational health Merged the Occupational Health group with the Safety group at every The primary health risks in our underground mines relate to mine unit to guarantee a preventive health culture within the operation emissionsand noise, whilst the use of heavy mobile equipment and immediately attend to any safety incident andheat stress are the most prevalent risks in open pit mines.
Ourprevention strategies for both include ongoing training and Launched the Alert On Programme, an early alert process for continuous supervision regarding the use of safety equipment, operational risks related to health problems aswellas regular outreach on health and hygiene.
Our occupational medicine programme conducts medical exams for new workers andprovides annual medical checkups for all employees, as well ashealth campaigns and the functional coordination of relocating What we plan to do in 2013 vulnerable workers.
Fully implement the Alert On Programme In 2012, we strengthened all Health units and incorporated health Consolidate the integration between health and safety units, andhygiene guidelines for contractors.
In line with our more rigorous withjointinspections guidelines, several key contractors installed medical clinics, including at Fresnillo, Saucito and Penmont.
We continued providing medical Continue promoting a preventive culture consultations and vaccinations to employees and their families, and to contractors.
Additionally, we launched the permanent Promoting Life health campaign to share preventive information on breast cancer, smoking, obesity and other health issues.
For the first time in 2012, theExploration division implemented a health campaign across allofces and projects.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 85 1 2 3 4 Performance indicator Comment 2012 2011 2010 Rate of permanent partial disabilities due to occupational risks Number of workers with a permanent partial Occupational risks now include both occupational 0.42 0.83 disability, as qualied by the Mexican Social Security illnesses and work accidents, whereas in 2011 only Institute IMSS, divided by the total number of illnesses were considered.
workers exposed to risk areas, multiplied by 100.
Rate of lost work days due to other illnesses Number of days lost due to non-occupational In 2011 all illness-related lost work days were 1.17 10.68 illnesses, divided by the total number of days, considered, whereas in 2012 only those dictated asregistered with IMSS.
byIMSS Investment in health Expenditures in infrastructure, programmes and Main investments are contributions to IMSS, US$9.6m US$7.8m US$6.6m payments to the Mexican Social Security Institute employee insurance and medical tests and equipment IMSS : excludes training.
Health performance indicators include only employees and union workers.
Therefore, Saucito is not included as it is operated by contractors.
86 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development Safety Eliminating dangerous workplace conditions and Safety Action Plan One of the most critical challenges we face and a key risk for the behaviours to ensure zero fatalities, and investing Group is safety.
Poor performance in 2011 led to the implementation in equipment, training and enforcement to of a rigorous Safety Action Plan that included continuous supervision strengthen safety performance.
from internal and external safety experts, and particular focus on drilling and mining processes to eliminate unsafe geological conditions.
These actions resulted in a 12% decrease in the overall number of accidents in 2012, with no fatalities caused by rock fall.
What we said wed do in 2012 Notwithstanding, an unacceptable six fatal accidents occurred in Continue implementing the Safety Action Plan to improve, enhance 2012, largely due to unsafe behaviour and breaches to our safety rules and embed our safety culture and systems at all levels, with full and procedures.
The considerable growth of the Companys compliance with our Zero Tolerance Rules for Safety operations, and more specically our reliance on contractors indicated a continued need to address the core problem.
Conclude the OHSAS 18001 certication process at Fresnillo: 90% advance at Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos: 80% at Cinega: and Based on the recommendations of safety specialists, we implemented initiate the process at Saucito the following measures in 2012: Obtain the second level in the Safety Self-Management Programme at L aunched the No More Accidents process see below Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos, and first level at the rest of the mines: I nitiated monthly reviews for the elimination of unsafe conditions register Noche Buena to the programme H ired an external expert on ventilation Met twice with the leadership of our main contractor companies, implemented a policy whereby all contractor companies with over What we did in 2012 25 workers must employ a safety advisor and register to the Safety Self-Management Programme Despite implementation of the Safety Action Plan, six fatalities occurred in the year: as a consequence, we further intensied efforts A pplied disciplinary measures to contractors who violated our with internal and external safety specialists and conducted extensive safety rules, from temporary suspension to contract rescission outreach with all employees, contractors and operational supervisors R eviewed risk maps of strategic operational areas and developed new mitigation procedures Cinega and the Herradura were reintegrated to the Safety SelfManagement programme: Herradura applied for the second level, I ncreased training in safety, mainly through a programme for butthe administrative procedure was delayed: Saucito and Cinega newlyhired workers and workshops for operational supervisors supported contractor companies to incorporate this programme C onvened two meetings of a special safety team comprised of Fresnillo was approved for OHSAS 18001 certication: Herradura theCEO, Vice Presidents, Corporate Managers, managers of mine advanced 85%: Soledad-Dipolos 80%: Cinega 85%: these advances units and projects, and safety superintendents.
reect a greater focus during the year on the Safety Self-Management Programme and the incorporation of contractor companies: similarly No More Accidents Saucito has not yet commenced the certication process In recognition of the role of leadership in promoting a culture of safety, the Executive Committee launched a Group-wide campaign called NoMore Accidents with a symbolic one-hour suspension of all work on 8 October 2012 to highlight Fresnillo plcs priority: Safety goes first What we plan to do in 2013 at all times.
Improve safety performance and meet our zero fatalities target The campaign included videos and in-person presentations from Continue working with key stakeholders, mainly contractors, theCompanys senior executives to reinforce the Group values topromote a safety culture ofTrust, Responsibility, Integrity, Loyalty and Safety: workshops andconferences: posters and photo exhibits: and other mass Maintain reviews by external experts communications that reached 7,000 people.
Follow-up activities Incorporate support personnel into prevention efforts havebeen organised on a monthly basis to maintain awareness, andwill continue into 2013.
In the three month period following Extend the No More Accidents process, which aims to enrich safety thelaunch of the No More Accidents campaign, accidents initiatives with clear and continuous leadership and awareness decreased52%.
Within the Safety Self-Management Programme, obtain the first level of compliance at Cinega, second advanced level at Penmont, andre-incorporate the programme at Fresnillo Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 87 1 2 3 4 For Fresnillo plc, there is nothing as important as human life.
Other safety programmes Our core processes and training programmes remained in place, including the Health and Hygiene Commission, Operational Discipline, TM STOP, Behavioural Change, Rock Mechanics, Hazardous Materials Management, First Aid and Defensive Driving.
We supported the Mexican Secretariat of Labour in implementing the Safety Vigilance forMines Programme and reinforced awareness within contractor companies through two meetings with residents and supervisors.
Octavio Alvdrez CEO 8 October 2012 Performance indicator Comment 2012 2011 2010 Fatalities 6 11 2 Unacceptable performance required reinforcement of the Safety Action Plan.
Accident rate 1.73 2.21 Number of disabling accidents that require absence from work for The decrease reects efforts derived 1.42 morethan three days, divided by the total of union and non-union from the Safety Action Plan.
The employees, as well as contractors, multiplied by 100. national average in Mexico, according to the Mexican Mining Chamber, is 2.8.
Lost work days rate 3.11 1.64 The number of days lost to disabling accidents divided by the total The decrease reects efforts derived 1.48 number of union and non-union employees, as well as contractors.
from the Safety Action Plan and fewer fatal accidents.
Investment in safety The amount reects investment in infrastructure and initiatives: The decrease reects shared US$4.6 US$5.2 US$4.3 trainingnot included.
responsibility with contractor million million million companies that acquired safety equipment by themselves.
Main investments are personal protection and emergency aid equipment Penmont Cinega & SoledadNoche Certication Fresnillo Saucito San Ramn Herradura Dipolos Buena OHSAS 18001 An international occupational health & safety Approved Not yet 85% 90% 90% Not yet management system specication.
implemented implemented Safety Self-Management Programme A voluntary programme of the Mexican On stand-by for Supporting 80% Supporting In process of In process of Secretariat ofLabour aimed at ensuring reinstatement 12 contractor 12contractor authorisation authorisation compliance with safety regulations.
first level first level Reinstated rstlevel 88 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development Environment Our main environmental challenges related to the intensive use of Limiting the environmental impact of our strategic natural resources, specically water and energy, and the operations throughout their lifecycle, minimising potential impact of our operations on local ecosystems, particularly inthis period of operational growth.
To address these challenges the use of non-renewable resources, and investing weutilise the best technology available and deploy environmental in conservation.
management systems from the earliest phases of exploration throughmine development, construction, operation and closure.
Two additional issues have emerged as critical within our industry What we said we would do in 2012 inrecent years, garnering greater public scrutiny and increased regulatory oversight: climate change and biodiversity.
Fresnillo plc Maintain zero environmental incidents haslong monitored and tracked greenhouse gas emissions as Secure environmental permits for the expansion of tailings dams participants in the Mexican GHG Programme, and in 2012 for the atSaucito and Cinega rsttime our GHG inventory was audited by an external third party, inadvance of UK regulations.
As high consumers of fossil fuels, Obtain Clean Industry certication and begin the ISO 14001 process webelieve mining companies must enhance energy efficiency atSaucito andreduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Obtain International Cyanide Management Code certication Conservation, too, has long been a core component of our atCinega and Soledad-Dipolos environmental strategy.
We plant over 100,000 trees each year, Register Noche Buena for the relevant environmental carefor endangered species and implement conservation efforts certicationprocesses suchas reforestation and ora and fauna relocation.
These efforts also support our community relations objectives.
In 2012 we again achieved our target performance of zero environmental incidents and fines: all periodic tests, such as tailing What we did in 2012 dams, ventilation, vibration, illumination, noise and others, complied Zero environmental incidents and existing certications maintained with national regulations, and we maintained our institutional Secured environmental permits secured for Saucito and Cinega programmes in reforestation, cleaning, recycling of strategic inputs and ecosystem restitution.
Saucito achieved a 61% advance in the Clean Industry process whilethe ISO 14001 process was delayed due to a focus on other To obtain environmental permits for exploration and expansion certications and the incorporation of contractor companies projects in 2012, we conducted a variety of compensatory measuressuch as ora and fauna relocation and remittance of fees Cinega achieved a 75% and Soledad-Dipolos a 85% advance in the toenvironmental authorities.
We built sanitary landll facilities at cyanide certication process Fresnillo and Herradura, a new area to confine hazardous residues Promoted environmental management systems and eco-efficient atNoche Buena, and designed a hazardous waste management practices within our key contractor companies planfor Saucito.
At Fresnillo and Cinega we expanded water treatment capacity.
Initial implementation of environmental management systems at Noche Buena: formal certication processes require one full year The following table outlines our 2012 performance in the five key areas ofoperations of our environmental management system.
It should be noted that in greenhouse gas emissions, gures vary signicantly from those Disclosed our veried greenhouse gases inventory through our reported in the 2011 Annual Report due to a change in methodology participation in the Mexico GHG Programme, in advance of new made during the third party verication process we voluntarily regulations in the UK submitted to for the first time this year.
In 2012 we participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the third time, and for the first time in the Water Disclosure Project.
In order What we plan to do in 2013 toincorporate environmental best practices along our value chain, wealso helped key contractor companies to pursue certication Maintain zero environmental incidents processes, with two obtaining ISO 14001 certication in the year, Continue promoting environmental practices within our value chain andtwo others the Environmental Compliance Certication.
Obtain Clean Industry certication at Saucito and Cyanide Code atCinega Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 89 1 2 3 4 Consumption efficiency projects generated savings Water Fresnillo and Saucito maintained zero fresh Fresh water Treated water Total water 3 3 3 waterconsumption.
million m million m million m 4 4.67 3 3 3.32 2 7.9 99 9 9 3 2011: 3.47 million m Energy Solar energy is now being used in some exploration Diesel Gasoline Total energy projects and employee housing.
million GJ 6 65.0% 1 1 1.6% % 6.5 5 Electricity LP gas 2011: 5.0 million GJ 3 32 2.5% 0 0 0.9% % Greenhouse gases emissions All emissions comply with regulatory limits.
An external CO2 emitted from CO2 emitted from auditor, ANCE, veried our GHG inventory for the first direct sources indirect sources 1 time in 2012.
We also calculated Scope 3 emissions, tonnes tonnes mainly derived from materials transportation 2012: 138,838 tons 23 36 6,18 8 84 3 34 46,134 2011: 198,117 2011: 388,906 Waste management Cinega and Fresnillo brought 32 contractor companies Herradura reused into PROFEPAs Environmental Leadership programme, litres of spent lubeoil which resulted in different recycling projects that are still in process.
96 64 4 4,26 6 69 2011: 830,466 Biodiversity The Sustainable Forest in Cinega added 159 hectares Nursery capacity Trees planted and now extends almost 1,000 hectares: ora and fauna plants donated restitution and reforestation efforts covered more than 5,100 hectares.
12 20,000 14 44 4,38 8 88 2011: 140,200 2011: 162,650 1 Prior to 2012, we included emissions from contractor companies, both direct Scope 1 and indirect Scope 2 : now they are incorporated as Scope 3 emissions.
In addition, wehad previously considered indirect emissions to include only those related to the electricity emissions factor from the Mexican Federal Electricity Agency: however, asanimportant part of our consumption comes from Termoelctrica Peoles, a generation plant fuelled by petroleum coke, this is now included in our GHG inventory andthuscontributing to the higher emissions factor in 2012.
90 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development Environment continued Performance indicator Comment 2012 2011 2010 Unit energy consumption Gigajoules per tonne of product Control over these indicators comes 0.122 0.138 0.124 from our energy and water efficiency policies Unit fresh water consumption Cubic metres per tonne of product 0.088 0.101 0.095 Unit greenhouse gas emission 0.014 0.0130.011 CO2 emissions per tonne of product Investments in environmental efforts Infrastructure, equipment and Main investments are related to waste US$4.4 US$3.0 US$2.6 programmes excluding training management, soil and ora restitution, million million million environmental monitoring tests and equipment maintenance Certication Exploration Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Penmont Division and San Herradura SoledadNoche Ramn Dipolos Buena ISO 14001 An international environmental management Certied Certied In process Certied Certied Certied In process system standard published by the International Organisation for Standardisation Clean Industry A voluntary programme of the Mexican N A Certied 61% Certied Certied Certied In process Environmental Authority aimed at ensuring compliance with environmental regulations International Cyanide Management Code A voluntary industry and audit-based N A N A N A 75% Certied 85% Signatory programme for the gold mining industry to promote responsible management cyanide used in gold mining Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 91 1 2 3 4 Community relations The foundation of Fresnillo plcs guidelines and standards for social Creating a fullling workplace for personnel and interaction is the Code of Conduct.
Every employee and contractor fostering sound relations with our communities receives this document each year.
As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, our Code of Conduct promotes absolute respect forhuman rights, including non-discrimination, gender equality, What we said we would do in 2012 respect for freedom of thought and association, respect for the Conduct the biannual employee satisfaction customs and cultures of indigenous communities, and a prohibition and community perception survey against child labour.
Launch the Community Relations System as a Any violation to our Code of Conduct may be anonymously tool to measure the social impact of our activities reportedby any stakeholder through the Fresnillo Plays Fair Programme, a whistle blowing line managed by an independent thirdparty.
Cases brought forth through this channel such as abuse, discrimination, sexual harassment, bullying and others are discussed What we did in 2012 within an Honour Commission.
The programme was strengthened The employee survey resulted in two business units being recognised thisyear through the incorporation of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption as Great Places to Work: SAFSA the corporate ofces, and Penmont Policy.
In 2012, five reports were received, all of which were investigated and settled.
We also have a hotline specically devoted The community perception survey resulted in a very positive opinion tosafety, Safe Fresnillo, where any worker at any level can report towards Fresnillo plc once again unsafe conditions or behaviours in the workplace.
We launched the Community Relations System and included results within our performance indicators What we plan to do in 2013 Enhance our recruitment, training and performance evaluationprogrammes Consolidate institutional projects in surrounding communities 92 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development Community relations continued Human resources Workforce overview The Groups personnel are the most critical factor for the successful Total employees execution of our business strategy.
We thus invest significant resources in the selection, recruitment, training and retention of our 2012 2011 people, and institute performance evaluations to ensure alignment with our strategy and compensation policies.
3,300 3,051 For union and non-union workers, we maintained fair labour agreements and competitive wages in 2012.
A 6.0% increase in wages was approved in the year 2011: 6.5% plus a 1.5% increase in fringe benets, the highest of all sectors in Mexico.
In total, wages and salaries were US$29.0 million 2011: US$25.1 million, excluding profit sharing, a 15.5% increase from the previous year.
Additionally, in isolated mines and projects, we provided basic services such as Employees 3,300 3,245 Contractors housing, medical services, education and transportation as well as 2011: 2,252 Contractors exible work programmes to ensure work-life balance for families.
To support new operations, we hired in 551 new employees in 2012 2011: 617 and 856 contractors 2011: 455.
We recognised 31 work teams for their culture of teamwork and innovation, many of which Unionised 79.3% included union workers and contractors.
Our gender diversication efforts included the appointment of a woman to the Board of Directors, and 67 women were hired within various business units.
Our long-term talent management efforts include the promotion of theearth sciences.
For nearly ten years we have recruited interns Executives at management level 2.4% whostudy mining, metallurgy, geology, topography and environmental engineering from prestigious Mexican universities such as the National Autonomous University of Mexico, the National Polytechnic Institute and local universities.
Many of these trainees are offered permanent employment by the Group.
In 2012, 38 students participated in the Female 8.5% 91.5% Male internship programme, and 14 were hired for permanent positions.
11.8% of all supervisors and managers are women Inaddition, we sponsored 21 students and 12 professionals through 2011: 10.4% our Engineers in Training programme.
Age years New hires 1825 18.0% 2645 66.2% 46 15.8% Tenure years 05 58.5% 610 15.3% 11 26.2% Employment changes New hires Promotions 551 928 Lay-offs Transfers 221 27 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 93 1 2 3 4 Human Resources Performance indicator Comment 2012 2011 2010 Professional development training Average hours person Training covers technical, 94 96 95 management and leadership skills HSECR Training Average hours person Primary focus on safety: the increase 50 41 27 reects pursue of the Safety Action Plan as a means to promote safe behaviours among workers Investment in training programmes The main programmes are technical US$1.8m US$1.7m US$1.2m and safety certication programmes, the Behavioural Change Programme and English language Turnover rate Number of union and non-union employees who left the Company The increase reects workers who 6.70 5.69 4.61 divided by the total number of employees decided to migrate from isolated mines Employee satisfaction survey Survey of union and non-union workers as well as contractors Conducted every two years by an 6.6 6.8 independent third party: a new provider in 2012 used somewhat different surveying methodology than in previous years: 88% of the workforce participated.
Two business units were recognised as Great Places to Work Labour relations Total number of days in which operations were compromised due All collective and contract negotiations 0 00 todisagreements with local unions and or contract negotiations were successfully conducted 94 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainability 4 Advance our sustainable development Community relations continued Community Centres: access to social and business activities Community relations programme highlights inpublic spaces, such as computer and language workshops, We believe the communities surrounding our operations must be seen sports, and crafts: 2,000 persons as strategic partners in our endeavours.
Thus each business unit United Way: 697 employees donated US$22,106 to various implements a community engagement programme focusing on our socialcauses direct inuence communities, which includes partnerships with government and non-profit organisations.
We focus on five strategic Specic 2012 initiatives by business unit include: issues: environmental culture, education, social welfare public health, Fresnillo: New chapel and sports facilities in the neighbouring social interaction and sports, social infrastructure, and the promotion community of Belea: preventive health programme in local school of non-mining workforce development.
Saucito: New water wells for the neighbouring villages of Saucito Land negotiations are based on the principle of free, prior and del Poleo and Valdecaas informed consent: respect for local cultures: and fair and open Penmont: A partnership with the Social Participation Programme agreements with local cooperative landowner groups ejidos.
toimprove public facilities, in particular the expansion of the Community Centre: visits to the Companys facilities for workers Social investments are determined through baselines studies families implemented in the early exploration phase, and monitored via perception surveys conducted every two years, with a formal system Cinega: New public square: neighbourhood electrication: new aimed at addressing particular requests from different stakeholders.
recycling containers: new water well: improved worker housing.
We also organise outreach efforts such as health, education, Many of these efforts were collaborations with local government environmental and cultural campaigns.
Economic impact In 2012, activities benefited 116,024 persons of all ages, and included programmes such as: One way we measure value creation is through our economic contribution at the local level.
This includes total wages and salaries, Sustainability Calendar: celebration of social and environmental payments to local contractors and suppliers, and payment of awareness days: 40,000 persons municipal and state taxes.
Employee profit sharing, known as PTU A Leer IBBY: recreational reading circles: more than 2,200 persons participacin fide los trabajadores en las utilidades and included Innovec: scientific education for children: 2,000 children inthetotal wages calculation, is an important mechanism that alignsthe interests of shareholders, management and personnel.
Proempleo: development of small local businesses and suppliers: Webelieve that profit sharing contributes to healthy labour relations.
60 entrepreneurs Communities Comment 2012 2011 2010 Community perception index Average perception of four components labour, environmental, Conducted every two years by an 81 86 institutional and social from three different sources household independent third party: the score surveys, anthropological observations and personal interviews again ranks as very positive with a slight decrease noted primarily because of fatalities Community relations performance index Weighting of performance from the five pillars of action and the Indicator added in 2012 through the 94.7 number of beneciaries Community Relations System Investments in community wellbeing Includes the five pillars of action Main investments relate to social US$3.1 US$8.7 US$6.1 infrastructure projects.
In 2011 we million million million made a one-time donation to the state of Zacatecas to promote economic development Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 95 1 2 3 4 Payments Local economic to Federal 6 contribution Direct jobs Indirect jobs Government 1 Business unit US$m average average US$m 1 2 Minera Fresnillo 156.9 903 705 74.9 Minera Saucito 38.0 61 867 99.6 3 Minera Penmont 343.0 1,502 873 80.0 4 Minera Mexicana La Cinega 75.8 453 452 18.4 Exploraciones Parrea 102.5 139 467 8.3 Minera Bermejal 55.0 N A N A 30.1 Minera Juanicipio 0.8 N A N A 0.0 5 Others SAFSA, Juanicipio, Fresnillo plc, Torres 17.9 93 0 60.7 Total 789.9 3,151 3,364 372.0 1 Includes salary, wages and benets such as employer matched savings, paid time off, food coupons and subsidised cafeteria food, scholarship aid and annual bonuses, among others, payment to local suppliers, and local vehicle, payroll and property taxes.
2 Includes US$29.5 million of employee profit sharing.
3 Includes US$28.9 million of employee profit sharing.
4 Includes US$4.1 million of employee profit sharing.
5 Includes US$0.8 million of employee profit sharing.
6 Includes federal tax payables, federal social security IMSS and worker housing INFONAVIT payments, water rights and mining concessions.
Communication on Progress Chart United Nations Global Compact Pages Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, 1.
Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
42-43, 84-87, 91-95, 142, 131 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 3.
Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.
91-95 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.
Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
29, 31, 42-43, 54 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.
10, 48-49, 54, 83, 88-90 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
32, 88-90 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
