Our People We are creating high-calibre teams dedicated toevery aspect of our business.
As a company rooted in science but built around people, we areable to deliver on our strategy and maintain ourleading market position around the world.
OUR PEOPLE Our values, developed by our people, demonstrate how unique our people are.
STRIVING FOR EXCELLENCE A high performance culture starts at the top.
In the last year, we have focused on developing a compelling vision, based on values that capture the spirit of the business.
These delineate a clear strategy, in which every one of the 2,400 staff can see the part that he or she plays.
All of this has created a true global team.
This high performance culture, dedicated to innovation and customer service, is selfperpetuating.
It attracts, rewards and retains DEVELOPING AND RECRUITING TALENT teams who delight in creating products that Genus is committed to recognising, exceed customer expectations and delivering developing and recruiting new talent across profitable and sustainable growth.
This is strengthening our teams and providing the high levels of support PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT INPEOPLE and innovation that our customers have come to expect.
A refreshed and consistent approach to performance management is uniting the Our focus in 2012 has been on establishing an top500 managers, underpinned with a new enhanced Group HR function, with a remit to Our focus in 2012 has online resource.
The approach focuses on specically focus on developing and recruiting metrics that measure customer loyalty, been on establishing the talent to support the growth envisaged in peopledevelopment, product and service an enhanced Group the strategy.
To achieve this we recruited improvements and financial performance.
Catherine Glickman, who became Group HR Wetimed its launch in July, so we can set Director in January.
From our own talent pool highquality objectives for the financial year CATHERINE GLICKMAN we appointed Ricardo Campos to head up ahead.
GELT has set the example, with their GROUP HUMAN Genus ABS, drawing on his vast experience objectives published to the business, and RESOURCES DIRECTOR inthe cattle industry and knowledge of Latin each of the 500 will now set their objectives America.
We also promoted Dr Denny Funk, based on the cascade.
aworld-class geneticist, to serve as Head ofResearch & Development.
We have Work on behaviours and two core strengthened the Group with high quality competencies key account management recruits into our PIC product development and technical service, together with talent teams and key account teams, as well as into development, will be a major focus in 2013. our developing businesses in China and India.
KEEPING IN CONTACT DEVELOPING THE PIONEERS OF THE FUTURE In January 2012 we launched a new Group intranet site Helix, our internal communications Creating the environment in which innovation tool.
Named by Genus employees, Helix is isrecognised and rewarded is integral to our already succeeding in communicating Group future success as the pioneer of animal genetic strategy, spreading best practice and updating improvement.
Research in the last year has our people on business progress.
In addition shown that personal development and growth toserving as central location for storing key are very important to staff that value learning documents, training sessions and annual and are highly qualied.
Genus University, our conference presentations, Helix supports the online training and development centre, is one team principle that is helping to shape becoming increasingly important in training the ourfuture.
current and future staff throughout the Group.
We know that it helps to retain, motivate and Helix is increasingly seen as the source of develop staff at every level.
Last year, 1,378 of information on Genus, and is becoming a key our people benefited from Genus University tool to network knowledge around the Group.
training, taking a total of over 4,000 courses.
34 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW Seizing the Opportunity Creating the environment in which innovation is recognised and rewarded is integral to our future success as the pioneer of animal genetic improvement.
To bring life and immediacy leaders to shape the future Conference feedback to our new vision, values of the Company.
In addition confirms that Genus andstrategy, Genus to an agenda that focused leadersunderstand and are broughttogether the top60 on strategic alignment, committed to delivering the managers for theGroups marketplace orientation and strategy in their businesses.
first Global Leadership the importance of people They recognise that Conference in June 2012. leadership, the conference execution will be key in The theme was seizing the provided a new level of realising Genus potential.
opportunity and the venue support for the Genus Participants are now was, appropriately, one of our in-country team.
It also sharingand cascading most exciting markets: China.
enabled participants to themessages to their develop a deeper teams, aligning every part The three-day meeting understanding of local ofthe business behind outside Beijing provided customer needs.
anopportunity for Genus The curriculum is very broad, including customer-focused genomics, cross-breeding PIC 50th Birthday management systems, fertility fundamentals, one-to-one customer services success, ` Founded in 1962 at the White Hart pub communication across cultures and change inWallingford, UK, PIC has grown from management for employees.
asmall group of pig farmers to an international leader in porcine genetics.
Other programmes are also progressing, with ` Through the decades, PIC has worked emphasis on graduates in Genus Asia.
In the diligently to bring the advantages of Philippines, for example, we launched an superior swine health, genetics and enhanced six-month management training production efficiency to countries module in September 2011.
It is helping to around the globe.
equip participants with swine production ` With our 50 years of experience in pig knowledge and skills, update them on best improvement, PIC is ready, willing and practice and prepare them for leadership roles.
able to help pork producers everywhere Based on the success of this endeavour, we make the most of their operations.
have now launched a specially adapted version of the course in China, with nine graduates with higher degrees as the rstparticipants.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Genus operates an active policy of Genus does essential work, advancing the frontiers environmental compliance.
It is equally essential that we work assessing environmental risks associated responsibly, wherever we do business.
withexisting and new facilities and establishing controls to ensure that any risksremain at an acceptable level.
Employees at our facilities receive a high levelof training in environmental compliance matters.
Comprehensive environmental protocols are in operation atourfacilities thatare subject to independentchecks.
SUSTAINABILITY IN WORLD AGRICULTURE Genus plays a key role in the worlds OUR EMPLOYEES agricultural economy.
Our unique position in Genus places considerable value on the supply of superior natural animal genetics employee involvement and commitment.
enables farmers and food producers on six Ourstaff play a vital role in building a continents to ensure the supply of quality sustainable business and their skills, qualities products with increasing output at improved and well-being underpin the Companys production efficiencies.
Details of the Genus approach to its world population and decreasing resources employees can be found in the Our People available for food production, Genus meets a section of this report on pages 34 to 35. social and economic need in the efficient production of quality foods.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Genus is committed to providing safe working In doing so, we are committed to the environments wherever we operate.
We also higheststandards of corporate and individual proactively monitor compliance with local behaviour.
This involves careful thought about regulations.
This commitment is supported by a the economic, social and environmental comprehensive training regime for the Groups impacts of the Groups activities, wherever employees.
Genus has developed best practice Genus operates.
By acting with the highest farm and animal handling protocols that we standards of business conduct, Genus earns deploy at all farm locations.
These deal with the the trust of customers, shareholders, potential dangers of working with livestock and colleagues, suppliers, regulators and the operating equipment and the provision of a safe communities in which we operate.
these standards is vital to the continued success and development of the Group.
The monitoring and reporting on the Groups We are committed to All companies in the Genus Group follow health and safety performance are an integral procedures that comply with local laws and the highest standards part of the Groups operations and key to the regulations.
In many cases, our procedures Groups risk management programme.
of corporate and and practices exceed local requirements.
TheGenus Board has overall responsibility for Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy corporate responsibility, regularly assessing workplace for our people requires effective IAN FARRELLY the needs of Genus stakeholders and management.
Under the supervision of the GROUP COMPANY delegating day-to-day management of Global Health & Safety officer and regional SECRETARY & GENERAL corporate responsibility issues to GELT in COUNSEL health and safety teams, Genus operates a conjunction with regional management.
proactive network of health and safety personnel in our global facilities that share The Genus approach to corporate knowledge and experience with the aim of responsibility covers the following key areas: cross-fertilising best practice and ensuring the environment, our employees, health and consistently high standards of safety across safety, our stakeholder relationships and our the Group.
The Global Health & Safety officer community.
The Genus principles of corporate is responsible for monitoring and reporting responsibility apply to all our employees and adherence by the Company to the Groups set the minimum standard for their behaviour.
health and safety protocols and global health and safety staff regularly inspectthe THE ENVIRONMENT Companys sites.
Concern for the environment is an essential part of our business operations.
Therefore weminimise environmental risk by effectively managing the Groups activities.
Genus is committed to conducting business in ways thatare sensitive to the environmental needs ofthe communities in which we operate.
Our locations integrate environmental management into their operational systems and procedures.
Monitoring and reporting on environmental performance is an integral part of the Groups operations and a key element of the Groups risk management programme.
36 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW GOOD CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Nourishing the world Animal welfare Between 1950 and 2012, the worlds Our animals are our business.
Genus is population grew from 2.6 billion to over committed to providing the highest level of 7billion, 82% of whom live in developing care and treatment for our herds, which rely economies.
More people will accelerate the on us for a safe and comfortable environment.
growth of urbanisation to encompass 70% Therefore, we make certain that Genus ofthe population.
Increasing demand for employees responsible for animal handling high-quality food, coupled with nite land, areappropriately trained and qualied.
Our water and energy resources, is forcing facilities are designed and are maintained to farmers to seek new ways of improving their ensure best practice in animal husbandry.
Genus plays an increasingly Fullyqualied inspectors provide regular health important social and economic role in this assessments.
All of this is in line with the crowded new world, enabling our global Genus Animal Welfare Code of Conduct.
customers to produce quality foods efficiently and to meet the increasing demands of sustainable agriculture.
Genus has developed best practice farm OUR STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Using a recently introduced global Health CUSTOMERS and animal handling &Safety Management System, the Group Genus aims to provide products and protocols that we hasbeen able to track, monitor and evaluate servicesof the highest quality and technical healthand safety incidences and trends deploy at all farm standards appropriate to our customers worldwide and to communicate learnings locations.
At all times, we take all fromany incidences at a particular location reasonable steps to ensure the safety and toall facilities via the global health and safety quality of the products and services that network.
Adopting an increasingly standardised Genusprovides, including compliance with approach to health and safety management allapplicable regulatory requirements.
has meant the Groups total recordable case incidence rate has decreased by 1.5 cases to SUPPLIERS 0.65 cases per 100 full-time workers in the Genus is committed to working with suppliers 2012 financial year as compared to the 2011 in mutually beneficial ways, and, so far as is financial year and a 4%reduction in the practicable, requires that suppliers and number of incidents in the year compared contractors act in accordance with Genus tothe prior year.
OUR COMMUNITY As a responsible member of the communities in which we operate, Genus actively encourages the Groups operating companies to engage positively with the local community in theirareas.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 37 Board of Directors Top row, left to right: Bob Lawson John Worby Mike Buzzacott Ian Farrelly Bottom row, left to right: Karim Bitar Nigel Turner Professor Barry Furr BOB LAWSON 67 JOHN WORBY 61 NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Appointed to the Board: November 2010 Appointed to the Board: September 2004 Experience: Bob Lawson was appointed Experience: John Worby joined the Board Chairman of theBoard and the Nomination inSeptember 2004 and was Chairman of the Committee inNovember 2010.
He is NonAuditCommittee until he became Group Finance Executive Chairman of Barratt Developments Director in February 2009.
Heisalso a Director of The Federation of Director of Cranswick plc and Smiths News plc, Groundwork Trusts.
His career has spanned and was previously Deputy Chairman and several UK and continental groups including, ten Finance Director of Uniq plc formerly Unigate plc, years as Chief Executive of Electrocomponents having been Finance Director of Wincanton Ltd. plcleading its successful expansion into new He is a member of the Financial Reporting international markets, and three years as ReviewPanel.
ManagingDirector of Vitec Group plc.
NIGEL TURNER 63 Committee memberships: Chairman of the SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Nomination Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
Appointed to the Board: January 2008 Experience: Nigel Turner joined the Board KARIM BITAR 47 inJanuary 2008 and is Chairman of the CHIEF EXECUTIVE Remuneration Committee.
He was the Chairman Appointed to the Board: September 2011 of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 to Experience: Karim Bitar joined the Board in November 2007.
He is currently a Non-Executive September 2011.
He worked for over 15 years Director of Croda plc.
Previously he was Vice with Eli Lilly and Company and was President of Chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale and Lilly Europe, Canada and Australia before joining Investment Bank in which he had specic Genus.
An ex-McKinsey & Company consultant, responsibility for the Global Corporate Finance who worked across Asia and in Europe, he has and Equity businesses.
He joined the Dutch also held management roles at Johnson & bank in 2000 from Lazard, where he was a Johnson and the Dow ChemicalCompany.
partner for 15 years and also sat on its Supervisory Board.
Committee memberships: Member of the Nomination Committee.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
38 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MIKE BUZZACOTT 64 IAN FARRELLY 43 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY & GENERAL COUNSEL Appointed to the Board: May 2009 Appointed: June 2006 Experience: Mike Buzzacott is a qualied Experience: Ian Farrelly is a solicitor and joined accountant.
He joined the Board in May 2009 Genus in June 2006 from Microgen plc where he and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was Group General Counsel.
Previously he was spent 34 years at BP prior to his retirement in Group Solicitor & Company Secretary of Diagonal 2004, holding a number of international roles plc and Solicitor to Hays plc.
including Finance & Control Director Asia Pacic, CFO BP Nutrition and Group Vice President Petrochemicals.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Scapa Plc.
He retired as a NonExecutive Director of Croda plc in August 2011 and was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Rexam plc and Chairman of Biofuels plc.
Committee memberships: Chairman of theAudit Committee and member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
PROFESSOR BARRY FURR 68 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed to the Board: December 2006 Experience: Professor Furr retired as Chief Scientist and Head of Project Evaluation for AstraZeneca plc in 2005 after 34 years of service.
He is a Non-Executive Director of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and the American Pharmaceutical company GTx Inc.
He was awarded an OBE in 2000 for his services to cancer drug discovery.
He joined the Board in December 2006 and acts as scientific Advisor toGenus Research & Development Portfolio Management Team, which replaced the Science Committee with effect from 1 July 2012.
He is the author of more than 160 papers on reproductive endocrinology and antihormones.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 39 Genus Executive Leadership Team Following the appointment of Karim Bitar in September 2011, Left to right: Ian Farrelly members of the Genus Executive Leadership Team GELT have been Dr Denny Funk specially chosen for their individual and collective strengths, expertise Jerry Thompson John Worby and experience.
GELT exists tohelp deliver the Genus strategy and Karim Bitar Catherine Glickman reinforce the Company values that underpin our business.
Ricardo Campos Bill Christianson GELT RESPONSIBILITIES ` people promoting and ensuring talent GELTs first task was to determine the management and people development Companys vision and values, described in throughout the organisation: and ` theCompany Overview.
resources including corporate procurement and investments.
An ongoing role is to ensure organisational DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE alignment, engagement and efficient execution The new structure based on business units throughout the Group.
Inevitably, this also rather than the previous geographical split, involves making crucial personnel, operational with focus on our developing markets in Asia, and commercial decisions.
Equally important is provides for the best delivery of the following GELTs stewardship of the Genus reputation.
key elements: ` insight-driven research: More widely, GELT is ensuring that Genus ` strategic marketing: delivers on several fronts: ` ` strong product development: corporate strategy primary responsibility ` sales and technical services: for developing and implementing the ` optimised supply chain: and Companys strategy alongside operational ` developing markets.
excellence, through embedding and strengthening key capabilities: ` Members of GELT are as follows: operations management driving organisational profits and results: ensuring KARIM BITAR core processes are reliable and efficient: CHIEF EXECUTIVE annually reviewing R & D plans: managing JOHN WORBY risk, including risk mitigation: managing the GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Genus balanced scorecard, including IAN FARRELLY customer equity metrics: GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY & GENERAL COUNSEL See pages 38 to 39 for Karims, Johns and Iansbiographies.
40 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DR DENNY FUNK RICARDO CAMPOS CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, GENUS ABS Denny has a strong genetics background, Ricardo has degrees in Business withaPhD in animal breeding from Iowa State Administration, Agribusiness Administration University.
He joined Genus in 1995 and prior to and Management from the SNA Agribusiness his role as Chief scientific officer, held various School, Santiago, Chile.
Having joined Genus positions in research, product development and in 2004 from an ABS distributor that was production.
Prior to joining Genus, he was an purchased by the Group, he was instrumental Associate Professor with tenure at the University in establishing ABS businesses in Chile, of Wisconsin, Madison for seven years following Argentina, Uruguay and Colombia all of five years with the US Holstein Association.
which enabled the Latin America business toachieve double-digit growth.
Subsequent JERRY THOMPSON roles included leadership of the genetic CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, GENUS ASIA business in the Caribbean and Marketing Jerry graduated with a BSc Hons in Agriculture Specialist for non-genetic products and from Seale Hayne College, Devon and has Genus Latin America Managing Director.
worked for PIC and subsequently Genus for Ricardo was appointed to his present almost 20 years.
After two years in the UK positionon 1 July 2012. business he moved to Eastern Europe where he has held a number of roles including Key CATHERINE GLICKMAN Account Manager in Siberia, Managing Director GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR for PIC Romania and for the Central and Eastern Catherine joined Genus in January 2012 in the European PIC business.
In 2008, Jerry moved newly created role of Group HR Director.
For to the position of Regional Director for PIC the previous 20 years, she worked for Tesco Europe.
He became Regional Director for the plc in a variety of positions.
For the last four Russia and Asia Pacic Region based in years she was Group HR Director, where she Shanghai in 2010 before being appointed into focused on talent development, succession his current role on 1 July 2012. and leadership development.
She held HR Director roles supporting the international BILL CHRISTIANSON CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, GENUS PIC rollout of Tesco into Asia, Central Europe and the States, and led HR for the UK Stores Bill has doctorates in Veterinary Medicine and during a period of major expansion.
Prior to inPhilosophy from the University of Minnesota.
Tesco, she worked in HR for Somereld plc He joined Genus in 1993.
Before his current and Boots plc.
Catherine holds a degree in appointment in July of this year, he held various English Language and Literature from Durham operational roles within Genus, including serving University and is a member of the Institute of as General Manager of the PIC North America Personnel and Development.
business in 2007 and as Chief Operating officer of the Americas from March 2010.
