f o G o l t o p b r i a n l t i y C m g r o p o o n r i l t o r i o v e n n e p u m h u o e c S u n e s t t. 3Q Sustainability report Creating long-term sustainable value GKNs Business Model p13 supports our objective of creating sustainable value for our stakeholders.
At the core of this model are six elements that drive everything we do: our Values, superior technology, outstanding employees, global footprint, continuous improvement and corporate responsibility.
Shareholder return Long-term shareholder value is provided in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends.
Our Values The main principles of the GKN Code are aligned with our Values and, together with the associated policies, they inform the behaviours expected of all GKN people.
The Code is encapsulated into 12 promises, six from GKN to its employees and six from employees to GKN: Promises from GKN to employees Promises from employees to GKN We will support you through investment and I share GKNs commitment to build a high training so we can build a high performance performing business with a strong customer business by delivering superb customer service.
I show that commitment through my work.
We will help you develop your full potential I always respect the rights of other team and we will not tolerate any discrimination.
We will care for you by providing a safe working I do not put other team members at risk of injury environment.
and will counsel anyone I see working unsafely.
We will do what we can to minimise our impact I believe in honest and proper conduct at all on the environment.
We are all part of a wider society and we will I know I am free to report behaviour which is contribute positively to the communities of wrong and I will do so.
I will help protect the environment and support If you have a problem we will listen in local communities.
r e C s g s o p n e r o i p e n d y o s n i r o a b a l i t t l p s i e t t m y u e O V a O l u u r e s GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
3R Consistent with the six promises to employees, GKN strives to create and maintain a working environment that stimulates both personal and organisational growth.
We believe that the greater the employee engagement, the greater the contribution of employees towards attaining the business goals.
This is important both when things are going well and when there are challenges.
As an important predictor of future success, engagement is a leadership priority.
To support this, GKNs global leadership development programmes focus on the importance of individual relationships between leaders and their teams, the communication of a sense of the future, as well as the need for efficient execution.
A core aspect of GKNs commitment to employee engagement is its drive to bring the A meeting designed to reinforce GKN Values in Mexico Company values to life for everyone.
During 2011 and 2012, a global programme of workshops in 2012. gave participants the opportunity to explore the GKN Values and what each one means to them.
During the last two years, values workshops have involved around 9,000 employees across GKN.
The GKN Values together with Group strategy are also cascaded through the organisation via the Chief Executives Council, which comprises the 25 most senior executives across the Group.
This group meets quarterly and is a key body when it comes to the communication of Group strategy through the organisation.
A variety of communication channels, with an emphasis on face-to-face communication, is used to help employees contribute their ideas and understand the context for decision-making in GKN.
For a number of years GKN has measured its performance on employee engagement using a combination of a biennial Global Employee Survey and the monthly Positive Climate Index PCI, which is a mini survey tool.
The PCI uses a sub-set of questions from the Global Employee Survey: results are gathered immediately and then discussed by the participants during group sessions.
The sessions are facilitated by a business leader and ownership of the process, its benefits and its opportunities reside with the business unit.
Almost 1,000 PCI sessions were held during 2012 and aggregated data indicates progress on engagement between 2011 and 2012, building on previous year-on-year improvements.
Where relevant, we reinforce the GKN Values with specific training.
The GKN anti-bribery and corruption ABC training is an example.
The purpose of the training is to increase awareness and understanding of the relevant GKN compliance requirements and the Groups commitment to their effective application.
Training takes two forms: face-to-face training for management teams and senior market-facing employees: and a bespoke online course delivered via GKN Academy see page 41 for a wider population of employees.
If you have a problem we will listen in confidence.
Supporting UK employee engagement: During 2012, GKN made a public commitment The GKN Code states that we will treat all our employees fairly, ensuring there is no to the UK Government-sponsored Engage discrimination.
In line with global best practice, GKNs Employee Disclosure Policy for Success, which is championed by a encourages individuals to report and discuss problems on a confidential basis, as well as national voluntary task force and led by UK providing a confidential grievance process.
GKN offers a 24 hour, international whistleblowing businesses.
It aims to raise awareness of the hotline run by an external and independent third party ensuring that employees can make benefits of employee engagement and to on an anonymous basis if preferred confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety develop and deploy effective practice.
The policy requires that employees are able to make any such disclosures Stein, GKN Chief Executive, joined other UK without fear of recrimination.
Any matters reported are investigated and, where appropriate, business leaders as a key sponsor: Doug escalated to the Audit Committee.
Initial feedback is given to the relevant employee within McIldowie, GKN Group HR Director, is a 14 days.
member of the task force: and a senior GKN HR manager was seconded to the staff team to help raise awareness of employee engagement in the UK.
40 Sustainability report Superior technology Technology differentiation is a priority for the Group.
The global trends driving technology development across the divisions are broadly similar: the low-carbon and fuel efficiency agenda, electrification, urbanisation, shortages of key resources, population growth and changes in food consumption.
All divisions deploy technology to help customers meet these challenges.
The benefits of GKN technology development is in evidence throughout this report, whether it is leadership in composite structures, designed for powder metallurgy components, the latest in energysaving driveline systems or electromagnetic components see pages 18-19.
GKN has appointed 13 of its most outstanding engineers The Group Technology Strategy Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, brings together the key to become Fellows of Engineering.
The Fellowship scheme technologists and drives the development and deployment of technology plans.
recognises the contributions these individuals have made and creates technology ambassadors who will work to To raise further the status of engineers within the Group, the GKN Engineering Fellowship foster innovation.
Scheme was created late in 2012.
Initially involving 13 of the Groups most experienced and highly-qualified individuals from across all four divisions, Fellows have a wide variety of expertise and will work together to provide technical leadership and advice across the Group to promote engineering best practice and knowledge sharing.
They will receive GKNs full commitment to enable them to remain at the forefront of their areas of expertise, developing new ideas and supporting the GKN engineers of tomorrow.
Outstanding employees We will help you to develop your full potential and we will not tolerate any discrimination.
GKN has approximately 48,000 employees in subsidiaries and joint ventures.
From highly-qualified engineers to the most recently recruited apprentices, the success of GKNs strategy to deliver shareholder value depends on ensuring that it creates the conditions for a high-performance culture.
That means it must be an employer of choice with motivated, well trained employees and outstanding leaders.
Employer of choice GKN seeks to recruit talented individuals with the skills and passion to become leaders of the future.
In 2012, GKN recruited over 200 graduates worldwide, providing opportunities to develop professional technical and leadership career paths.
These are sought after posts that require high quality candidates.
GKN is using its strength as a Group to enhance recruitment.
A cross-divisional group focused on a few major engineering universities to recruit graduates in a unified manner.
The first university chosen as a partner was Pennsylvania State University Penn State, which is strong in mechanical, aerospace and agricultural engineering.
A concerted programme of communication events allowed GKN to raise the Groups profile with students, offering a single entry into any one of the GKN divisions.
This created considerable interest GKN Chinas student sponsorship programme supports from potential employees and has already yielded commitments from high potential underprivileged students at six engineering universities in China.
Each year, GKN China sponsors approximately candidates.
Based on the success of the Penn State experience, GKN plans to embark on 60 engineering students providing financial support for similar partnerships in Europe and Asia.
These students are also invited to participate in internships at GKN plants during their vacations.
Outreach programmes also help GKN find excellent people.
At its Auburn Hills, Michigan facility, GKN Driveline offers an engineering intern programme to help develop students from local universities.
There are around 20 internship students at any one time and the programme runs for up to five years.
Each student has a mentor and receives wide experience within the business.
Many such interns have gone on to become permanent GKN employees and developed long term careers with the Group.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
41 GKN is also expanding its recruitment of apprentices and currently has nearly 1,000 globally.
Apprentices receive world-class training and support to ensure they achieve their full potential.
There is also the opportunity to study for and complete degrees.
For example in the UK, working in close partnership with the City of Bristol College, students start in the college, learning key engineering skills, then move onto day-release programmes while working on site.
Each student spends time in targeted areas as members of the engineering, manufacturing and design teams.
There are currently approximately 60 students on this programme, of which nearly half joined during 2012.
Employee turnover is a measure of success in retaining our people and achieving our goal of being an employer of choice.
In 2012, voluntary employee turnover, which excludes compulsory redundancies and terminations, was 3.84% 2011: 3.97%.
At the GKN Aerospace Filton and Western Approach sites in the UK, apprenticeship schemes combine learning practical skills with classroom studies, preparing apprentices for a future career at the heart of aerospace innovation.
Well trained employees A cornerstone of the GKN Values is support for all employees through training.
In 2012, 88% of employees had annual performance and development discussions with their functional leader.
Development processes and frameworks chart employees progress through managerial and Employees by business technical careers, with focused assessment and training to provide the right support to achieve success.
GKN completes an annual organisation-wide planning process to ensure it, is continually developing the people and capabilities required to deliver the business plan.
GKN Land Systems Over 12,000 employees participated in this process.
One result of this is that over 70% of managerial level roles are filled by internal candidates.
, GKN Driveline To help deliver training support, the GKN Academy offers a library of 700 online courses and !
!, training available to employees in ten languages.
Introduced in 2010, the past year has seen GKN Aerospace a significant expansion of courses available to GKN people, enabling most employees worldwide to access development options from their workplace or home.
In its first full year, around 12,000 courses were completed.
, Other Businesses, GKN Powder Metallurgy Outstanding leaders Effective leadership is at the heart of delivering success and GKN has an integrated suite of leadership development programmes.
The aim is to help equip leaders at all levels to lead Total 4P, R00 and grow their businesses and their teams.
The programmes are also developing a shared Including subsidiaries and joint ventures leadership culture throughout the Group.
Global footprint Employees by region GKN has factories, service centres and offices in over 30 countries on five continents.
Across the Group, GKN people collectively speak at least 26 languages.
, $ This strong global presence positions the business to serve an international customer base UK Rest of World and creates a platform to access fast-growing markets see pages 16-17.
Global presence is also a key enabler to developing new technologies in partnership with customers wherever they are across the world.
"!, "" GKNs global culture enables each division to build and sustain close relationships with Europe excluding UK market-leading customers and it helps optimise positions in major supply chains."
Manufacturing in close proximity to customers means products have to be transported #, shorter distances, helping the Group reduce its impact on the environment see page 43 Americas whilst supporting customers just-in-time manufacturing.
Total 4P, R00 Including subsidiaries and joint ventures Business review.
42 Sustainability report Continuous improvement We will support you through investment and training so we can build a high performance business by delivering superb customer service.
Continuous improvement in GKN is founded on global deployment of the Lean Enterprise model.
This continued during 2012, building on 10 years of roll-out.
At the end of 2012, approximately 60% of the Groups turnover was generated through structured Lean value streams.
This continues to provide improved safety and quality performance benefits, increased efficiency, lead time and inventory reduction and enhanced employee alignment US-based GKN Rockford, part of GKN Land Systems, has with business objectives.
redrawn its Sales, Inventory, and Operations Planning GKN supports Lean with an extensive Group programme of training, from leadership to shop processes SIOP using internal training and help from the University of Wisconsin.
As a result, customers have seen floor, which commenced in 2003.
Over 1,000 leaders have graduated from training a substantially improved performance in quality and programmes including nearly 200 people during 2012, which include hands-on delivery, and inventory has been cut.
Now the Rockford implementation of Lean principles.
team is sharing its experiences with GKN colleagues elsewhere in the world.
The application of the Lean Enterprise model creates a culture in which all employees can see the flow of value to their customer, understand their role in that flow and participate in improving process and efficiency.
For GKN, the flow of value extends from raw material suppliers, through GKNs operations, and onward to the customer locations.
By mapping and improving value streams, operations can be designed, sized and managed to meet customer demand with the most efficient use of resources.
Lean Enterprise applies not just to manufacturing operations but also to business processes, such as supply chain planning, that are increasingly important in fast-paced commercial Enhancing customer experience: environments.
Applying Lean principles helps ensure that demand planning from customers Continuous improvement activities, is quickly and accurately transferred to GKNs value stream organisation.
a key element of the Lean Enterprise model, focus on enhancing the customer The foundation of GKNs Lean Enterprise system is Employee Involvement EI allowing all experience.
A particularly strong example employees to continuously improve their work environment and processes.
GKNs EI system in 2012 is the mobilisation by GKN Land includes alignment of objectives, clear display of targets and performance in the workplace Systems to support key global customers and a robust method of reviewing progress.
This structured approach ensures that leaders in the wake of an earthquake in northern regularly engage with employees about their work, providing opportunities for recognition, Italy that extensively damaged the coaching, and constructive feedback.
operations of a major competitor to its Policy Deployment is a continuous improvement planning tool used in Lean processes.
It ensures that employees across GKN align their efforts to Group objectives which are The elimination of a major supplier cascaded to the operating divisions, then to business units and regions, and finally to each could have seriously impacted customers location and individual.
This helps establish a clear purpose, specific targets and in the agricultural machinery sector measurable results, creating a solid platform for sustainable growth and a culture of were it not for the actions of GKN Land continuous improvement.
To replace Lean is central to enhancing sustainability as it helps cut waste, reduce energy use, minimise the lost production required a major raw material use and streamline all processes.
Continuous improvement is also an important mobilisation that, in one GKN plant mechanism in supporting improvements in health, safety and environmental performance alone, involved 56 new designs and which the following section addresses.
four new tools needing 900t of additional steel.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Energy consumption per unit of production.
43 kWh tonne, , , , ,  Corporate responsibility  For GKN, corporate responsibility is the integration of social and environmental concerns with  business operations.
It means not only fulfilling legal expectations, but also going beyond Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems compliance and investing in the environment, health and safety, and the communities in which we operate.
   CO emissions per unit of production 2 Environment kg tonne,  We will do what we can to minimise our impact on the environment.
  GKNs main impacts on the environment are energy use and associated CO emissions, 2  waste generation and recycling, and water consumption.
Environmental performance in 2012 was mixed, with GKN Aerospace and GKN Powder Metallurgy performing strongly, while GKN  Land Systems and GKN Driveline improved in some measures but worsened slightly in others.
 Driveline Powder Aerospace Land The Group is committed to continuous improvement in all these areas of environmental Metallurgy Systems performance and continues to take actions to address each of them.
   Across the Group 89% of manufacturing locations are certified to the ISO14001 environmental management system and the remainder are in the process of obtaining certification.
The Waste generation per unit of production acquisition of Stromag in late 2011 meant that the Group took ownership of a number of kg tonne locations that were not certified to this standard.
The process of certifying these sites in line with GKN policies is now underway.
 Lean Enterprise is applied to energy efficiency and waste reduction programmes, both in  offices and at manufacturing locations.
All sites continue to develop energy efficiency  targets, and actions are incorporated into their continuous improvement plans, ensuring  regular reviews and appropriate actions.
 The Group objective is to improve energy efficiency by 15% over the period 2009 to 2014.
Every division is on track to meet this.
Since 2009, GKN Driveline has improved energy  Driveline Powder Aerospace Land efficiency by 10%, GKN Powder Metallurgy by 13%, GKN Aerospace by 12% and GKN Land Metallurgy Systems Systems by 14%.
In 2012, GKN Driveline and GKN Powder Metallurgy improved energy    efficiency compared with 2011.
GKN Driveline and GKN Land Systems were slightly less efficient in 2012 compared to 2011 due to the effect of acquisitions where energy efficiency Recycled waste is being brought up to Group standards.
% of total waste GKN encourages individual sites to take the initiative to reduce environmental impacts.
GKN Driveline in South Europe has instigated a programme of changing its traditional fluorescent  lighting to LED lighting.
When completed in 2013, it will reduce its carbon emissions by some  2,360 tonnes per year.
In GKN Driveline Bruneck, the focus has been on reducing the amount  of oil consumed in its bearing manufacture process.
Thanks to improved centrifuges and better procedures, the quantity of oil recovered and reused has substantially increased.
This  means that mixed oil and water is no longer being shipped offsite.
 During 2012, there were ten environmental enforcement actions issued to six sites in the  USA with a total financial penalty of $7,600.
Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems    Water consumption per unit of production 3 m tonne  Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems    Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales.
44 Sustainability report Accident frequency rate Health and Safety Number of lost time accidents per 1,000 employees We will care for you by providing a safe working environment.. .
"""... GKN is committed to continuous improvement in health and safety performance, with a goal."
of zero preventable accidents..  GKN measures progress towards its goal through two metrics.
The accident frequency rate AFR is used to track the number of lost time accidents and the accident severity rate ASR.
records the number of days lost due to accidents and occupational ill health.
From 2011 both these measures incorporate agency workers: prior to this date GKN employees only were.
2012 saw an improvement in the Groups safety performance, with AFR reducing from 2.3 in 2011 to 2.1, and ASR reducing from 59 in 2011 to 51.
 performance was marred by a fatality late in the year.
   A subcontractor at the GKN Wheels Liuzhou plant in China suffered a fatal injury during a lifting operation of a large mining wheel.
A full investigation was carried out and lessons 2008-2010 figures include employees only, learned have been communicated across the Group.
We deeply regret this loss of life and 2011-2012 figures also include agency workers.
have provided support to the employees family.
This incident underlined the importance of maintaining our impetus to improve safety.
Supporting this are two Group programmes: thinkSAFE!
and a new formal safety audit process.
is a global communication and awareness programme pioneered by GKN Driveline Number of days shifts lost due to accidents and that has now been rolled out across the Group see page 20.
Each location has a safety occupational ill health per 1,000 employees corner which is used to communicate key safety messages in an engaging manner and to provide focused training on key safety issues.
These are supported by e-brochures translated  into 26 languages and video reconstructions of actual accidents are used to highlight behavioural issues and demonstrate the nature of hazards.
Although it is still early days,  there is clear evidence that where thinkSAFE!
is rigorously applied it yields positive results.
 During 2011-2012, some 50 internal safety audits were carried out through the use of external  audit expertise, a new internal Health, Safety and Environment HSE audit function, and HSE peer audits.
The audits assess performance against broad-based and wide-ranging criteria.
 Audit findings are used to ensure corrective actions are made and to improve the work  environment by spreading best practice.
 GKN continues to promote the use of RADAR Risk Awareness, Detection, Action and Review among all employee groups.
A GKN-developed behaviour awareness and improvement tool,  RADAR assists employees in recognising hazards and risks in their working area and  empowers them to take action to improve their workplace.
     2012 has also seen the introduction of Total Plant Risk Management TPRM, which applies risk management processes to the broader aspects of manufacturing facilities by educating 2008-2010 figures include employees only, key specialist employees in areas such as gas explosion, electrical and fire risk.
Screening 2011-2012 figures also include agency workers.
tools allow specialists to identify potential risks and take appropriate corrective actions.
This programme was developed by GKN Driveline in 2012 and in excess of 150 employees have been trained.
During 2013, TPRM will be integrated into key operations throughout the rest of the Group.
During 2012, there were a total of five safety enforcement actions issued, three in Brazil with a total penalty of $4,400, one action in the USA with a penalty of $29,000 and one in the UK with a penalty of 13,885.
4N Communities We are all part of a wider society and we will contribute positively to the communities in which we operate.
GKN has a long tradition of working with the communities in which it operates.
Some initiatives are company led, but more often than not the impetus comes from employees themselves.
There is a rich history at GKN of supporting local activities around the world through community programmes.
To encourage this, individuals and groups of employees are recognised for the contribution they make through the annual GKN Hearts of Gold Awards.
In 2012, awards recognised activities that helped to create opportunities for disabled people The GKN Hope School in Sweden and for people who need special care in Slovenia: supported orphaned teenagers In December 2012, a delegation from GKN China made one of its regular visits to GKN Hope School in Liangping County, in Romania: worked with local community groups across the world: and raised funds for Chongqing.
Money raised by GKN employees was used to hospitals and hospices through a wide range of events and personal endeavours.
improve the lives of the children at the school.
The GKN Hope School was rebuilt in 2008 from the original Tian These activities are just a few of the numerous connections with communities: visit Sheng Elementary School in Pingjin Town, which was www.
com  for further examples of the work undertaken by destroyed during the Sichuan earthquake.
Now the school GKN employees.
offers both the elementary and kindergarten programmes and has 50 students in total.
GKN China donations helped fund the rebuild and provide continuous care and ongoing material support.
