2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 49 Responsible business Our commercial success is directly Using innovative science In 2012, we made linked to operating in a trustworthy and to create value substantive moves to responsible way.
We report our approach The biggest contribution we can make and the progress we are making across increase access and to improving health is through scientific four areas: innovation.
U Health for all Innovating to address further initiatives in open innovation, currently unmet health needs: where we seek to share intellectual improving access to our products, property and knowledge with external irrespective of where people live or researchers to help stimulate R&D into their ability to pay: controlling or areas where traditional commercial eliminating diseases affecting the approaches have met difficulties.
These include: U Our behaviour Putting the interests U-L}vLV of patients and consumers first, driven promising inhibitors for tuberculosis by our values in everything we do and TB from our library of compounds to backed by robust policies and strong help stimulate research.
TB still kills compliance processes.
U Our people Enabling our people to U `} vixi thrive and develop as individuals to Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation to deliver our mission.
help independent researchers advance their own projects.
There are now 16 U Our planet Growing our business research projects in the portfolio 1st while reducing our environmental impact across our value chain.
U }vVi i }{ ` } in ATM index an innovative public-private Highlights about our approach and collaboration launched to tackle For the third consecutive report, GSK examples of progress in these four areas antibiotic resistance.
Supported by scored highest in the bi-annual Access to follow.
Additional information on our the European Innovative Medicines Medicines ATM Index, released in 2012. approach and performance is published Initiative IMI, the project will be The index, prepared by the Access to in our Corporate Responsibility Report, funded by a joint budget of 180m.
Medicines Foundation, provides a ranking which can be found on our website.
of pharmaceutical companies access to Improving access to our medicine activities, measuring seven technical Health for all products and to healthcare aspects such as R&D activities, pricing We are working to make our medicines Access to medicines and healthcare is a schemes and patents & licensing policies.
and healthcare products available and priority for us, and we recognise that there affordable to as many people who need can be challenges to providing sustainable them as possible.
We aim to do this while access to healthcare across the world.
also generating the returns we need to Cost can be a barrier to people in both sustain our business and invest in R&D.
We continue to evolve our business Having a exible approach to pricing is model to address the increasing need for one way to create access and build our new and existing treatments.
The way we business by increasing the overall volume price our products is more exible and of products we sell.
We offer tiered pricing more reective of different healthcare for our vaccines and medicines, capped needs in developed and developing prices in the UNs Least Developed countries and we have changed the way Countries LDCs and preferential pricing we conduct R&D to be more open than by ViiV Healthcare of our anti-retrovirals ten years ago.
for HIV AIDS in LDCs, sub-Saharan Africa and all low-income countries.
See our Corporate responsibility report.
50 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review simplify the operating model Responsible business continued Through our Developing Countries Case study and Market Access DCMA unit we have created a business group Giving children a better start dedicated to increasing patient access to GSK medicines in the worlds poorest Soil-transmitted helminths commonly known as intestinal worms affect countries.
In these countries we invest more than two billion people worldwide and are one of the biggest causes of 20% of the profits made there back into ill health in school-age children.
The World Health Organization estimates that community programmes to strengthen 890 million children are at risk of infection.
Infection with worms can cause local healthcare infrastructure.
This stomach pain, sickness and malnutrition, as well as stunting physical growth investment in resources like clinics, and long-term brain development.
hospitals, doctors, nurses, and training Through our membership of a global coalition of pharmaceutical companies programmes increases the number and non-government organisations including the Bill & Melinda Gates of people who can get much-needed Foundation and the World Bank as well as governments and global health healthcare and medicines.
By October organisations, we committed to work together to control or eliminate ten of 2012, we had a programme in place in the 17 neglected tropical diseases by 2020. all 34 of the LDCs where our business had made a profit.
Our contribution includes donating our anti-parasitic treatment, albendazole The 20% reinvestment programme is to help ght intestinal worms in school-age children.
Healthier children are delivered through our partnership with more likely to attend school and get a better education giving them a better three non-governmental organisations chance of getting good jobs and becoming productive members of society.
We work In 2012, the first year of this donation programme, we provided albendazole with Save the Children in West Africa, treatment for over 120 million school age children including these children AMREF in East and Southern Africa, and in Ghana pictured.
Increasing peoples access to medicines is also about the availability of the medicines or products in a country.
To address this, we are increasing registration of new and existing products across markets and using local manufacturing options whenever possible to make sure people in a range of countries can get the medicines they need.
Targeting neglected tropical diseases Neglected tropical diseases NTDs threaten more than one billion people in developing countries.
In 2012, GSK united with other private and public partners to create the London Declaration Initiative to control or eliminate ten of the 17 neglected tropical diseases by the end of the decade.
Our initial focus is extending access to medicines for five diseases where treatments already exist, including lymphatic lariasis and intestinal worms.
In 2012, we donated our three billionth albendazole tablet in the ght against this disguring disease.
Marcus Perkins 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 51 Malaria is responsible for more than In 2012 GSK donated medicines valued at Our employee survey results from 2012 655,000 deaths a year, mainly among 131 million at cost and 54 million in reect our efforts to integrate a valueschildren in sub-Saharan Africa.
Product donations of 3.3 million based culture at GSK.
More than 90% of holistic approach to malaria control were distributed to 86 countries for respondents stated they understand what includes vaccine development, promoting humanitarian aid.
Supplies of antibiotics, constitutes ethical business practices preventive measures such as bed nets basic medicines and oral hygiene items and conduct in their job, and more than and mosquito control, and preferential were distributed to those affected by 80% agreed that their work environment pricing for anti-malarials in LDCs.
In conicts, a cholera epidemic in Niger, encourages ethical behaviour in the face 2012 we published late-stage clinical trial oods in the Philippines and hurricanes of pressures to meet business objectives.
results showing that our RTS, S vaccine Isaac and Sandy in the USA.
All GSK employees have access to candidate can help protect African We continue to invest in a programme whistleblowing mechanisms that children against malaria.
to prevent diarrhoea and pneumonia they can use to get advice, and to by teaching children the importance of report suspected cases of misconduct Supporting health and well-being hand washing.
The programme has been anonymously if required.
Our global in our communities running for 15 years, and has reached condential reporting line is available We fund and support local programmes 1.5 million children in 16 countries.
that make a significant contribution 2012, we began integrating oral health We continue to support the Guiding to the health and well-being of education and school fide-worming into Principles on Business and Human communities.
Our contributions support the programme.
Rights endorsed by the United Nations disaster relief, medicine donations, Human Rights Council in 2011.
Our aim engagement programmes to change Our behaviour is to apply the guiding principles across behaviour and improve health and our own operations and our supplier science education to help develop our How we deliver success is just as relationships.
health professionals, scientists and important to us as what we achieve.
We will put the interests of patients Sales and marketing and consumers first and be driven by We launched a new Global Code of our values of: Practices for Promotion and Customer Our giving in 2012 U iV Interactions last year.
The code covers 4 1 payments to health care professionals, U, iiVvii 3 samples, hospitality, grants and U i} donations.
Activities must conform to our ethical, medical and scientific U ivVi` standards and all applicable laws, regulations and industry codes.
Ethical conduct 2 All sales and marketing employees Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK.
are being trained on the revised code.
m Failure to uphold high ethical standards 1 Product and in-kind 131 can erode trust in our company and In 2012 we entered into a settlement 2 Cash 54 our products, damage our reputation, with the US federal government related 3 Management 19 and result in serious financial or legal to past sales and marketing practices.
While the actions triggering these issues originated in a different era for In 2012 we revised and simplied our our company, they cannot and will not Cash giving by type of programme Code of Conduct to make it very clear supported in 2012 be ignored.
In the USA, we have taken to employees how to apply GSK Values action at all levels and improved our and Behaviours.
The code is available in 1 procedures for compliance, marketing 28 languages and supported by a new 3 and selling.
As part of the settlement Policy Resource Centre on the companys we entered into a Corporate Integrity intranet that provides information, Agreement with the US Department of support and training.
Health and Human Services, under which Our Annual Business Ethics Certications we are building improvements into our for managers is being revised and will existing compliance programmes.
Over 33,000 % 1 Health 56 managers will be asked to undertake this 2 Education 28 training, conrming their compliance 3 Other 16 with the code of conduct.
52 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review simplify the operating model Responsible business continued Performance-based pay, bonuses and Working with healthcare Manufacturing and supply share-based equity plans align employee professionals Suppliers to GSK are required to adhere interests with business targets.
to our Third Party Code of Conduct Healthcare professionals HCPs are and must demonstrate ethical standards valuable partners for GSK, providing us We have invested signicantly in the within their business and their own with scientific and medical expertise and development of our leadership through supply chains.
In 2012 we carried out insights into patient care.
Our work with interventions at every stage of the in-depth environment, health and safety HCPs can include conducting research on pipeline from our most senior executives audits of critical suppliers to improve our behalf or acting in an advisory and to first line leaders.
sustainability in the supply chain and consulting capacity such as providing Our early career development programmes strengthen supplier relationships.
We also expertise at GSK advisory boards or include graduate schemes, internships, conducted assessments to understand speaking on our behalf about diseases or industrial placements, apprenticeships and geographical risks and plan for any therapy areas relevant to us.
We believe ESPRIT, our global MBA programme.
In potential interruptions to supply.
Supply HCPs should be fairly compensated 2012 we employed 52 apprentices and continuity was assessed for 20 key and we have clear standards, aligned recruited 317 graduates.
suppliers in 2012 and another 20 are with industry codes of practice and scheduled for 2013. appropriate laws and regulations, A diverse workforce which govern these payments.
We have We continue to address the problem We focus on creating an inclusive, committed to publishing the payments of counterfeit medicines.
In China, we engaging environment that empowers we make to HCPs and were one of the added serial numbers to 31 products, employees to continually contribute first companies to start to do this in the resulting in a significant reduction in to the organisation that enables us to USA, commencing in 2009. the number of reports of counterfeit achieve our strategic business objectives.
This track and trace An inclusive environment is good for Transparency of research technology will help us implement business as it brings together different We are committed to reporting the results similar initiatives elsewhere in the world.
knowledge, perspectives, experiences of our clinical research, irrespective of and working styles that enhance whether the outcomes are perceived to Our people creativity and innovation.
be positive or negative for our medicines.
To further increase this transparency, We aim to attract a diverse workforce GSK wants to be an employer of choice.
we announced plans in 2012 to enable that reects the communities in which Our ability to attract, retain and motivate researchers to access anonymised patientwe operate.
the best people is essential to achieving level data from published clinical trials our objectives and executing our strategy.
U iiVi }ivi}iii of our medicines.
Requests for data will Our employment practices are designed to positions grew in 2012, reecting our be reviewed by an independent panel of help us create the right workplace culture goal to increase the proportion at the experts to evaluate the scientific merit in which all employees feel valued, most senior levels.
We already publish respected, empowered and inspired.
summary results of every research trial on U iLiviiii the GSK Clinical Study Register, and in Recruiting, developing and our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacic and early 2013 we outlined our plans to add rewarding our people Japan regions represent 42% of our Clinical Study Reports onto the Register total workforce.
GSK is committed to supporting in the future see page 36. employees to perform to their best and U Vi VVi`vv we ensure that appropriate programmes We conduct regular clinical-quality UK and 22.1% of US employees in 2012. and mechanisms are in place to deliver assurance assessments to confirm that the overall performance.
Individuals meet conduct of trials upholds our standards.
Women in management positions % 90% of their development needs In 2012 we conducted 293 assessments, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 through challenging on-the-job projects, including review of investigator sites, SVP, VP 27 26 25 25 25 mentoring and coaching, with 10% GSK local operating companies and Director 39 38 37 36 36 derived from formal development such as clinical research organisations carrying Manager 43 42 42 42 41 training programmes.
out clinical trials on our behalf.
GSK fully Total 40 39 38 38 38 investigates any concerns identied, and Our performance and development Ethnic minorities UK and USA employees % performed 47 investigations in 2012 in planning process means employees response to suspected irregularities, taking have business-aligned objectives and 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 corrective action where appropriate.
Reward systems USA 22.1 21.9 20.4 20.4 20.5 promote high performance and help to attract and retain the best people.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 53 Case study Fair play in sport We were proud to play an important role in the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games as the Ofcial Laboratory Services Provider using our scientific expertise and facilities to support the integrity of the Games and the health of competing athletes.
Working with Kings College London, we provided the facilities and equipment that allowed the expert analysts from Kings to independently operate a World Anti-Doping Agency WADA accredited laboratory.
More than 6,000 anti-doping tests were carried out, which was more than at any other Games.
By the end of the Olympics, every medalist who stepped on the podium and up to half of all competing athletes had been tested.
Being a science-led organisation, we were well placed to provide the testing facilities, offering one of our research and development sites located about 45 minutes north of the Olympic Park.
This was the first time a pharmaceutical company had been involved in the provision of anti-doping services for an Olympic or Paralympic Games.
54 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review simplify the operating model Responsible business continued We are committed to employment A healthy high-performing Water policies free from discrimination and to workforce with zero harm Our goal is to reduce our water impact an environment that does not tolerate across the value chain by 20% relative To improve the quality of life of harassment or discrimination of: actual or to 2010.
In 2012 we reduced water our employees and their families, perceived race, colour, ethnic or national consumption in our operations by 14% in 2012 we piloted a groundbreaking origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, compared to 2010.
We recognise that Preventative Health programme, to be gender identity and or expression, religion water is an important natural resource phased in globally across GSK over the or belief, physical ability disability and and that we can play a positive role in next five years.
This partnership with or chronic health conditions, genetic managing our use of it more sustainably.
our employees and their families is make-up or other protected characteristics We have begun to develop longer-term designed to reduce personal health as relevant in a country.
strategies with input from several risks through access to a set of core international organisations.
We have preventive health services.
Engaging our employees also signed the UN CEO Water Mandate, We continue to aim for zero harm to our In 2012 we maintained a rate of 85% of an initiative designed to help companies employees and we continue to develop employees saying they are proud to work develop, implement and disclose risk reduction programmes, including for GSK based on a 72% participation rate sustainable water practices.
upgrades to guard equipment on in our global employee survey.
machinery, and dust-reduction activities Waste Our volunteering programmes continue in our manufacturing sites in 2012.
Our goal is for zero waste to be sent to to provide employees with a strong landll by 2020 from our operations.
Our employee injury and illness rate sense of purpose.
PULSE gives employees In 2012 we reduced waste generation in reduced by 10%.
the chance to join a charity or non our operations by 9% and reduced the governmental organisation NGO for waste sent to landll by 41% compared Our planet three or six month, full-time placements.
We established an inhaler The GSK Orange Day allows all Environmental sustainability is a priority collection service Complete the Cycle in employees to commit a day of their time for GSK.
Our focus is to reduce carbon, the UK that has collected over 90,000 to a local charity either individually or as water and waste.
We have set ambitious inhalers to date.
We have recently part of a team.
targets in these areas and we are working expanded a pilot inhaler collection As a corporate partner for the London to create change, from our use of raw service in the USA from five to 31 cities.
2012 Olympic Games, all our allocated materials, to the use and disposal of our tickets went to our employees.
We ran a products by consumers.
Managing other impacts global Golden Ticket competition Alongside our priority issues of carbon, asking employees to nominate colleagues Carbon water and waste, we also manage a range who demonstrated actions in their daily Our goal is to reduce our value chain of other important environmental issues.
lives or work showing the Olympic carbon footprint by 10% in 2015 and One is green chemistry which aims to values of friendship, equality, integrity by 25% by 2020.
Our carbon footprint replace the use of hazardous chemicals and excellence.
excluding the contribution from raw and processes with those that have a materials which we cannot currently lower environmental impact.
In 2012 we Managing change measure on an annual basis has created a Green Chemistry Performance We are very conscious of the effect increased by 7% compared to 2010, Unit to put green chemistry theories restructuring has on employees.
We aim however we remain confident on into practice.
The unit has published 12 to achieve organisational and financial hitting our 2015 target.
internal guides that help employees make goals without eliminating positions and better chemical choices when designing U7i ii`Vi`V Lv to redeploy employees where possible.
from energy for operations by 15%.
We remain committed to consulting on changes via a number of consultation U Vi i` iviii``i i forums, as well as discussions with the have resulted in a 12% rise in greenhouse European Works Council and similar gas emissions from inhaler use.
bodies in countries where this is national U iv Vi]i Vii` practice.
If jobs are lost through business global certication to the Carbon change, we offer compensation and other Trust Standard, which certies that support such as outplacement in line we are making year-on-year overall with local requirements and employment reductions in emissions associated with legislation.
We also offer employees operations and transport.
GSK is the support through resilience training and only multinational to have achieved an Employee Assistance Programme.
