1.5 | sustainability Glencore Corporate Practice GCP is designed to ensure ro pendent audits of Glencores sustainability performance, and bust business practice for sustainability and other nonfinancial any management strategies and action plans created in re business areas, throughout all Glencore business segments and sponse to issues raised, making recommendations to the Board commodity departments, at both corporate and local levels.
as appropriate and providing guidance to management.
It meets  best practice standards for corporate governance and the management of nonfinancial activities.
We use it to continuously improve performance in PROgREss OVERViEw FOR 2012 these areas, and to develop internal and external understand ing and acceptance of how we manage sustainability.
Health and safety We regret to report 22 fatalities at our operations in 2012 com pared to 18 in both 2011 and 2010.
It is quite clear that we must International law continue with our unwavering focus on improving health and Best practice standards safety practices.
Despite the unacceptably high level of fatali ties, we were able to reduce our lost time injury frequency rate to 2.84 per million hours worked, down from 3.58 in 2011.
GCP principles In 2012 we conducted independent health and safety assess ments, combined with baseline studies of our environmental GCP management activities, at almost all our major assets.
We used this compre hensive data to create and introduce a systematic improvement plan, in conjunction with our external assessor DuPont.
Among a range of initiatives, the plan includes stringent fatality inves Group and local policies tigation procedures.
The essence of our learning from these assessments is summarised in the new GCP programmes health and safety section.
This was made public in our 2011 Local law sustainability report, published in November 2012.
Environment We experienced no serious environmental incidents classified tHE sCOPE OF gCP as Class A: Major within our environmental incident reporting system in 2012, as in 2011 and 2010.
We believe that this posi The GCP requirements are mandatory for everyone at Glencore.
tive result demonstrates the robust nature of our procedures and This applies throughout our marketing activities, and in all indus policies, which enable us to effectively manage our extensive and trial activities where we have operational control.
complex business activities with minimal environmental impact.
The GCP programme also commits us to a path of continuous gCP gOVERnAnCE improvement in our environmental performance.
2012 saw a num ber of initiatives commenced, implemented or completed.
One Responsibility for GCP development and implementation lies of the most important is the upgrade to our smelter in Mufulira, with our management and the Health, Safety, Environment and Zambia.
In this final stage of work, we are installing further gas Communities HSEC committee, established by Glencores capturing equipment and a second acid plant.
The upgrade will Board in 2011.
Chaired by an independent Board member, this be completed by the end of 2013, allowing the plant to capture committee provides the leadership, control and guidance that over 97% of its sulphur dioxide emissions.
This is approximately 18 seeks to ensure groupwide GCP adherence.
months ahead of the timetable set by the Zambian government in the environmental management plan agreed during privatisation.
The committee evaluates how effectively we identify and man age environmental and health and safety risks, and assesses our Another achievement in 2012 was the agreement in April to re compliance with the relevant regulations.
It assesses the impact sume operations at our Mufulira heap leach facilities.
While op of Glencore sustainability programmes on our employees, local erations at this plant were within prescribed environmental limits, communities and other third parties, as well as the impact on residents of the nearby Butondo township had raised objections.
This led to the temporary suspension of operations while con ducting an investigation into the communitys concerns.
An all The committee receives management reports on all fatalities inclusive stakeholder consultation process, including local repre and serious accidents and the resulting actions, and evaluates sentatives, NGOs and the Zambian environmental management and oversees all sustainability reporting to external stakehold agency, facilitated an amicable resolution of the situation and led ers, on behalf of the Board.
It reviews the results of any inde to enhanced safety and environmental measures.
18 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion Communities Reporting Our Calenturitas coal project in Cesar province, Colombia, con We issued our second public sustainability report cover tinues with the previously reported resettlement project initiat ing 2011 in the last quarter of 2012.
This is available to read ed due to air quality concerns.
Prodeco is working together with online or download at www.
three other mining companies and an external team of local and Annual reporting will continue this year with the publication international resettlement experts appointed in 2011.
Together, covering progress and changes in 2012. the stakeholders have formed the negotiation committees that are now working to agree a resettlement action plan.
tHE gCP PROgRAMME We also continued our established programme of social devel opment projects: the representative examples below are taken 2012 also saw the enhancement of our GCP programme pub from our activities in the DRC.
The operations involved are lished in our 2011 sustainability report, incorporating Board Katanga and Mutanda and the main areas of focus are infrastruc approved groupwide sustainability targets and objectives into ture, health and education.
Progress is monitored closely by the HSEC Board committee on a regular basis.
Infrastructure: Katanga has paved over 19 kilometres of roads in Kolwezi and maintains a further 30 kilometres between The programme has two elements: strategic objectives, which nearby villages.
It has also refurbished roads in Lubumbashi are updated as they are achieved, and ongoing projects.
and contributed to the commissioning of a new ferry for the Together, these address our key sustainability goals and set Lualaba river.
Separately, Mutanda has funded the construc out our strategy for the next three to five years, allowing us to tion of a new bridge over the Lualaba as well as maintaining measure and report on our progress towards fulfilling our GCP roads.
Both operations have also provided infrastructure to commitments.
supply drinking water for several villages.
They have donated farming supplies to the Provincial Ministry of Agriculture, and Katanga has assisted individual farmers with seed, tools and fertilisers, while Mutanda provides ongoing funding for a fish farm in Kando.
A joint programme with the DRCs national electricity utility will see us fund a major $284million power refurbishment pro gramme.
Funding started in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2015.
The programme will increase capacity to the public power grid and improve the general reliability and stability of supplies for the region.
Health: both operations have built stateoftheart onsite hospitals and run comprehensive HIV AIDS training and treat ment programmes.
Katanga donates pharmaceuticals for ma laria and other common diseases, such as diarrhoea, coughs and fever.
Mutandas two clinics in neighbouring communities offer weekly open clinics.
Katangas malaria programme in cludes vector control spraying for nearly ten thousand house holds, while both operations programmes include spraying of homes, plants, mines, offices and local government offices.
Mutanda has worked with the government to open a vaccina tion clinic for children under five, as well as an independent mother and baby programme to help eliminate infant malnutri tion.
These programmes have helped reduce infant mortality rates to a third of previous levels.
Katanga has also built two new hospitals in Kisangani Orientale province and Pweto Katanga province.
Education: Katanga and Mutanda have assisted in renovating and supporting local schools, benefitting 9,500 pupils with desks, books, computers and buildings.
Both have made finan cial contributions and supplied raw materials, engineers and labour to a number of schools, colleges and universities.
This includes UNIKOL University of Kolwezi, Matendo school in Kolwezi, Nyumba ya Heri school and ISTA Institut Suprieur fide Techniques Appliques.
