Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information At operating company level, safety is managed by each companys board through their safety management groups.
Individually, our businesses have made good progress Reducing water usage this year too.
Improving our environmental performance is not just about reducing Oxford Bus Company has pioneered IMPACT Incident Management, Preventing Accidents carbon emissions.
During the year we & Cycle Tolerance as part of the new driver Certicate of Professional Competence CPC.
have made significant progress in IMPACT covers the major types of hazards drivers are likely to encounter, their possible reducing our water usage through the consequences and the associated costs.
It also includes a module on driving amongst cyclists installation of toilet ush controls and an important factor in Oxford trafc.
Go-Ahead London has focused on this aspect of driver leak detection data loggers.
This has training too in response to the growing number of bike users on the capitals roads, which has resulted in a 27% decrease in water been partly driven by the introduction of Transport for Londons cycle hire scheme two years ago.
This year saw the extension of Eyewitness, Southerns award winning antisocial behaviour reporting tool, from internal use to passenger use.
Southeastern also introduced the scheme for the first time.
A simple email system, Eyewitness supports our train operating companies Safer Travel Teams to tackle crime on the network.
The team also works closely with the British Transport Police to reduce crime and help passengers feel safer.
This year, the Safer Travel Team at Southern has been working with local authorities to raise awareness amongst school children about travelling safely.
The team has attended school safety days and reached around 1,000 students across the network, ensuring that young people have the confidence use rail travel safely.
Our bus companies also worked hard to further improve safety on their networks.
For example, Metrobus worked in partnership with the Bromley Safer Transport Team and Police to tackle criminal damage to bus vehicles.
Environment This year, we have continued to reduce the environmental impact of our operations by improving our energy efficiency.
Our Group-wide Driving Energy Further strategy has encouraged our operating companies to remain focused on reducing energy consumption.
This year we have reduced CO emissions per passenger journey to 0.86kgs, down from 2 1.00kgs established during the baseline year of 2007 08.
Our target is to reduce our CO 2 emissions per passenger journey by 20% by 2015 and we are delighted to have achieved a 14% reduction to date, a 2% per cent improvement on last year.
Driving Energy Further is co-ordinated by the Group Energy Forum chaired by the Group Engineering Director.
The Forum reviews progress against each operating companys energy reduction targets, shares best practice and identies initiatives aimed at reducing energy consumption even further.
Traction electricity used by our electric train eets and fuel used by our buses are the two main Groups CO emissions by source 2 sources of our carbon emissions.
In order to improve our environmental performance, Southern and Southeastern have focused on introducing regenerative braking with 82% of their regenerative braking-capable eet now using this process, while London Midland is the first train operating company to install meters on its entire electric eet.
Our bus companies have continued to refresh fuel efficient driving techniques for our 10,000 drivers.
All drivers undergo a RIBAS driver training module dealing with Revving, Idling, Braking, Accelerating and Speed.
The RIBAS course educates drivers that their behaviour has a direct bearing on the amount of fuel a bus uses and through this, carbon use and cost.
Every bus has an indicator panel tted in the cab which shows the driver when pre-set limits for each of the RIBAS measures is exceeded: by reference to the panel, a driver is better informed and is able to drive at the optimum level of economy.
This scheme has resulted in improved fuel efficiency of up to 10% in some companies.
Other measures include a requirement for bus drivers to switch off engines when stationary Rail traction electricity 55% for more than one minute, installation of a spill free fuelling system, monitoring of engine Bus fuel 34% idling in the depot complex, and the evaluation of different tyre technologies to give the Site energy 6% best fuel consumption.
Rail diesel 5% This year we have continued to boost the number of hybrid buses in our eet and expect to have 140 by 2013, with 58 gained as a result of the Green Bus Fund.
More than 31% of Oxford Bus Companys eet is comprised of hybrid buses and the company continues to work closely with local partners including local councils on the delivery of the Oxford Low Emission one which is due at the end of 2013.
We continue to work with our key suppliers to improve the environmental performance of buses.
