Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Sustainability The responsible operation of our business is integrated into the daily running of our bus and rail services.
Operating our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally responsible manner is central to our strategy.
Ensuring our companies operate in a sustainable way is important to me personally, and our performance is a permanent item on the Group Board meeting agenda.
Our responsible approach to business means we ensure our services are safe for our passengers and staff we constantly seek ways to reduce our impact on the environment and aim to deliver a high quality service to our passengers.
We want our companies to be great places to work, so we invest in training and equipment which together give our staff the tools and skills they need to do their jobs well.
We have also continued to build solid relationships with our local communities and with wider society more generally.
This year has once again seen Go-Ahead achieve a number of successes in all these areas.
We have achieved high rankings in global and national sustainability league tables, won awards for innovation, businesses excellence and customer service, and developed new partnerships aimed at improving the lives of vulnerable children and delivering better transport across the developing world.
Our staff have continued to provide services which achieve high levels of customer satisfaction and we support the local economy both as an employer and by providing vital transport links to jobs, retail centres and education.
We are fully committed to applying supply chain management best practice across David Brown pictured meeting Southeastern staff Corey our businesses and to ensuring our approach meets both statutory and regulatory Lewis left and Chris Petit at London Victoria station requirements and the needs of employees, passengers and the wider community.
I am delighted that we have continued to make excellent progress towards achieving our target to reduce our carbon emissions per passenger journey by 20% by 2015, Key highlights against our 2007 08 benchmark.
We have improved by a further two per cent this year, 14% reduction in CO 2 bringing the total reduction gure to 14% this is a great achievement.
Next year, we emissions per passenger will be piloting innovative staff engagement programmes to further improve our environmental performance.
Our largest operating companies each produce their own sustainability reports which Gold ranking in Business are available on their own websites and Go-Aheads.
I am very proud that our businesses in the Community Corporate continue to show genuine commitment to operating sustainability and to sharing their Responsibility Index.
performance with a range of stakeholders.
ighest ranked British transport operator in the David Brown, Group Chief Executive 5 September 2012 Governments first Carbon Reduction Commitment league table.
For further Group information on our targets and performance see our corporate website at www.
com responsibility where you will also nd our operating company Named tenth best sustainability reports company globally for our sustainable performance Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 by EIRIS, a leading ethical performance research organisation.
Taking our Taking our communities places Taking our communities places communities places New Go-Learn education materials launched.
