Sustainability continued Our approach Our stakeholders We operate rail and bus services across England, carrying over one billion passengers a year.
For Go-Ahead, sustainable transport means running our trains and buses safely, reducing Passengers the impact of our operations on the environment and being passenger focused.
It also means Employees Government developing our staff and enriching our local communities while growing our business profitably for our shareholders.
Our approach covers five key areas of our business: safety, environment, our passengers, employees and the community, which includes our economic impacts.
We report our performance against targets in each of these areas.
Supply chain Community Working with stakeholders As a leading UK transport provider, we face a wide range of complex and inter-related issues.
Some of those issues are within our control, some we can inuence and others are more difficult to manage.
But we believe that by operating responsibly we are better placed to achieve long-term shareholder value and meet our stakeholders expectations of our business.
Working with stakeholders is a fundamental part of our approach to sustainability and to Investors the way we run our bus and train services.
We analyse information we gather from research, meetings and surveys to understand key issues for different groups and use it to plan our sustainability strategy and set new commitments.
We work in partnership with other parties such as central and local government as well Independent survey as our customers and colleagues to tackle issues and nd solutions.
Below we set out our Our rail franchise Southern carries out approach to managing our stakeholders.
an annual independent stakeholder survey.
This year saw a 62% response Employees rate, with a score of 8.2 out of ten in Go-Ahead staff are encouraged to put passengers at the heart of everything they do.
We terms of stakeholder satisfaction up aim to ensure our people have the skills and tools to do that by providing training and the from 7.3 the previous year.
We encourage our staff to give us their views through staff surveys, social media channels, regular discussions, team meetings, forums and conferences.
Internal sustainability governance structure The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors Executive Directors Operating Company Boards Group Energy Forum Group, ealth & Safety Forum Better T ogether Forums Shares best practice.
Chaired by, uman Resources by Group Engineering Director Group Engineering Director Stakeholder Engagement & Group Environment & & external health Customer Service Energy Manager & safety consultant Operational Excellence Individual operating companies 44 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
