Corporate governance continued Our devolved structure Compliance with the UK We believe that our devolved management structure, as illustrated below, enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective way.
Local management throughout the Corporate Governance Code Group are empowered to operate our companies as autonomous business units, whilst working The Board considers that the Company together to share experience and expertise around the Group.
For example, many aspects has, throughout the year ended 30 June of the Groups day-to-day operations report through operating company senior management 2012, complied with the provisions of directly into the Board through the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director the UK Corporate Governance Code the Executive Directors.
These include: the Code and has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code monthly Board meetings with the senior management of all operating companies: as described on pages 57 to 70 regular cross-business forums such as the Rail and Bus Steering Groups, Finance Director of this Report.
The only exception is Forum and commercial, operational, engineering and, R forums which identify opportunities with regard to: to share experience and best practice across operations: and weekly meetings with the senior managers responsible for the key centralised Group functions Provision B.
1.2 of the Code, which the Executive Team Group to look across the businesses to identify and realise synergies.
requires more than half the Board In addition, there are a number of Group forums that are held on a regular basis such as the, ealth, excluding the Chairman to be Safety and Energy Forum.
Such forums, which report directly to the Executive Directors, enable independent Non-Executive Directors.
representatives from all operating companies to share best and emerging practice, to seek synergies From the date of the announcement and cost savings, to improve quality and to achieve economies of scale wherever possible.
that Rupert Pennant-Rea was no longer considered independent It is this infrastructure which allows the right equilibrium between local initiatives and ones until Nick, orlers appointment on that can add up for the Groups benefit and enable the Board to be well informed about our 14 November 2011, there were only businesses, employees, passengers and stakeholders.
This in turn means that we are able to two independent Non-Executive respond to the changing dynamics of the businesses in which we operate in a timely and Directors.
During this two week knowledgeable manner.
period there were no Board or Committee Meetings.
The Code and associated guidance can Board and management structure be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Committee Committee Committee Directors Operating Rail Business Bus Business Executive Company Boards Steering Group Steering Group Team Group Forums: Forums: Commercial, R Leadership Engineering, R Leadership Operational Marketing Finance, ealth & Safety Engineering Safety Group Operational Energy Finance Excellence Marketing & Commercial Sustainability Sustainability is deeply embedded across all aspects of our organisation.
To ensure that corporate responsibility is prioritised across the business, internal safety and energy targets for each of our operating companies are set at the beginning of each financial year.
Progress against these targets is linked to both operating company senior managers and Executive Directors remuneration.
In addition, a health and safety audit of each of our businesses is undertaken by an external consultant each year.
56 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Board is ultimately responsible for corporate responsibility across the Group.
As such, we do not have sustainability or health and safety committees at Board level as we believe Sustainability that all Board members should be involved in these fundamental areas that are central For more information on how the Group has made to our business.
The Groups at structure provides the Board with good visibility of performance progress on its journey towards becoming a more responsible and sustainable business, please see at each operating company.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs are closely monitored and pages 43 to 49. are reviewed every month with the Executive Directors at operating company Board meetings.
Internal corporate responsibility structure The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors Executive Directors Operating Company Boards Group Energy Forum Group, ealth & Safety Forum Better T ogether Forums Shares best practice.
Chaired, uman Resources by Group Engineering Director by Group Engineering Stakeholder Engagement & Group Environment & Director & external health Customer Service Energy Manager & safety consultant Operational Excellence Individual operating companies Applying the principles of good governance How the Board is composed 8Le Board oJ ireGtors At the year-ending 30 June 2012 the Board comprised the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
A full list of the Directors with details of their biographies and Committee membership is given on pages 50 and 51.
All Directors were members of the Board throughout the financial year with the exception of Nick, orler who was appointed on 14 November 2011.
The Chairman holds informal meetings with the Board members in order to encourage a culture of openness.
Integrity is considered of utmost importance in the boardroom and our Non-Executive Directors challenge the Executive Directors in a way that maximises constructive debate, thereby facilitating effective decision making.
Board balanGe and independenGe The Nomination Committee regularly considers whether the Board has the appropriate range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to promote shareholders interests and govern the business effectively.
As shown in the diagram on page 58, excluding the Chairman, half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors who bring a wide range of experience and objectivity to the Boardroom.
The Executive Directors bring additional perspective to the Boards work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
Each member of the Board brings different attributes, skills and expertise to Board discussions as shown in their biographies on pages 50 to 51.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman was considered independent on his appointment.
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors, except Rupert Pennant-Rea, to be independent.
aving served on the Board for over nine years, Rupert must now be considered as not independent in accordance with the Codes criteria for independence.
com 57 Corporate governance continued The Nomination Committee regularly assess the other commitments of the Non-Executive Directors.
This year, the Committee is again satisfied there are no conicts of interest and that Balance of Non Executive and the Non-Executives Directors, particularly the Chairmen of Committees, have sufficient time to Executive Directors full their responsibilities.
Prior to any new commitments being made by Directors, agreement is sought from the Chairman.
The Board aims to ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and the appropriate balance of Board experience relative to length of tenure.
Further details of succession planning can be found in the Nomination Committees Report on page 68.
How we ensure Board effectiveness Role of the Board The Board sets the Groups strategy, vision and values, providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Group.
It regularly, prudently and effectively assesses the governance framework of the Group, reviewing internal controls and maintaining a robust system of risk management.
Each year, the Board reviews the formal Schedule of Matters reserved for its decision.
Examples of some of the key governance and business matters discussed by the Board during the year Non-Executive Chairman 14% are shown below: Independent Non-Executive Directors 43% Approving the appointment of Nick, orler and changes to Board and Committee composition Non-independent Non-Executive Director 14% Approving acquisitions of bus companies Executive Directors 29% Reviewing and agreeing Group strategy Discussing internal Board evaluation results from the previous year and agreeing objectives of external evaluation Approving Annual Report & Accounts, interim dividend, and recommending final dividend for shareholder approval The Board has delegated specic responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has Terms of Reference which detail their authority and duties.
While the Board delegates some of its responsibilities to these Committees, it still retains full responsibility for a number of key areas such as health & safety, corporate social responsibility and risk management.
Day to day management of the Group and the implementation of strategies agreed by the Board across Group companies, have been delegated to the Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management in the Group and across our businesses, both formally via monthly meetings, and less formally on a regular basis.
The Board and Management Structure can be found on page 56.
The Board believes that this infrastructure, with the right balance between local initiatives and ones that can add up for the Groups benefit, is fundamental to the success of the business.
The full Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board and Terms of Reference for the Committees can be found on the Groups corporate website, www.
With a new Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director from the start of this financial year, the main focus and time commitment of the Board have been on reviewing the Groups strategic focus.
This has included the corporate planning process and functional support plans within the new and evolving structure of performance management, leadership and behavioural frameworks.
Leadership of the Board The ofces of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately, with a clear division of responsibility, and the Board has adopted a written Statement of Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
While the Chairman provides leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness by promoting challenge and debate and managing a regular evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategies and values set by the Board.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive have an effective and co-operative working relationship.
They are supported by the Senior Independent Director who provides a sounding board to the Chairman and is an alternative point of contact for Directors and shareholders, where contact with the Chairman or Group Chief Executive is inappropriate.
58 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Roles & responsibilities Chairman: leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: ensuring adequate time is allowed for the discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues: ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to enhancing overall effectiveness: encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: and ensuring, with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Company Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure their early contribution to the Board.
Group Chief Executive: responsible for performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors: responsible for the day-to-day leadership of the executive and senior management teams: and ensuring that the Chairman is kept updated in a timely manner of issues, events and developments.
Group Finance Director maintaining strong financial management underpinned by effective financial controls: developing the Groups policies and strategy on tax, treasury, nancing, insurance and pensions: ensuring a commercial and financial focus on potential acquisitions, business case appraisal and financial planning: ensuring the appropriateness of risk management and internal controls processes and systems: supporting and advising the senior management team in their operational roles: and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors.
Senior Independent Director providing an important point of contact for shareholders in the event that they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or Chairman or for which such contact is inappropriate: helping to develop a balanced understanding on the Board of the issues and concerns of major shareholders: providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an intermediary for the other Directors as necessary: and leading a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year, without the Chairman present, where the Chairmans performance is evaluated.
Non-Executive Directors ensuring constructive challenge: helping develop proposals on strategy: scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance: ensuring the integrity of financial information: ensuring financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors: and contributing a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
Group Company Secretary Secretary to the Board and its Committees: ensuring efficient information ows within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors: facilitating induction of new Directors: assisting with any training and development needs as required: ensuring Board procedures are complied with: and regularly updating Board on corporate governance matters, legislative changes and regulatory regimes affecting the Group www.
com 59 Corporate governance continued How we ensure Board effectiveness continued Performance evaluation Board meetings The Board normally meets at least seven times during the year.
At least one of the meetings each year is dedicated to reviewing the Groups strategy.
Additional meetings are held as and when required.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Executive Directors being present.
During the year, the Chairman meets individually with each Director.
During the year ended 30 June 2012, the Board held seven scheduled meetings.
The table below External facilitator meets shows Directors attendance at scheduled meetings they were eligible to attend.
The agenda for with Company Chairman each Board meeting is set by the Chairman, in consultation with the Group Chief Executive and External facilitator meets with Group Company Secretary.
Detailed brieng papers in relation to the business to be conducted Company Secretary at each meeting are circulated to the Board at least one week before each meeting for review before meetings.
The Executive Directors and Group Company Secretary are readily available External facilitator meets with should any Board member wish to receive additional information.
Directors individually Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate and the Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
Key senior managers and advisers attend relevant parts of Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the current issues facing the business.
Minutes of all meetings are circulated promptly afterwards.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee External facilitator observes Board Sir Patrick Brown 7 7 4 4 2 2 and Committee Meetings Andrew Allner 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 External facilitator compiles findings Katherine Innes Ker 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 from interviews into a report Rupert Pennant-Rea 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 Nick, orler 4 5 3 3 2 2 External facilitator meets with Chairman and Company Secretary David Brown 7 7 2 2 Keith Down 7 7 Appointed to the Board on 14 November 2011.
Nick, orler missed one meeting due to it coinciding with an external meeting.
The external meeting had been arranged in advance of his appointment as Non-Executive Director of the Group.
e will be able to attend all Board and Committee meetings diarised for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2012.
The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that their power to authorise conicts of interest is operated in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board considers that the procedures in respect of this power, which have been properly followed, have External facilitator presents findings to Board Meeting operated effectively during the year and the conicts register was updated accordingly.
The Board is aware of its Directors other commitments and any changes to these commitments are advised Board agree Action Plan to and approved by the Board.
PerformanGe eZaluation A formal evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors is carried out on an annual basis.
The evaluation process last year concluded that the Board continued to work well and operated effectively and we have endeavoured to ensure that this has been at least maintained during the year.
Although there were not any areas of material concern highlighted, we have implemented a number of improvements that were recommended as part of the review last year.
There is Action Plan monitored now increased interaction between the Board and senior management through senior management more frequently attending Board meetings and the Non-Executive Directors visiting senior management at their local operations.
There has also been an increased focus on how the Board as a whole develops the Groups strategy and we have achieved this by developing and improving the ways in which we present and consider our strategic options.
The annual Board Strategy Meeting is a fundamental part of the process with the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors, senior managers within the business and external advisers all playing a key role.
Further work has also been undertaken to develop our risk management processes and reporting and this is explained on page 64.
All of these factors, we believe, have improved the overall effectiveness of the Board and so the Group.
60 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We consistently seek to challenge ourselves, however, and this year, in accordance with the Code, the evaluation of the Boards performance is being reviewed by an external facilitator.
This independent facilitator has no other connection with the Group.
The process being undertaken this year by the external facilitator is shown in the diagram on page 60.
Those Directors who have served on the Board for a period of at least six years are subject to a particularly rigorous review.
At the time of writing this report, the external evaluation process was ongoing and therefore full details will be published in the Annual Report next year.
Our induction programme ireGtor support, information, induGtion and deZelopment in action with Nick Horler, The Board is supplied with high quality information, presented in a form appropriate to enhance Non-Executive Director Board effectiveness.
A comprehensive Board Procedures Manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the working of the Board and its Committees, delegated authorities, the Boards proGedures manual timely provision of appropriate information and the duties and responsibilities of Directors, Instruction and information on how including standards of conduct and compliance.
the Board and its Committees operate All new Directors undertake a full induction programme either shortly before or upon joining Board minutes the Board.
For Nick, orler, this process included meeting separately with the Executive Directors An overview of discussions and and all of the key senior managers responsible for the Groups centralised functions.
Visits were decisions made at recent Board and arranged to each of the Groups operating companies to meet with the local senior management Committee meetings teams within their respective businesses locations.
Nick also met independently with both the Key supporting papers internal and external auditors and a number of key advisers to the Group.
From a governance Reading Board Reports from Executive perspective, the Group Company Secretary ensured that a comprehensive overview of the Directors and Senior Management formal procedures governing the working of the Board was provided, which included a full brieng of the Boards responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and corporate % brieng on the 'ompanys governance guidelines and included aspects such as directors duties, conicts of interest, codes goZernanGe struGture of conduct and compliance.
Copies of recent Board reports, key documents and minutes of Including relevant laws, regulations and meetings were also made available.
the UK Corporate Governance Code The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that a full induction and training programme Meetings with senior management at is provided on appointment and that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge.
roup and within operating Gompanies The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and ongoing Gaining an understanding of the familiarity with the Company in order to competently carry out their responsibilities.
In addition businesses within the Group to Board and Committee meeting attendance, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors attend the Groups annual Senior Management Conference each year.
Ongoing, director Meeting with key advisers development is further achieved through legal and best practice updates from the Group Gaining an understanding of the Groups Company Secretary, presentations from management on significant matters and external training.
relationships with the internal and external auditors and other key advisers roup 'ompan] 7eGretar] Carolyn Sephton has been Group Company Secretary since July 2006 and her biography can be found on page 51.
The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as I have found Go-Aheads Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
She reports to the Group Finance Director for all other company secretariat matters, including the management of the Groups non-rail pension induction process to be thorough arrangements.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company and informative thus far, providing Secretary and may also take independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, if they the right level of detail at a pace believe it to be necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as Directors.
that was both complementary and %ppointment re eleGtion to the Board timely in properly equipping me for New appointments to the Board are made on merit and against objective criteria, with the Groups Board and Committee due regard to the benets of diversity, including gender.
This policy, described further in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 68 and 69, was followed for the appointment meetings.
In particular, meeting of Nick, orler who joined the Board on 14 November 2011 as a new independent with senior management across Non-Executive Director.
the Group and operating companies has given me a deeper insight into the Groups operations and how these operate within the devolved business structure.
Nick Horler, Non-Executive Director www.
com 61 Corporate governance continued At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, in addition to shareholders being asked to elect Nick, orler to the Board for the first time, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Code, all Directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election.
The Board has agreed that each Director standing for re-election continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board is also confident that all its Directors have the knowledge, skills and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company in this industry.
Full biographical details for each of the Directors can be found on pages 50 and 51.
How the Company engages with its investors Relations with investors The Group recognises the importance of regular communication with all of its investors and as such is committed to maintaining an active dialogue on the Groups strategy, objectives and governance throughout the year.
The reporting calendar, which can be found at the back of this Report and on the corporate website, is dominated by the publication of the annual and half year results each year.
In addition, the interim management and trading statements provide investors with a balanced and regular understanding of the Groups operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
The Executive Directors and the Groups dedicated Investor Relations Team focus on investing in the shareholder relationship.
Key shareholder engagement activities during the financial year are shown in the timeline below.
The Executive Directors meet individually with the Groups major shareholders both institutional investors and private shareholders with significant holdings, following which feedback is provided to the Board.
The institutional shareholders also have further opportunities to make their views on reporting, strategy and governance known through follow up interviews by the Companys Brokers, feedback from which is also provided to the Board.
The Investor Relations Team provides an update to every Board meeting which includes a share register and share price analysis, KPIs and analysts reviews.
As part of the Groups investor relations programme, presentations are regularly given to brokers sales teams, which enable us to communicate our key messages to the people dealing with investors every day.
The Executive Directors always accept requests for meetings from shareholders, potential shareholders and or their representatives.
The Board regularly reviews the Share Register with a view to meeting with those key investors not currently investing in the Group.
The Board believes in promoting engagement with investors and in the coming year, the Group will hold an additional Investor Event in London.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is equal and effective communication with investors and that the Board understands the views of shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet investors for this purpose.
Any significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to the Groups business are promptly communicated to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director and the Chairmen of the Boards Key shareholder engagement activities undertaken by the Executive Directors and the Group Investor Relations Team during the financial year: Q1 July September Q2 October December Final results 2010 11 Interim management statement Monthly broker sales Half Analyst presentation and webcast Q1 2011 12 desk presentations year end Analyst conference call 2011 12 Investor roadshow London and Edinburgh Individual analyst meetings Broker Broker sales desk presentations Pre-close trading update investment conference Half year 2011 12 Individual investor Individual analyst meetings meetings 62 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Committees are also available to meet major investors on request.
The Senior Independent Director has a specic responsibility to be available to investors who have concerns, and in cases Q1 Shareholder engagement where contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed Investor roadshow to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
There were no such Following a well-attended full concerns raised this year.
year results presentation for Annual General Meeting analysts, we had a successful The principal communication with shareholders is through the Annual Report and the Annual three day investor roadshow General Meeting AGM.
The AGM is attended by all Directors and all shareholders are invited with full programmes of and encouraged to attend as it provides an opportunity to develop their understanding of the Company.
There is also the opportunity to meet informally with the Directors before and after meetings in London and the meeting.
If you have any questions you wish to register in advance of the AGM, you can send Edinburgh.
These one-to-one them to agm$go-ahead.
com or write to the Company Secretary at The Go-Ahead Group plc, sessions with our shareholders 3rd Floor, 41-51 Grey Street.
are a key component of our Full details of the business to be discussed at the AGM can be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to registered shareholders in advance of the meeting and also available on the corporate website.
Investor Relations agenda, giving us the opportunity to update on Ordinary business which is raised for consideration at the Annual General Meeting each year includes receiving the financial statements for the year, together with the Directors and Auditors historic performance as well as Reports, the Directors Remuneration Report and the final dividend: electing and re-electing future prospects for the Group.
members of the Board: and re-appointing the Companys Auditor.
Other matters included on the agenda for the Annual General Meeting may vary from year to year in accordance with the David Brown, Group Chief Executive requirements of the Company.
Corporate website Go-Aheads award winning corporate website provides a wealth of information including access to the annual and half-year reports, presentations, useful fact sheets, latest news, as well as share price, market capital and general shareholder information.
Detailed information on the Companys share capital can be found on page 79 of this Annual Report.
During the year the Group launched both a Facebook page and Twitter account to inform a wider audience about Go-Ahead news.
The Group accounts are in addition to the range of award-winning social media activity in place across our bus and rail companies which update passengers about real time service information.
The Groups Investor Relations Team will also respond to shareholder queries via enquiries$go-ahead.
For further information visit our website at www.
Q3 January March Q4 April June Half year results 2011 12 Interim management statement Individual Full year Analyst presentations and webcast Q3 2011 12 investor meetings end Individual analyst meetings 2011 12 Investor road show Monthly broker sales London and Edinburgh Pre-close trading update desk presentations Full year 2011 12 Broker investor Broker sales desk presentations Analyst conference call conference Individual investor meetings www.
com 63 Corporate governance continued How we manage the Groups risk management and internal control system Managing risk For more information on how the Group manages The Boards responsibilities risk, including a table showing a description of the For the financial year ended 30 June 2012 and up to the date of approval of this report, the key risks facing the Group, how they are mitigated, Board confirms that it has complied with provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance potential opportunities and an indication of how the Code and has established procedures that implement in full the guidance given in Internal risks are changing, please turn to pages 30 to 33.
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board recognises its responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control system and is committed to ensuring its effectiveness in every respect.
The Board is satisfied that there are procedures in place which identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks facing the Group, including social, environmental and governance risks.
A formal review of the nature and extent of the significant risks the Board is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives is undertaken at the end of each financial year.
A formal review at the half-year is also undertaken to take account of material changes and trends in the Groups risk prole.
These reviews include top-down risk assessment at Group level and bottom-up risk assessments at operating company level.
A bespoke risk categorisation and assessment model exists which is used across the Group to ensure that risks are identied and reported on a consistent basis.
A process is in place to aggregate key risks on a Group wide basis and share information across the operating companies.
The tables on pages 30 to 33 summarise the Boards assessment of the key risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance.
Board-level reporting The Board is supported by the work of the Audit Committee which has delegated responsibility from the Board for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
During the year the Audit Committee regularly reviewed reports from , the Groups internal auditors for risk management and internal controls, and P, SC, the Groups, ealth and Safety consultants.
Reports were also regularly reviewed from the external auditors, Ernst and Young, and the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups position and the Board receives regular updates on how specic risks that are assessed as material are being managed on at least a biannual basis.
Group struGture Ownership of risk identication and mitigation lies with the senior management in operating Risk structure companies where it is an integral part of day-to-day local company operations.
The Groups decentralised organisation structure enables the Executive Directors to play an active role in The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors supporting senior management in assessing and managing risks and internal controls.
Through monthly meetings, there is open and ongoing communication on risk matters which is then supported by the more formal year-end and half-year reviews.
The Executive Directors also Audit Committee communicate the objectives, risk strategy and policy of the Group.
The Groups structure has the benefit of enabling it to respond quickly to new, emerging or changing risks, with risk management information shared across the Group as well as reported upwards.
Executive Internal Internal audit Audit Directors The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to  on a rolling twelve month contract, with overall responsibility and direction being retained by the Board.
The internal audit function provides assurance over the effectiveness of key internal Operating Company Boards controls as identied as part of the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings with local management, the Internal Auditor reports to the Executive Directors at least six times per year and to the Audit Committee at least three times per year.
During the course of the year, the co-ordination between the internal and external auditors has been improved to enable increased reliance on the work of the internal audit function.
64 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FinanGial reporting and planning proGesses In accordance with the Groups policies and procedures, there are formally dened lines of financial reporting responsibility, delegated authorities, capital investment approval policies and clear operating processes.
Monthly reporting of financial information to the Board encompasses profit and loss, cashow and balance sheet information and key operating ratios.
The annual budgeting and strategic planning process includes regular re-forecasting of results, taking into account key risks and opportunities.
Adherence to the Groups policies and procedures by finance teams throughout the Group ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting pack by all Group entities ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
There is regular reporting to the Board on specic matters including safety, insurance, pensions, tax and treasury management.
Business planning encompasses due diligence and risk assessments where businesses are being acquired or divested and all projects and partnerships are entered into taking into account an appropriate risk-reward balance.
ComplianGe management During the year, an extensive review of the Groups Policy and Procedures Manual the Manual was carried out in conjunction with the internal auditors.
The Manual is designed to reinforce the Boards high standards and values with respect to corporate governance, internal control processes and risk management.
All operating companies must adhere to this Manual and certify annually that they have done so.
In addition, the Board gains added assurance that there are effective risk management and internal control systems in place from the Groups core management structure and the operating, financial, risk management, and compliance reporting processes.
ealth and safety reporting proGesses, ealth and safety standards have been established across all operating companies and key performance indicators are closely monitored at monthly operating company Board meetings.
The Group Chief Executive reports on health and safety, which includes key performance indicators, at each Board meeting.
:histle blowing anti-bribery proGedures The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness and accountability and a whistle blowing policy has been issued to all operating companies to ensure a consistent approach across the organisation.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be taken.
Any matters of signicance are reported to the Audit Committee.
During the year, no issues of signicance were raised.
The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act 2010 the Bribery Act and procedures have been established to ensure that compliance is achieved.
Any issues arising under the Bribery Act are dealt with promptly and appropriately by the Group Compliance officer.
Training has been provided to the Board of Directors and senior management who are in turn responsible for ensuring their staff comply with the provisions of the Bribery Act.
Training is refreshed on a regular basis.
Any breach of the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially justifying dismissal.
com 65 Corporate governance continued The Committees in Action The Board has established the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to deal with specic delegated aspects of the Groups affairs.
The responsibilities of each Committee are determined by its Terms of Reference which are summarised in the following Committee Reports and are also available in full on the corporate website or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
The Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed and updated, if appropriate, annually.
No person other than the Committee Chairman and members is entitled to be present at a meeting of these Committees.
Others may attend upon invitation only.
Andrew Allner Committee Chairman Audit Committee Report The Committee has worked closely with both the external and internal Members 1 Andrew Allner auditors this year, with all parties working better together to maximise Senior Independent Director the effectiveness of the audit activities.
The Committee has also continued to improve the effective management of risk and internal controls Katherine Innes Ker Independent Non-Executive Director throughout the business so as to help support the delivery of the 2 Groups strategic objectives.
Rupert Pennant-Rea Non-Executive Director Meetings During the year, the Committee met four times excluding meetings held to review its 3 Nick Horler effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
At least once a year, the NonIndependent Non-Executive Director Executive Directors meet with the external Auditor, without the Executive Directors being 1.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered present.
Members individual attendance at Committee meetings can be found on page 60.
Accountants England & Wales and having previously held the position of Group Finance Key roles and responsibilities Director at another listed company between 2004 and 2007, Andrew Allner has recent and Key responsibilities of the Committee include monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and relevant financial experience as recommended the accounting judgements adopted within the reporting.
The Audit Committee oversees the by the Code.
Groups relationship with the external Auditor, including reviewing the Groups non-audit 2. aving served on the Board for over nine engagement policy and regularly considering whether a tender of the contract would be years and in accordance with the Code, Rupert Pennant-Rea must now be considered as appropriate.
Reviewing the Groups risk management and internal control system and reporting not independent.
to the Board is also a responsibility of the Committee, as is advising the Board on whether the 3.
Nick, orler was appointed on 14 November 2011. annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, and providing the information necessary to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Composition compliant with Provision C. 3.1 of the Code The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available on the corporate website at www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Committee Secretary The Audit Committees activities 2012 Carolyn Sephton The main activities undertaken during the financial year included: Group Company Secretary receiving and reviewing reports from management relating to the annual and half year profit gures and statements, monitoring statutory audit of the annual consolidated Group and Meetings also regularly Parent Company financial statements, reviewing the effectiveness of the financial reporting, attended, by invitation, by: the controls in force and the key judgemental areas at the half year and year end to ensure Sir Patrick Brown Company Chairman the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders: David Brown Group Chief Executive Keith Down Group Finance Director receiving and reviewing reports from the Groups external and internal auditors, including Internal Auditors representative s health and safety and information system specialists: External Auditors representative s reviewing the relationship with the external and internal auditors, including their terms of engagement, remuneration, independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and qualication: introducing a new external audit rm to undertake audits in the Groups smaller operating companies to reduce reliance on the principal external auditor and to reduce costs: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control policies, systems and procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risk, as outlined on pages 64 and 65, including receiving and reviewing risk registers from Group operating companies, and ensuring improved consistency in reporting: 66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: Other safeguards in place to reviewing the whistle blowing financial and Anti-Bribery procedures in place across ensure auditor independence: the Group: The Committee considers every improving the co-ordination between the internal and external auditors so as to increase relationship between the Group reliance on the internal audit work, improve efficiencies and reduce overall costs: and and the audit rm.
working with the Remuneration Committee, to review Executive Directors performance The Committee seeks periodic versus budget for performance related bonus purposes.
reassurance that the Auditor and Auditor independence their staff have no financial, business, The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware of the situations employment, family or other personal which may give rise to the impairment of auditor independence.
The Audit Committee carefully relationship with the Group which considers the objectivity of the Auditor on a regular basis in relation to both the audit process could affect their independence and the relationship with the Company.
Policy on the engagement of the Auditor for non-audit services The Committee seeks details In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has, as part of of policies and processes from their Terms of Reference, the following policy for the provision of non-audit services by the the Auditor regarding monitoring external Auditor.
compliance with APB Ethical Standards for Auditors: requirements that the Auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it can be regarding rotation of audit staff: demonstrated that the engagement will not impair independence, is a natural extension and maintaining independence.
of their audit work or there are other overriding reasons that make them the most suitably qualied to undertake the work: Any key audit partner of Ernst & that the Auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services to the Group, such Young LLP shall not be employed as internal audit, and litigation support: the full list of which can be found in the Committees by Group in a management position Terms of Reference: unless a period of two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the that the provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax services if the relevant audit.
fees exceed 250k are subject to approval by the Audit Committee: and The Auditor is required to periodically that the ratio of the external Auditors audit to non-audit fees during the year, as a proportion assess whether they are independent of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review by the Committee.
of the Group, in their own During the financial year, the principal external Auditors fees were 0.5m 2011: 0.6m.
addition non-audit fees of 0.5m 2011: 0.2m were payable to the Auditor.
In comparison, The Committee monitors the non-audit fees paid to other providers during the financial year were 0.3m 2011: 0.2m.
level of fees that the Group pays in Approval was given for the provision of taxation services and work on corporate finance proportion to the overall fee income projects and acquisitions where the Committee were satisfied that the external auditor was of the relevant audit rm branch.
able to provide better value for money without compromise to their independence.
Following audit partner rotation last As part of a value for money review several subsidiary companies appointed Grant Thornton year, the audit partner will serve as as their auditors.
Total fees to Grant Thornton during the financial year were 0.1m 2011: nil.
the Senior Statutory Auditor for five Grant Thornton received no non-audit fees 2011: nil.
years, subject to the Committees annual review, retiring by rotation Appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor before the 2015 16 audit.
The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external Auditor and their remuneration.
During the year, There are no contractual obligations the Committee has reviewed the external Auditors terms of engagement and their level restricting the Groups choice of of remuneration.
auditors and no auditor liability agreement has been entered into.
The current EU proposals for mandatory audit rm rotation are being considered by the Audit Committee.
Whilst the audit partner within Ernst and Young has rotated every five years, in accordance with EU requirements, the Group has not tendered the provision of its audit services in recent years.
The Committee has carefully considered whether a tender for the external audit contract would be appropriate at this time, however, is satisfied with the objectivity and independence of the Auditor and has concluded that re-appointing Ernst & Young as the Groups Auditor will allow the quality and effectiveness of the external audit to be maintained.
The Auditor will be recommended to shareholders for reappointment at the 2012 AGM.
com 67 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Report This year the Committee has spent a considerable amount of time reviewing Board and Committee composition and succession planning.
This has been to ensure that we continue to have the appropriate range and balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
Meetings During the year the Committee met twice, excluding interviews with potential candidates and as part of its annual performance evaluation.
The Committee meets as needed to deal with necessary assignments and its responsibilities as listed below, in accordance with the needs of the Company and best practice in corporate governance.
Members individual attendance can be Sir Patrick Brown found on page 60.
Committee Chairman Key roles and responsibilities Key responsibilities of the Committee include leading the process for board appointments: Members making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size, and composition of the Board Sir Patrick Brown and its Committees: reviewing expected and actual time commitment of the Non-Executive Company Chairman Directors: succession planning: and, on appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, ensuring they receive a formal letter of appointment, including roles, responsibilities and expected Andrew Allner time commitment.
Senior Independent Director The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the corporate website at www.
com Katherine Innes Ker or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Independent Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committees activities 2012 1 Nick Horler The main activities undertaken during the financial year included: Independent Non-Executive Director reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including the balance of skills, David Brown knowledge and experience and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors: Group Chief Executive making recommendations to the Board, including the appointment of a new Senior 1.
Nick, orler replaced Rupert Pennant-Rea as an independent member of the Committee following Independent Director and independent Non-Executive Director: his appointment on 14 November 2011. recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of Committees, including Composition compliant with Provision the appointment of a new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: and B.
2.1 of the Code reviewing the time requirements of the Non-Executive Directors and, using the performance evaluation process, assessing whether each Non-Executive Director has committed enough Committee Secretary time to fulll their duties: Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary considering the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors at the end of their term of ofce and recommending to the Board the Directors for re-election by the shareholders: Meetings also regularly review of regulatory developments including making recommendations to the Board on the attended, by invitation, by: Groups policy on diversity in response to Lord Davies report.
Rupert Pennant-Rea Gender diversity Non-Executive Director Our Board currently has 14% female representation and including our Group Company Secretary, 25% female representation.
This is slightly less than disclosed last year 17% female representation and 28% including the Group Company Secretary because, although Nick, orler was appointed to replace Rupert Pennant-Rea as independent Non-Executive Director, Rupert Board gender diversity will continue to serve on the Board as a non-independent Non-Executive Director to provide continuity and support following the changes to the executive team last year.
Male Female The Board will aspire to maintain the current levels of gender diversity going forward, however, our foremost priority is to ensure that Go-Ahead continues to have the strongest possible leadership and we will appoint only the most appropriate candidates.
68 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Appointment of a new Non-Executive Director As previously reported, Nick, orler was appointed on 14 November 2011 to replace Rupert Pennant-Rea as an independent Non-Executive Director.
e was chosen for his extensive experience in sales and marketing in regulated markets within both the UK and North America.
The Nomination Committee followed the process in the diagram below for the appointment of Nick, orler.
The Board is satisfied that the process was rigorous and transparent and that Nick was appointed based on merit, against objective criteria, with due regard for the benets of diversity.
Process for appointment Assess balance of skills and diversity to establish criteria for new appointment Engage external recruitment consultant to undertake search for suitable candidates Interview selected candidates Discuss potential candidates, taking into consideration factors such as: Specic experience Knowledge, skills and diversity Other significant commitments, for assessing independence and available time Put forward shortlist of candidates to wider Board Company Chairman and Group Chief Executive undertake final interviews with candidates Recommendation to the Board for approval of selected candidate www.
com 69 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Report I am delighted to have taken on the role as the Committees new Chairman and would like to thank Rupert for his time and contribution as former Chairman of the Committee.
Following the extensive review of policy last year, our main focus this year has been ensuring that the reward arrangements in place remain appropriate.
Meetings During the year the Committee met four times, excluding meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
Members individual attendance can be found on page 60.
Katherine Innes Ker also met separately with the Group Company Secretary for a tailored induction upon appointment as Chairman of the Committee.
This Katherine Innes Ker included a brieng on the Committees Terms of Reference, remuneration policy, the BIS Committee Chairman consultation and guidelines on executive remuneration from the Code and representative bodies including the Association of British Insurers ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds Members NAPF.
Katherine also met with the Groups independent remuneration consultants, ewitt Katherine Innes Ker New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon, ewitt Limited.
Independent Non-Executive Director Key roles and responsibilities Sir Patrick Brown Key responsibilities of the Committee include determining the fees of the Chairman and Company Chairman annually reviewing the remuneration policy for Executive Directors including the balance Andrew Allner between the xed and performance-related elements of pay, benefit plans and compensation Senior Independent Director payments.
The Committee also reviews reports from the Group Chief Executive on salary and bonus arrangements for the senior management of each operating company and senior Group Rupert Pennant-Rea personnel, taking into consideration company performance versus budget.
Non-Executive Director The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the corporate website at www.
com 1 Nick Horler or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Independent Non-Executive Director The Remuneration Committees activities 2012 1.
Nick, orler replaced Rupert Pennant-Rea The main activities undertaken during the financial year included: as an independent member of the Committee following his appointment on 14 November 2011. reviewing the continued appropriateness of the remuneration policy as implemented last year: Composition compliant with Provision determining the new awards to be made to the Executive Directors under the Long Term D. 2.1 of the Code Incentive Plan: reviewing whether any of the award granted to the former Group Chief Executive under the Committee Secretary Long Term Incentive Plan in October 2009 should vest following the end of the three year Carolyn Sephton performance period: Group Company Secretary reviewing the Remuneration Committees Report and Directors Remuneration Reports for the Annual Report: and Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: working with the Audit Committee, reviewing Executive Directors performance versus budget David Brown for performance related bonus purposes.
Group Chief Executive Review of remuneration policy The Committee at least annually reviews the appropriateness of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee has reviewed the changes to the remuneration policy introduced last year and, mindful of the current economic conditions, remains satisfied that there is a clear link between performance and the pay received so as to reect the Groups corporate goals and the shareholders best interests.
Full details of the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 71.
Compliance with the Code The Committee has reviewed and confirms compliance with all aspects of the Principles, Provisions and Schedule A of the Code on reward-related matters.
70 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
