greeneking eeneking.. co co. uk.
uk 29 29 COrpOrATe SOCIAl reSpONSIbIlITy As one of the leading pub and beer businesses in the UK, it is vital that we operate a sustainable and responsible business, and we take themaintenance and delivery of aneffective social responsibility programme very seriously.
We continue to make good progress in our CSR goals despite setting ever more challenging targets for ourbusiness.
Accreditation to the ISO 14001 standard This year our focus was on a number The environment Our work on reducing our impact on the confirms that the system effectively meets all ofpriorities including various legislation and good practice requirements.
environment continues to focus on reducing commitments made in connection our overall energy consumption, our water withthe governments Public Health In our Retail division we have continued use, how we deal with our waste and on reducing our emissions.
totest a range of energy saving initiatives Responsibility Deal.
Details ofour including the installation of voltage progress on these priorities, together The year has seen an increase in the size and optimisers, the use ofLED lighting, above with a number of other highlights, ground cellar cooling systems and better number of our pubs and an increase in the areset out here.
If you would like amount of beer we have brewed and yet boiler controls.
wehave still made excellent progress fulldetails of our CSR policies and inreducing our overall emissions.
Finally, we are delighted to haveagain been practices, please visit the social awarded the Carbon TrustStandard, which responsibility section ofour website, We have also continued to improve our demonstrates our commitment to cutting our www.
To attain the standard for environmental performance in other areas.
Improved efficiencies in our Brewing & the second time we were able to demonstrate a genuine reduction inourCO emissions by Brands division have led to a reduction in the 2 average amount of water required to produce 6.3% across all our operations.
our beer, from 4.32 barrels of water per barrel Our key environmental data is set out on the of beer last year to 3.85 barrels this year.
The scope of our Environmental Management System has been expanded and now covers allour Bury St Edmunds production sites.
Our environmental priorities this year were: A reduction in CO emissions in A reduction in the amount of A reduction in water usage in 2 our existing estate of breweries, wastesent to landfill with a target ourexisting estate of breweries, offices and managed houses on ofensuring that 80% of waste offices and managed houses on alike-for-like basis with a target generated in our Retail sites is alike-for-like basis with a target ofa4% reduction for the next notsent to landfill by the end this year ofinstalling meters across financial year.
ofthecalendar year 2011. ourmanaged houses and setting reduction targets.
Our total energy consumption was Through on-site separation and down 2.9% compared with last year segregation of glass, card and dry mixed Water usage has fallen by around 3% andour CO emissions were down 1.8%.
recyclables, over 85% of the waste from during the last year, despite an increase 2 our Retail pubs, restaurants and hotels in the number of managed houses.
In addition, the amount of CO used 2 isnow not sent to landfill.
relative to 100,000 of revenue in The installation of water meters in our ourRetail and Brewing & Brands Of those, 172 sites are diverting 100% of Retail division has begun and 73 sites divisions was down from 16.67 tonnes their waste away from landfill, and 72% now have them installed.
Work to install to14.68 tonnes per 100,000 of revenue.
arediverting over 80% of their waste the remainder will continue, provided awayfrom landfill.
that the water companies agree, as early indications from sites where meters We also collected 19% more used cooking oil have been installed suggest that than last year for recycling into bio-diesel.
considerable saving can be made if leaks or high usage sites can be identified and issues addressed.
Business review 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
indd 29 25 07 2012 10:55:30 30 30 Business review COrpOrATe SOCIAl reSpONSIbIlITy CONTINueD Environmental data uNITS Fy 2010 11 Fy 2011 12 DIFFereNCe % ChANge Natural gas MWh 210,094 197,333 -12,761 -6.1 Other fossil fuels MWh 30,472 24,920 -5,552 -18.2 Electricity MWh 171,877 178,174 6,327 3.7 Energy for operations MWh 412,443 400,427 -11,986 -2.9 Vehicles MWh 29,219 31,099 1,880 6.4 Total energy vehicles and operations MWh 441,662 431,526 -10,106 -2.3 Total CO emissions Tonnes 146,036 143,389 -2,647 -1.8 2 3 Water consumption M 2,126,919 2,049,826 -77,093 -3.6 This year we added more salads to our Food safety and supply Stay safe with Safe Start This has been a key priority for us this summer menu.
We have highlighted dishes This year saw the introduction of a new that areunder 700 calories on our Locals year, having committed to two of the SafeStart initiative in our leased and tenanted governments key targets in the Public menus and have shown lower calorie options division.
The Safe Start pack comprises a on our Hungry Horse menu with a heart Health Responsibility Deal: complete set of statutory tests including gas, icon.
We are currently working on dishes electricity and fire safety which are carried under 600 calories for our next menu cycle outbefore the new licensee takes over the pub.
Compliance with the governments and continue to work on developing lower Licensees are now also required to pass an calorie or healthier dishes.
For our Premium salt targets for the end of 2012. online Safe Start exam before taking on a pub.
Locals menus we are looking to introduce healthier ingredients such as wholewheat We have made considerable progress Awards pasta, oven baked fishcakes, chickpeas, beans inmeeting the 2012 salt targets and are Once again we continued our good record and lentils aswell as healthy fats.
continually reviewing our products ofreceiving awards for our health and safety against them.
However, some products, practices in our Brewing & Brands division.
Training materials were created and sent to such as bacon, require the manufacturers allour kitchens regarding gluten and, whilst to develop a technical solution in order RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Award wehave a number of dishes that contain no for them to meet the standards whilst still RoSPA Managing Occupational Road Risk gluten, due to stringent labelling requirements, maintaining the taste, quality and shelf Award MORR Gold award we are not able to call these gluten free.
British Safety Council International The health and safety of our staff SafetyAward The removal of artificial trans and customers fatsfrom our products by the Responsible retailing endof 2011.
Our principal commitment during Under the governments Public the year was to continually strive All products within our core estate have Health Responsibility Deal to identify and reduce health and been reformulated to ensure artificial wecommitted to ensuring that safety risks and to improve the transfats have been removed.
effective action was taken in all safety ofour premises.
premises to reduce and prevent We are now commencing our third Work continues in both these areas to under-age sales of alcohol yearof external food safety and hygiene ensurethat the businesses we acquired primarily through rigorous compliance audits in our Retail division, overthe last 18months are also able to application of Challenge 21 tasking the business to deliver an average meetthese commitments.
Thisis from a base at end of year one of 79%, progressing to We have been working with suppliers Scores on the doors 83% in year two.
As the programme of audits continues by todevelop and implement new software, which not only prompts our employees Environmental Health Officers across the UK weare proud to now have 209 of our toconfirm on every transaction that the This year we also joined with Reading customer is over 18 but also now displays Retail pubs rated good or excellent by Borough Council to form a new Primary thescheme.
a date of birth 18 years ago so that staff Authority Partnership PAP, to create a can see at a glance if someone is old single point of contact for consultation with enough to purchase alcohol.
councils on health and safety issues across Healthy eating Eating Inn has launched a range of low-calorie all of our pubs.
The agreement enables us We are also rolling out a new training todeal with Reading Borough Council on cocktails starting at just 48 calories, introduced package across the whole business.
skinny coffees and is also offering low-calorie allhealth and safety issues rather than with Allnew staff are required to sign a each individual local authority, of which ros wine.
confirmation that they have completed there are over 400, thereby cutting red tape.
this training before they are authorised to It has already resulted inareduction in the sell alcohol.
We continue to use in-house number of enforcement letters that we receive.
Greene King plc Annual report 2012 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
uk 31 31 Best Bar None and Pub Watch schemes Quality standards for our beers We said that we would include a 172 of our managed pubs belong to Our Bury brewery site has been awarded section on health and wellbeing recognised Pub Watch schemes and a thehighest grade for the second consecutive ofemployees within our annual further22 have or are currently signed year of unannounced audits with the British uptoBest Bar None award schemes.
Our Belhaven brewery also report, including details of our has a similar level of award with pre-planned staffsickness absence rate.
This means that our beer is produced In local communities we At this time it is not possible for us to with the highest quality and food committed to providing support provide reliable sickness and absence rates safetystandards.
for schemes appropriate for although this is something we areworking towards with the planned introduction local areas that wish to use them The engagement and wellbeing ofanew HRsystem during2014.
to address issues around social ofour staff andhealth harms, and will act During 2011 we included a health and together to improve joined up This year our key priority was wellbeing question within our annual working between schemes toachieve an improvement employee survey, the results of which operating in local areas.
arebeing followed up in team meetings.
inemployee engagement demonstrated by our annual We see Best Bar None and National We undertook to implement attitude survey with a target PubWatch as being the routes through some basic measures for which we might do this, and have toachieve 74% engagement encouraging healthier staff identified all of our pubs, restaurants across ourteams.
andhotels covered by a Best Bar None restaurants, vendingoutlets We achieved an improvement in scheme, promoted the benefits internally andbuffets.
employee engagement, increasing it of the awards and set a target of 90% We provide a staff restaurant at our head from67% to 71%, just shy of our target signing up to participate in the next office in Bury St Edmunds which ensures 74%.
We also saw an increase of 15% available awards.
77 of our sites are that staff based or visiting there have inrespondents vs. the previous year eligible for inclusion in the scheme theopportunity to eat freshly prepared withatotal of 65% of the business andall will sign up for the next round healthy meals each day.
We are looking at making registration for the scheme easier for There is a good availability and selection Action plans are in place across the ourhouse manager by producing, where offruit and vegetables within our staff business as we continue our work to possible, downloadable templates and restaurant.
All food prepared uses no trans movethe employee engagement score documents on our intranet as well as fats, has low salt content and uses low closer to our goal.
talking to Best Bar None about how to calorie products such as light mayonnaise make the requirements of the scheme and skimmed milk where appropriate.
more uniform across the country.
Three of our other priorities for this year We have been in discussion with Best Bar related to the health and wellbeing of our None and National PubWatch to explore staff, and once again reflect our commitment how we might work together in future to the governments Public Health and what scope there is for supporting Responsibility Deal: new schemes and start ups.
No decisions on funding have yet been made.
We committed to increasing physical activity in the workplace.
Last year a number of our pubs were Our work in this area is still in its early presented with Best Bar None awards stages but we are working with Healthy including the Twa Tams in Perth which Ambitions, Suffolk to promote the gained a Gold award and went on to importance of health and wellbeing to represent us in the finals of Scotlands our employees by raising awareness of BestBar Noneawards where they also health issues, running activities to engage wonthe innovation award.
our employees and offering tips and advice, principally at our head office, and Our team at the Peacock in Nottingham won via our intranet, which has a dedicated both their category and the overall title of Healthy Ambitions section to provide Best Bar None in Nottingham.
And our team useful information and signposts for at the Rudds Arms in Middlesborough was ourstaff to empower them to adopt awarded Best Bar None, Community Pub healthy lifestyles.
andoverall Best Bar None for Teesside.
indd 31 25 07 2012 10:55:30 32 32 Business review COrpOrATe SOCIAl reSpONSIbIlITy CONTINueD Retaining, developing First class training Macmillan Cancer Support Our Local Pubs HR team was the winner andattracting talent Since the year end we have oftheBest Licensee Induction Programme Apprenticeships launched our new national Managed Estate at the 2011 BII National Last year Greene King signed up to Industry Training Awards.
The award isgiven partnership with Macmillan participate in the governments new to the entry which best demonstrates training Cancer Support to help improve apprenticeship scheme, starting with our excellence and theeffective use ofresources Retail business.
At our financial year end we the lives of people affected by toachieve measurable results, andrecognises had 1,549 apprentices in learning across our cancer.
We hope to raise 1m those people and organisations which create Retail business and a further 427 who had overthe next three years to help success through training and development.
completed their programme and were still Macmillan provide support to working with us.
This is almost 10% ofour people living with cancer, every Support for our tenants entire workforce.
The money raised Induction training Our apprenticeship programme has now During the year our Pub Partners business will help fund essential information been extended to our Brewing & Brands refreshed its induction training for new services, emotional support, expert business.
Seven members of the customer licensees.
The enhanced training takes the medical care and financial help for sales team are already working towards their form of a four-day residential course and people living with cancer aswell apprenticeship qualifications and a further nowincludes a new Retail Excellence module astheir family and carers.
11new apprenticeships have been created in alongside the award winning Go for Growth warehouse & distribution and engineering.
training which has been extended to two days.
Cellar management is held separately at the Greene King specialist cellar management Developing management talent training facility.
Licensees and their staff also This year twelve of our business have access to online training modules on development managers were awarded their every aspect of running a pub.
Post Graduate Diploma in Multi-Site Retail Management from Birmingham City Business School.
The programme, which Stay on track focuses on multi-site leadership, takes Demonstrating the success of our trainingand twelve months to complete and was other support for our tenants, PubPartners developed by Birmingham exclusively was awarded the Tenant TrackPub Company forGreene King.
A further six managers of the year award after receiving the highest joined the programme in May this year.
satisfaction ratings against ourcompetitors ina survey of five hundredtenants.
As part of our commitment to develop from within, twelve Belhaven team members also Charitable support graduated from Belhavens Management This year our managed pubs, hotels and Development Programme.
Now in its third restaurants raised a massive 325,000 for year, the scheme has produced 36 graduates charities close to their hearts.
Our Brewing in three years, of which 28 are still in the & Brands divisions Annual Charity Ball business and all of whom have taken on tookplace in May and raised 22,000 for orare due to take on more senior roles.
Bury St Edmunds-based drug and alcohol rehabilitation charity Focus12.
Apprenticeships As youth unemployment broke through the1million mark, celebrity chef MarcoPierre White took time out of his own kitchen to back our apprenticeship scheme.
White, a former apprentice himself, helped officially launch our Discovery Apprenticeship programme withamasterclass cookery demonstration to celebratethe achievements of some of the first apprentices to qualify.
uk 33 33 CurreNT yeAr prIOrITIeS Our priorities for this yearare: Salt targets We remain committed to the governments salt targets for the end of 2012.
Menu information We will extend our work on providing calorie, fat, sugar and salt levels in all ourdishes, allergen information and information about dishes that are preparedwith ingredients free from glutento all our individual pub websites toassist our customers who have foodissues, intolerances or are simply interested in learning more about our food.
Responsible retailing In local communities we will provide support for schemes appropriate for local areas that wish to use them to address issues around social and health harms, andwill act together to improve joined up working between schemes operating in local areas.
Preventing under-age We commit to continuing to ensure that effective action is taken in all premises to drinking reduce and prevent under-age sales of alcohol primarily through rigorous application ofChallenge 21 and Challenge25.
Health and safety We will continue to strive to identify and reduce health and safety risks and toimprove the safety of our premises.
Reducing CO We are aiming for a reduction in CO emissions in our existing estate of breweries, 2 2 offices and Retail pubs, hotels and restaurants with improving the ratio of CO 2 emissions relative to revenue in our Retail and Brewing & Brands divisions from 14.68tonnes CO per 100,000 of revenue to around 14.4 tonnes.
2 Reducing waste Our aim is an ongoing reduction in the amount of waste sent to landfill and at the same time we have committed to participate fully in the voluntary Food Service and Hospitality Agreement drawn up by WRAP on behalf of the government, which aims to reduce food waste, optimise packaging and increase recycling rates.
Reducing water usage We aim to achieve a reduction in water usage in our existing estate of breweries, offices and Retail sites on a like-for-like basis with a target this year of a 2.5% reduction.
Improving employee We are aiming to improve employee engagement demonstrated by our annual engagement attitude survey with a target to achieve 74% engagement across our teams.
Increasing physical We will continue to increase physical activity in the workplace, for example through activity modifying the environment, promoting workplace champions and removing barriers to physical activity during the working day.
Charitable support We will endeavour to raise, through fundraising and events, 1m for MacmillanCancer Support inthethreeyears to 2015. Business review 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
