| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 18 Social responsibility overview Our commitment to social responsibility is deep-rooted and we put people, communities and values at the heart of our business.
In 2010 we set a stretching aspiration to achieve a 25 per cent reduction in our carbon footprint, on a per shop basis, by 2015.
We have continued to make reductions in our footprint despite introducing more shop equipment, extending trading hours days and expanding our wholesale business.
In 2012 we achieved a 3.5 per cent reduction, bringing our combined reduction against our 2010 base year to 8.9 per cent.
We are proud to have been officially certified with the Carbon Trust Standard, in recognition of our work on carbon efficiency and the good carbon management practices we have introduced into Greggs.
How we manage social responsibility Our commitment to social responsibility is deep-rooted.
This can be traced back to the establishment of the Greggs 220 Foundation in 1987 by Ian Gregg, and successive Chief Executives have Breakfast Clubs open in 2012 REDUCING CO2 continued to demonstrate this strong YEAR ON YEAR commitment to the role that the business should play in the community.
We are delighted that Greggs has We aim to operate in a socially and successfully achieved certification to the environmentally responsible way.
We In 2008 we established a Steering Group Carbon Trust Standard, demonstrating do this by putting people, communities to coordinate our social responsibility a real commitment to reducing its carbon and values at the heart of our business.
Chaired by the Company impact from the start of the assessment This means: Secretary, the Steering Group comprises period in 2010.
By taking action to reduce the Social Responsibility Manager and the emissions from its stores, bakeries, t Developing our 20,000 people, ensuring five members of the Operating Board, and transport Greggs is taking its place we work together as a united team and including the Chief Executive.
In considering amongst the carbon leaders on the high share in the rewards for making Greggs the impacts our operations have on various street, as well as setting an example for its a great place to work.
stakeholders, the Steering Group identified employees, stakeholders and customers.
t Giving our customers quality fresh four key areas of focus, each of which is Tom Delay, Chief Executive, bakery food at affordable prices.
championed by an Operating Board member.
Carbon Trust t Operating bakeries and shops safely for both our people and customers.
Reducing our impact on the world Going forward we will bring our carbon t Minimising the impacts our operations around us metric into line with benchmarking have on the environment.
Our operations impact on the local and measures used by external organisations t Making a difference to the lives of people wider environment in various ways, from such as the Carbon Disclosure Project.
in our local communities, particularly energy and water usage to waste and Our carbon will now be measured in those from disadvantaged groups.
As a growing business tonnes per m turnover.
On this basis our we have a duty to manage our resource historical performance remains broadly in needs and we have measured our direct line with the previous per shop measure.
carbon footprint for the past three years.
Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19 are pleased that we doubled the number Making a difference A great place to work of retail units achieving our top health to our local communities Our values are an integral part of our and safety rating.
Greggs has grown successfully through business they define our ethos and the continued support of our customers.
culture and we feel they make Greggs Quality, fresh bakery food As a successful business we believe we different from other businesses.
These our customers can trust have a responsibility to help those who values are incorporated into induction, As bakers, retailers and wholesalers, are less fortunate than ourselves and training and communications at all levels of trust in our food is vital to our success.
we have a long history of supporting our the Company and our people use them to Customers are becoming more aware of local communities.
guide business decisions on a daily basis.
health issues and we provide in-store and web nutritional information for our national We are proud that we continue to donate This year we created over 750 new retail lines.
Nutritional information for our local at least one per cent of our pre-tax profits jobs, welcoming these people into the lines will be published in 2013, along with 650,000 in 2012 to the Greggs Greggs family.
Our people are critical to the continued roll-out of calorie information Foundation, enabling them to make the success of our business and key to at point of purchase.
We have also launched grants of over 1.4 million to groups making Greggs a great place to work.
healthier options into shops to help and individuals in need during 2012.
We operate profit share, share save and customers choose a more balanced diet.
share incentive schemes to ensure they This donation to the Foundation forms an are valued and rewarded for their hard We have undertaken work on reducing the integral part of our community strategy and work, and in 2012 5.8 million in profit salt and fat content in our own produced is complemented by our commitment to: share was distributed to eligible employees.
Recipe development for our savoury range has seen the salt and fat t Childrens Learning: Our Breakfast We also operate a give as you earn content of the pastry reduce by 50 per cent Club programme now provides over payroll scheme and a volunteering and 15 per cent respectively.
Our sandwich two million free healthy breakfasts programme to allow our people to range has also undergone recipe each year to disadvantaged children personally put something back into their development with oil in mayonnaise in 220 primary schools, providing 500 local communities.
We are proud that reducing from 50 per cent to 40 per cent, parents and carers with volunteering a total of 460 volunteering days were and we are working towards achieving opportunities.
donated by our people in 2012. a 0.3g salt reduction per sandwich.
t Disadvantaged People: Our fundraising enabled us to donate 1 million to BBC Our annual Employee Opinion Survey Customers are also taking a greater interest Children in Need for the second year in gives all our people the opportunity to in sustainability and food provenance and a row, as well as raising an estimated provide feedback.
We achieved a similar the credentials of our food are becoming 140,000 for the Royal British Legions engagement score in 2012 to the previous increasingly important.
year, a good performance given integrated business, producing our own t Diversity and Workplace the difficult trading year and food for sale in our own shops, we know Opportunities: We made it is a solid platform on which exactly what ingredients go into our food and a 100,000 investment in to improve in 2013.
It is really where these ingredients are sourced from.
youth employability work important that our people believe in partnership with the they have the opportunity to We have removed the last artificial flavour Princes Trust and contribute their views on issues from our food and we are proud that all Tomorrows People.
that affect them and we are our own manufactured products are free This was complemented pleased to have moved from added artificial colours and flavours, by work on employability forward in this area in 2012. hydrogenated vegetable oils, added trans skills for disadvantaged Our next survey is planned fats and genetically modified ingredients.
groups, including the for quarter four in 2014.
Our Ethical Sourcing Policy also ensures provision of 108 work that our purchasing decisions are made placements and delivery We are committed to as sustainably, ethically and responsibly of employability skills providing a safe environment as possible.
training for more than for our people and customers.
130 individuals through We are disappointed that we The following pages summarise our social Low Newton Prison, did not achieve our target to responsibility performance in 2012 and Northumbria Probation reduce reportable accidents present our targets and objectives for 2013.
Service and Deerbolt and our focus on reduction Young Offenders Institution.
