| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 62 Notes to the consolidated accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2012 2011: 52 weeks ended 31 December 2011 continued Significant accounting policies continued m Share capital i Repurchase of share capital When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares that are held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
ii Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
n Employee share ownership plan The Group and Parent Company accounts include the assets and related liabilities of the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
In both the Group and Parent Company accounts the shares held by the EBT are stated at cost and deducted from total equity.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due.
ii Defined benefit plans The Group and Companys obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated by estimating the amount of the future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and any unrecognised past service costs, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group and Company recognise actuarial gains and losses in full, in the year in which they occur, in the statement of changes in equity.
iii Share-based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
For options granted before 7 November 2002 the recognition and measurement principles of IFRS 2 have not been applied in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1.
In addition deferred taxation has not been recognised on these options but is accounted for as current tax when it arises.
p Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
i Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
ii Vacant properties Provision is made for vacant and partly sublet properties for the shorter of the remaining period of the lease and the period until, in the directors opinion, they will be able to exit the lease commitment.
Significant assumptions are applied in making these calculations and such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
