| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 18 Social responsibility overview Our commitment to social responsibility is deep-rooted and we put people, communities and values at the heart of our business.
In 2010 we set a stretching aspiration to achieve a 25 per cent reduction in our carbon footprint, on a per shop basis, by 2015.
We have continued to make reductions in our footprint despite introducing more shop equipment, extending trading hours days and expanding our wholesale business.
In 2012 we achieved a 3.5 per cent reduction, bringing our combined reduction against our 2010 base year to 8.9 per cent.
We are proud to have been officially certified with the Carbon Trust Standard, in recognition of our work on carbon efficiency and the good carbon management practices we have introduced into Greggs.
How we manage social responsibility Our commitment to social responsibility is deep-rooted.
This can be traced back to the establishment of the Greggs 220 Foundation in 1987 by Ian Gregg, and successive Chief Executives have Breakfast Clubs open in 2012 REDUCING CO2 continued to demonstrate this strong YEAR ON YEAR commitment to the role that the business should play in the community.
We are delighted that Greggs has We aim to operate in a socially and successfully achieved certification to the environmentally responsible way.
We In 2008 we established a Steering Group Carbon Trust Standard, demonstrating do this by putting people, communities to coordinate our social responsibility a real commitment to reducing its carbon and values at the heart of our business.
Chaired by the Company impact from the start of the assessment This means: Secretary, the Steering Group comprises period in 2010.
By taking action to reduce the Social Responsibility Manager and the emissions from its stores, bakeries, t Developing our 20,000 people, ensuring five members of the Operating Board, and transport Greggs is taking its place we work together as a united team and including the Chief Executive.
In considering amongst the carbon leaders on the high share in the rewards for making Greggs the impacts our operations have on various street, as well as setting an example for its a great place to work.
stakeholders, the Steering Group identified employees, stakeholders and customers.
t Giving our customers quality fresh four key areas of focus, each of which is Tom Delay, Chief Executive, bakery food at affordable prices.
championed by an Operating Board member.
Carbon Trust t Operating bakeries and shops safely for both our people and customers.
Reducing our impact on the world Going forward we will bring our carbon t Minimising the impacts our operations around us metric into line with benchmarking have on the environment.
Our operations impact on the local and measures used by external organisations t Making a difference to the lives of people wider environment in various ways, from such as the Carbon Disclosure Project.
in our local communities, particularly energy and water usage to waste and Our carbon will now be measured in those from disadvantaged groups.
As a growing business tonnes per m turnover.
On this basis our we have a duty to manage our resource historical performance remains broadly in needs and we have measured our direct line with the previous per shop measure.
carbon footprint for the past three years.
