22 Business Review People Powering the Next Generation FY 2012 saw the development of a new People agenda for the Training and Developing People to Deliver Expertise, Group with the arrival of the new Group HR Director, Jonathan Advice and Service Crookall.
The four key focus areas are: We continued to invest in colleague training, focusing on technical skills to support increased fitting and the growth in Recruiting the right people to support our service culture and cycling.
All colleagues were involved in a programme called future growth Flying Start, which provided the skills and confidence needed Training and developing people to deliver expertise, advice to develop further the ability to engage with every customer in and service store, re-emphasising the importance of a great interaction with customers and our overall helpful message.
Managing talent to provide succession for key roles and career opportunities for colleagues In our Autocentres business our apprentice training programme went from strength to strength with the establishment of a new Establishing an engaging culture, based on a clear set of external partnership with the specialists ProVQ.
More than 180 values new apprentices started our latest scheme in support of the growth in the Autocentres business.
Recruiting the Right People to Support our Service Culture Luke Tomkins, 19, was named Halfords Autocentres Apprentice and Future Growth of the Year after seeing off competition from fellow apprentices During the year we improved our recruitment processes and from around the country in the networks annual skills focused them more on selecting colleagues with an attitude that competition.
supports service and our helpful agenda.
We established The competition, hosted at training provider ProVQs state-ofpartnerships with recruitment suppliers and initiated a project to the-art workshop facilities near Shrewsbury, saw the ten talented improve our recruitment website and applicant tracking.
The new young technicians compete against the clock over a number of website launches in the summer and will align with our consumer tasks, including a vehicle safety inspection and various fault branding, attracting colleagues who have a helpful approach and diagnosis challenges.
great potential for the future.
We will also be better able to target candidates who are best suited to retail and our particular product groups.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 23 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 24 Business Review People Powering the Next Generation continued Luke impressed the judges with his consistent technical Establishing an Engaging Culture, Based on a Clear Set competency, expertise and ability to maintain a cool head under of Values pressure before being declared overall winner.
In FY12 we built on the success of the Helpful campaign by creating a broader culture change programme based on a new Bill Collins, technical training manager set of Halfords values see page 13.
Over 800 people across the for Halfords Autocentres, said: Company were involved in creating the six values and defining Halfords Autocentres runs the largest motor technician the behaviours that underpin them.
The values were launched at apprentice scheme in the UK.
Our Apprentice of the Year our national conference and continue to be a key action area.
We competition is a chance to celebrate the fresh talent we have are rolling out a full colleague engagement survey in June to in the business and to showcase their skills.
assess how best we can further develop colleague engagement in support of our drive for improving the customer experience.
Managing Talent to Provide Succession for Key Roles and Career Opportunities for Colleagues We have a good track record of developing colleagues from the shop floor into management positions.
This year we formalised our approach to tracking talent in stores and autocentres, and provided specific development programmes to grow the skills required to make the next level.
Our graduate programme continues to provide us with a pipeline of talent for our teams in Commercial and Marketing given the scarcity of quality talent in these critical areas.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 25 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
