54 Resources Infrastructure People We believe our people are core to enabling our aggressive growth plans Experienced to be realised.
Colleagues continue to play an important role in Our colleagues are highly experienced in the roles they perform.
In delivering our plans to sustain our success as a retailer and build particular, not only do our people have great experience in product momentum across a challenging retail landscape.
knowledge, servicing and fitting but our buyers are highly experienced in the markets we source from and supply to.
In addition, our property To succeed it is important that we build and maintain both a qualified team has considerable experience in converting and refurbishing our core and flexible colleague base.
Improvements in colleague work store portfolio.
All of this experience contributes to making Halfords a patterns have optimised shop floor availability of the right people at the retailer of choice.
right time to improve customer experience and deliver on the Halfords helpful promise.
Engagement To be the best we have to engage with our colleagues.
Our people are In addition, we continue to provide a range of training and development encouraged to connect, collaborate and exchange ideas, knowledge opportunities designed to improve productivity levels within Halfords and insights.
This informs decision-making and improves our overall Autocentres and improve competency in fitting services across the customer proposition.
This we believe will drive growth.
Engagement includes clear communication focused around our core Our people continue to play an important role in ensuring Halfords is values Think Customer: Be Helpful: Earn Trust: Inspire Others: Aim recognised as being a Friend to the Motorist, the Best Cycle Shop in To Win: Work As A Team.
Town, as well as a Starting Point for Great Getaways.
Examples of engagement across the business include the initiative to Strengthening Our Team encourage colleagues within the Centre and at the Distribution Centres We continue to strengthen our team at all levels and across all areas of to Buddy or Adopt a store this has proved a great way to get the business.
We focus on recruiting for attitude, expertise and potential people thinking across the business rather than simply seeing things as well as the ability to be part of a cohesive and unified one team from their perspective.
In turn, this has led to improving our multiapproach.
Our appointments range from strategic hires, as well as further Competencies additions to our operational management teams and specialist retail There are a number of activities that we believe are essential to ensuring trading, digital marketing, search analysis and analytics teams.
Such that we remain competitive in the market and attractive to our appointments continue to inform and identify new buying and trading customers.
5,780 of retail staff hold accredited fitting qualifications Within Halfords Autocentres 60% of staff are industry qualified 6.5% productivity improvement at Halford Autocentres 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 55 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Core competencies in marketing, branding, store retailing, distribution Development and international sourcing ensure we can provide customer offerings We have undertaken a number of people-based initiatives to improve across a range of price points.
Done well, these competencies allow us Group performance, develop a greater commercial focus and drive to maintain and improve our margins as well as grow our revenues.
sustainable growth through the development of innovative customer offerings.
This involves developing capability across our stores, Competencies help to shape the business and have led to a focus on autocentres, distribution centres as well as Head Office.
Operational Specialisation and having a Least Cost Back Office.
Innovation whether product or process led is driven by Values Driven participation, engagement and team effort.
This allows us to Developing performance and living the Group values of being helpful differentiate ourselves in a crowded marketplace.
depends on having trustworthy, honest, well-trained, enthusiastic and knowledgeable people who are capable of delivering the plan and living Right from the start, we induct and train for great customer service.
Training ranges from a competency framework across the business to nationally recognised and accredited training programmes for store and Creating the right culture is all about the way we do things at Halfords Halfords Autocentre colleagues.
the way we behave and the values we live and work by.
We believe it is essential that our people feel engaged, understand their responsibilities and are held accountable for their actions.
Creating the right mind-set ensures that customers have a great experience spending more and returning to Halfords again and again.
We think it is important to celebrate great performance and to never accept poor performance.
This requires talented and passionate people involved in both frontline service as well as those who work behind the scenes.
Approximately 11,000 colleagues 20 new Autocentres producing 83 new job opportunities 200 stores adopted by Head Office colleagues 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
