Industry Forum Health & Safety P e e c e d g a E n o l O a n p a o p t v t n n l i n e e r COTY Partnership g e k o a g Diversity c r o n o n o v a i a i s m d n l M t r o e a g c g f n o t f t n e r o i n c o t w Employer of Choice Community c i r v o P o u l r r s e G M s a r k 44 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Report Strategies related to our Corporate Responsibility life on Supply Chain Natural & Ethical Trading the move Resources We believe effective management of our Corporate Responsibility influence these throughout the business and our wider supply CR makes good business sense.
In doing so, we will seek to network.
Thats helpful, thats Halfords is not just for our ensure that Halfords, which is a household brand, has a positive customers, but is about how Halfords acts and reacts to ensure impact on the communities and environment in which we work, sustainability of both the environment in which we operate and be it through our operations, products and services or through our own business model.
our interactions with our customers, colleagues and suppliers.
The Group annually reviews its ongoing CR commitments to We are proud of our business and we see CR as a core business ensure it meets the needs of the markets and communities in consideration as it derives strategic, commercial and reputational which we work and that the associated Key Performance benefits.
We aim to achieve standards of responsible care across Indicators KPIs accurately reflect the Groups success or a number of key areas, including customers, trading, health & otherwise in implementing its policy.
safety, the environment, employee welfare and the community.
Following the review conducted last year by Business in the We are committed to ensuring we do the right things and our Community BITC the Group continued to follow its ACTING aim is to continually improve our management of the social, RESPONSIBLY policy during the period to 30 March 2012. environmental and economic issues within our control or 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 e t i s n n C e g o o c i m a t l Products Energy & Services a m p r k u e r n o i p t W y O Stores, Customers Fuel & Accessories W e b Halfords Group plc Online version 45 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Halfords corporate responsibility CR programme is aligned with the Groups business strategy, addresses the important CR issues that we face and informs appropriate management and colleague behaviour.
com cr However, the Company has a strong cost control ethos and is Our commitments are translated into actions and KPIs are used keenly bottom line driven with clear profit ambitions and the to assess success against our internal targets.
Paul thinking hierarchy at present is cost first.
It is therefore essential McClenaghan, Commercial Director, takes the lead in ensuring that any CR programme should be shown to be intricately linked that the policy supports the strategic objectives of the business.
to achieving business success and enhancing the businesss The Halfords Executive management monitors performance with value proposition.
regard to these objectives and targets via an internal report.
It is, however, the Boards responsibility to ensure that the Group Halfords has always prided itself on behaving responsibly to all operates in a responsible manner, and thus the Board reviews stakeholders, and CR forms an integral element of this the policy and our performance against that policy annually.
relationship by demonstrating the Companys honesty, reliability and trustworthiness in respecting customers, employees, In the Future investors and the environment.
However, we acknowledge that in Halfords will continue to work towards improving its management the past our community investment activities have been informal of the social, environmental and economic issues that are within and not driven by a clear community investment strategy that is its control and will continue to work with BITC to ensure that we aligned to our business strategies.
focus on the core areas of Corporate Responsibility whilst at the same time being proud custodians of the Halfords brand and its In order to address this the Company has involved itself with the impact on its stakeholders.
It makes good business sense that Princes Trust Seeing is Believing activities and visited a number we ensure the right and proper interaction between our of charities to see how Halfords might be able to make a positive Company, our stores and our products, and our customers, their contribution to communities in which our stores operate.
All the communities and their environment.
We hope to build on our charities that we met with worked with individuals from cycle repair work inclusion programme to help us deliver a quality disadvantaged backgrounds including homelessness, young repair service in-store and we will report more on the success of people NEET not in education, employment or training or this initiative next year.
In the many discussions that we had with the young people that we met, it was obvious that whilst they were appreciative of all offers of help, what they really wanted was a real opportunity to get a job.
This has led to discussions with a Social Enterprise company, Bikeworks, as to how Halfords might introduce a Work Inclusion programme for NEET individuals.
This is discussed in more detail on page 49.
As in 2011 we continue to report on our activities under the headings used by BITC in their 2010 report, and we have aligned these with our Group strategy on page 12.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 46 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Workplace Read online: halfords.
com cr We recognise that our colleagues are our single most valuable asset and we are committed to a fair but robust approach to equal opportunities.
Full unaudited details of our Corporate Responsibility activities are available online www.
com cr Employer of Choice Diversity The development and delivery of Halfords customer offer both in Halfords has an Equal Opportunities Policy which outlines our retail stores and autocentres would not have been possible regulatory requirements as well as the organisations without the unfailing support and commitment of our colleagues commitments regarding diversity and expectations of staff.
The employed across all our operations.
Consequently, we recognise current workforce in our stores and autocentres may not always that our colleagues are our single most valuable asset and we be reflective of our community base, but we feel it does reflect are committed to a fair but robust approach to equal our customer base and the types of services we provide, with opportunities in all areas of our business, with people gaining 26% of our total colleague population being women.
We have high expectations of all colleagues Health & Safety Management and everyone is required to perform and deliver value.
This Halfords is committed to high standards of occupational health & creates an environment that is challenging and rewarding, safety to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, enabling colleagues to develop quickly and pursue new contractors, customers, visitors and others who come into contact opportunities.
Our overall annual incident rate remains below We are committed to being seen as an employer of choice within the benchmarks of the industries we operate in.
the communities in which we operate.
We seek to employ people who are passionate about customers, love coming to work, strive to achieve their best and enjoy dealing with customers and delivering our helpful message.
Halfords Retail We recognise and reward high performance and by ensuring Staff holding accredited fitting qualifications colleagues have interesting jobs, with real accountability, Halfords 7,000 can provide the opportunity to develop careers.
Over the years we have worked hard to provide an environment in which people 6,000 are keen to work and our turnover rates both in our retail stores 5,000 5780 and autocentres are monitored on a regular basis.
4,000 4800 Our commitment to our customers means we are able to add 4000 3,000 value to their purchases with our fitting services.
This requires the 2,000 majority of our colleagues to be properly trained in the fitting of, amongst other products, bulbs, blades, batteries, child seats and 1,000 roof boxes.
Our desire to become famous for being helpful 2010 2011 2012 0 means that FY12 has seen a 20.4% increase in the number of our retail staff holding accredited fitting qualifications, whilst c. 60% of our autocentre workshop colleagues hold a Motor Industry qualification.
Women Colleagues employed in Halfords To ensure the best and the most consistent garaging servicing, Halfords Autocentres also run a Training Academy apprenticeship 50 programme, which currently has approximately 140 apprentices.
40 All go through a three-year fully funded programme and will 30 complete as qualified Technicians with an Institute of the Motor Industry NVQ level 3 and a Diploma.
In addition, they will each 20 26% 28% 13% 47% complete an Automotive Technician Accreditation ATA 10 Total Women Women Women assessment and we provide ongoing development opportunities Women in Store in DC in HO 0 through our IMI accredited Academy of Learning where we can deliver a range of both Technical and Management qualifications from foundation level voluntary qualifications through to degree equivalents.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 47 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Marketplace Read online: halfords.
com cr We interact with our customers every day to ensure that our range meets their requirements and that they understand how to use our products safely.
com cr Stores and Customer Service At a time when the issues surrounding health and obesity have become increasingly important, Halfords, as the largest retailer of We market high quality products that we believe meet or exceed the cycling products, actively encourages people to participate in this requirements of appropriate legislation, international conventions and outdoor activity.
We currently stock 189 models of bicycles, of which codes of practice.
Where external guidance does not exist, we apply our 82 are aimed at children between three and eight years of age, and we own exacting standards.
With a complex product range of over 14,000 continue to market Cycle 2 Work schemes that allow employers to items, we interact with our customers every day to ensure that our range offer to their employees the use of a bicycle for travelling to work.
meets their requirements and that they understand how to use our products safely.
Halfords has a large number of regular customers who Services see their key drivers of satisfaction being choice of products and brands, Within our Autocentres business, all of our servicing products are store environments and ease of shopping, knowledgeable staff with a aimed at increasing fuel efficiency and helping the motorist get more will-do helpful attitude and competitive, value-for-money pricing miles per gallon.
together with a reasonably priced service proposition.
During 2011 we introduced our new brakes4life product.
brakes4life Our autocentres provide value-added services to both the general public is a lifetime replacement of brake pads and brake shoes.
By and large fleet providers alike, and carry out manufacturer-based maintaining brake pads and shoes in good working condition our servicing which meets the needs of vehicles still covered under warranty customers can improve fuel efficiency and ensure they can drive the as well as our own menu-based servicing options, typically reducing the car safely.
cost of motoring yet maintaining quality.
The parts that we fit meet OE standards, ensuring that warranties are never compromised and that Supply Chain Transportation legislative requirements are met.
We are the UKs largest supporter of Given that so many of our products are imported, we pay particular the Automotive Technician Accreditation ATA scheme and we work attention to the carbon footprint that this could create.
We continue to proactively to ensure that our technicians are up to date and technically monitor the airfreighting of our products from suppliers, and only do so competent.
in cases of extreme urgency.
When landed in the UK, the majority of our products are shipped via rail to our Distribution Centres in the Midlands.
As well as being monitored by external organisations such as VOSA and Trading Standards, we apply our own quality control systems and mystery shopper programme to ensure that our customers receive the Tonnes of Product Airfreighted very best service experience.
200 Products 180 We continually assess the lifestyle and environmental impacts of our 187.043 160 177.020 products, packaging, procedures and services at all appropriate 140 120 stages, e. g. design, procurement, supply, sale, use and disposal.
We 100 always promote good practice in the provision of environmental 80 communication to customers and colleagues: however, our business 89.204 60 67.641 strategy and product offering is strongly influenced by consumer 40 36.817 20 choice.
For example in FY12 we sold c. 993,000 litres of diluted screen 29.045 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 0 wash and only c. 540,000 litres of concentrated screen wash, a product that has a carbon footprint c. 5 times lower than its diluted eqivalent.
of Containers moved by Rail No.
com cr Our commitment is to understand and to continually improve the performance and management of our environmental impact.
com cr The Environment Volumes of waste material recycled versus that sent to landfill have increased over the last five years to 81% in 2012.
Our products, stores, offices, and fleet of delivery vehicles have direct impacts on the environment.
We also understand that As motor vehicle servicing centres, our autocentres are there are indirect impacts caused by the production and use of continually disposing of motor vehicle related waste safely.
Our commitment is to understand and to FY12 as well as recycling car batteries we disposed of c. 197,200 continually improve the performance and management of our tyres 2011: 132,000 and c. 876,300 litres of oil 2011: 755,000. environmental impact throughout the Halfords supply chain.
Energy and Reducing CO Emissions 2 In managing our environmental responsibilities, our overall As we have continued to open new stores and autocentres our objectives relate to the following key areas: overall use of gas and electricity has improved as we added Fuel Efficiency energy management systems to our properties and implemented specific action plans around voltage reduction.
This years use of During FY12 our fleet of lorries drove over 7,000,000 kilometres energy has not been affected by the cold weather periods of in delivering product to our stores.
To more fully understand our December 2010 and February 2011 and we have reduced our impact on Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions, we have use of energy within the Groups stores and autocentres, in converted the transport fleet fuel usage to total CO emissions.
In Retail where records have been kept since FY12, The CO equivalent usage, calculated based on DEFRAs 2 2007 we continue to reduce our use of gas and electricity in line 2011 Freight Transport conversion factor of 2.648, indicates that with our target of between 15% and 20% on a 2007 base.
we have used over 6 million tonnes of CO, an 18% reduction 2 year-on-year.
This has been achieved by better utilisation of our The following graph represents the energy used by our stores, Main and Cycling Distribution Centre, resulting in improved autocentres, head offices and distribution centres.
management of store deliveries and in the use of larger and double-decker trailer units, meaning more stock can be carried Total Energy Usage kWh per delivery.
120,000,000 Natural Resources 100,000,000 We continue to reduce our water usage and over the years have 80,000,000 invested in smart water meters, which helps us to identify water leaks at an early stage.
In our Retail stores, in FY12 we 60,000,000 maintained our proud record of reducing water usage year-on- 40,000,000 year with a further 12.4% reduction.
com Community Read online: halfords.
com cr We are committed to ensuring that all of our customers are able to access our products and services with the minimum of effort Full unaudited details of our Corporate Responsibility activities are available online www.
com cr Halfords Work Inclusion Programme feedback from our customers and store colleagues.
Halfords recognises that the development of close supplier partnerships is Following the Seeing is Believing visits described on page 45, essential for the ongoing provision of an innovative and value-forHalfords was introduced to Bikeworks, a social enterprise company, money product offer.
Halfords has a Sourcing Code of Conduct specialising in using cycles and cycle repair to engage with the Code, which can be viewed on the Companys website disadvantaged NEET individuals.
Bikeworks already run a work-based training programme, over a three-month period, that is design to give individuals the technical 150 skills and work experience to be ready for employment in the cycle 136 135 industry.
The successful trainees gain a bicycle maintenance 120 113 111 qualification as well as being exposed to a working cycle-retailing 105 operation where they develop customer service and team-working 90 skills.
99.8 99.9 95.9 91.0 75 Halfords has, therefore, entered into a partnership with Bikeworks to 60 51 create and deliver a programme that not only meets the Companys 45 CR community objectives but also supports the Companys Best 30 Cycle Shop in Town strategy by creating a programme of Cycle 15 Repair training for people from disadvantaged backgrounds and, 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 where appropriate, employing them in Halfords stores, delivering a knowledgeable, skilful and competitive cycle repair service.
Number of audits undertaken % of suppliers covered Plans for this partnership were finalised in March 2012, and from Charity of the Year 1 April 2012 Halfords has committed to not only sponsoring Our policy on charitable giving is to concentrate on working with Bikeworks to deliver out-reach Build-a-bike courses and to deliver one main charity over a two-year period.
Since April 2011 the Cycle into Work course to a number of individuals, but we we have partnered with Cancer Research UK.
have also committed to employing the best, in Halfords stores local to each individual.
In FY13 we aim to employ a minimum of 10 individuals in the London area through this Work Inclusion Apprenticeships Programme.
The Group is aware of the need to provide employment opportunities within local communities and our Autocentres have Accessibility the largest independent Apprentice Scheme in the motor industry.
Our stores serve their local communities with our products and The scheme has been in operation for over 20 years and we have expert services and we are conscious that all, irrespective of never failed to offer employment to apprentices who complete the disability, should be able to access both our stores and our online three-year scheme.
We treat our responsibilities very seriously and we are committed to ensuring that all of our customers are able to access Industry Forums our products and services with the minimum of effort.
We are Halfords retail values opportunities to work closely with trade committed to ensuring that both customers and colleagues have associations, research institutes, standards authorities, universities acess to our facilities and we have taken various actions in order to and government organisations to improve performance standards fulfil our responsibilities, including in 2011 working with the and safety.
During the year we have worked with ProMOTe to Employers Disability Forum to deliver training to some of our Head challenge proposed changes to MOT testing and the Plain Office and store colleagues.
English Campaign who awarded their Crystal Mark to both our brakes4life brochure and our Helpful MOT Guide.
Ethical Trading We place great importance on the selection of our suppliers and how they interact within their own local communities and, where appropriate, we will visit manufacturing sources to verify that effective quality procedures are in place and that supply chain costs are minimised.
We are always striving for improvement and we believe it is important that our suppliers are responsive to 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 50 Resources 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 51 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com RESOURCES Transforming Halfords 52 Transforming our Business 53 Infrastructure People 54 Systems 56 Investment 58 Channels Reach and Scale 59 Brand Resonance 60 Customer Focus 61 Products & Services Friend of the Motorist 62 Best Cycle Shop in Town 64 Starting Point for Great Getaways 65 Read online@ Read online: halfor halfords.
br es 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
