PrIncIPal rIsKs anD uncertaIntIes contInueD risk description Potential impact mitigation change laws and regulations Reduced financial All Group companies have an employee handbook detailing Group operations are subject performance employment practices, including the need to report any major to wide-ranging laws and legal or contractual risks.
The Groups emphasis on excellent Reputational damage regulations including business financial control, the deployment of high quality management conduct, employment, resource and the strong focus on quality control over products Diversion of environmental and health and and processes in each operating business helps to protect management resources safety legislation.
There is also us from product failure, litigation and contractual issues.
Financial penalties exposure to product litigation and Each operating company has a health and safety manager contractual risk.
The laws and responsible for compliance and our performance in this area regulations we are exposed to as is good.
Updated Health and Safety policies and guidance our businesses expand around were issued recently, with enhanced monthly reporting.
We the world increase each year.
carry comprehensive insurance against all standard categories of insurable risk.
Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to contractual liability.
Our well established policies on bribery and corruption have been updated during the year to ensure continued compliance with best practice with a Group Code of Conduct issued and by appropriate clauses included in third party agreements.
acquisitions Reduced financial We acquire businesses whose technology and markets we The identification and purchase performance know well.
Divisional Chief Executives are responsible for of businesses which meet our finding and completing acquisitions in their business sectors Unforeseen liabilities demanding financial and growth subject to Board approval supported by central resources criteria is an important part of to search for opportunities.
We use detailed post-acquisition Failure to deliver our strategy for developing the integration plans.
Incentives are aligned to encourage expected returns Group, as is ensuring the new acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one and businesses are rapidly integrated to adversely impact executives for buying businesses which into the Group.
fail to deliver a return above a cost of capital.
Information technology Delay or impact There is substantial redundancy and back up built into GroupBusiness Interruption on decision making wide systems.
The spread of business offers good protection Group and operational from individual events.
We have a small central resource, Reduced service management depend on timely Halma IT Services, to assist Group companies with any major to customers and reliable information from our IT needs and to ensure adequate IT security policies are used software systems.
We seek to across the Group.
We carry out regular IT audits.
We utilise Loss of Intellectual ensure continuous availability, external penetration testing and have nearly completed the rollProperty security and operation of those out of a centralised IT disaster recovery solution to supplement systems.
Business Continuity plans are well advanced in each business unit.
financial Irregularities and Reduced financial The Group ensures that there is adequate local management International expansion performance and financial resource in each operational location ensuring Our objective is to grow our they are adequately trained in financial matters whilst Reputational damage business across the world and maintaining a culture of openness to promote disclosure.
to increase revenue and profit Responsibility for remote operations rests with operational Missed opportunity outside of developed markets management in the sponsoring company who supervises Inability to deliver and particularly in Asia.
This closely and visits frequently.
We continue to seek, attract on growth strategy presents both operating and and develop senior talent in developing markets.
Group cultural risks across the world.
companies operate a common set of reporting procedures We recognise that the size and and accounting policies, disseminated via the Group intranet.
remoteness of some operations Internal Audit regularly reviews operations and we appointed may not permit full segregation a new Internal Auditor in China last year.
of duties and that Internal and External Audit procedures may not always identify a financial irregularity.
The arrows indicate the direction of change in particular risks during the year.
62 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements risk description Potential impact mitigation change cash Constraints on, or The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides financial A key risk is that the Group inability to, trade flexibility.
Cash needs are monitored regularly.
In addition to will run out of cash or have short-term overdraft facilities the Group renewed and increased Inability to deliver inadequate access to cash.
to 260m its five-year revolving credit facility during the year on growth strategies In addition, cash deposits providing security of funding and sufficient headroom for its need to be held in a secure needs.
Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread Permanent loss of form or location.
amongst a number of highly rated banks.
Subsidiaries report shareholder funds their cash status to Head Office every week.
treasury risks Reduced financial The Group does not use complex derivative financial Foreign currency risk is the performance instruments and no speculative treasury transactions are most significant treasury related undertaken.
Currency profits are not hedged.
Currency Reputational damage risk for the Group.
In times of hedging must fit with the commercial needs of the business increased volatility this can and we have in place a hedging strategy to manage Group Financial penalties have a significant impact on exposures.
This requires the hedging of a substantial performance.
The Sterling proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months value of overseas profit earned and in exceptional cases 24 months ahead.
Longer term during the year is sensitive to the currency trends can only be covered through a wide strength of Sterling, particularly geographic spread of operations.
We closely monitor against the US Dollar and the performance against the financial covenants on our revolving Euro.
The Group is exposed to credit facility and are operating well within these covenants.
a lesser extent to other treasury The risk has increased because more of the Groups profits risks such as interest rate risk are derived from non-Sterling currencies.
economic conditions Reduced financial We manage such risks primarily at local company level where In times of uncertain economic performance they are best understood and where we are closest to the conditions businesses face markets and our customers.
Operating companies consider Loss of market share additional or elevated levels of contingency plans as part of the annual budget process.
These include market and financial strength, availability of finance and diversity of the Unforeseen liabilities customer risk, customer default, Group provides mitigation to much of this risk as does the Disruption of service fraud, supply chain risk and demand for many of our products which is driven by legislation.
Uncertainty in the We operate robust credit management at each operating Eurozone in particular adds company.
The Halma Executive Board identifies any wider to current uncertainty.
The Group has reviewed its potential exposure to the current macro-economic uncertainty relating to the Eurozone economies.
The Group operates in a broad spread of markets, which substantially limits the risk associated with instability in any given territory.
Whilst the Group has sales into Mainland Europe of 154m in 2011 12 27% of total Group sales, sales into Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain represented just 26m 4% of total Group sales.
The Group does not have any significant operations within these countries.
The Group holds no significant cash deposits in, and none of the Groups funding is provided by an institution primarily located in, any of these countries.
Pension Deficit Excessive consumption There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and Monitoring the funding needs of cash limiting pension strategy is a regular Halma Board agenda item.
The of the Groups pension plans is investment Groups strong cash flows and access to adequate borrowing essential to funding our pension facilities mean that the pensions risk can be adequately Unexpected variability obligations effectively.
The Group has increased pension contributions in company results defined benefit pension plans with the overall objective of paying off the deficit in line with are closed to new members.
We monitor and consider alternative means of reducing our pension risk in light of the best long-term interest for shareholders.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 corPorate resPonsIBIlIty Governance and commitment to ensuring that our team has the approach places on corporate responsibility and corporate responsibility and skills required to succeed we are better enable the Board to monitor the Groups Halma companies are involved in the placed to meet the challenges of the future.
progress in meeting its objectives and manufacture of a wide range of products responsibilities in these areas.
Details are We recognise the necessity of safeguarding that protect and improve the quality given on pages 18 and 19. the health and safety of our own employees of life for people worldwide.
Therefore, Halma has an excellent health and safety while at work and operate so as to provide a safety is critical to the Group and is a major record and a culture of safety is deeply safe and comfortable working environment priority for management.
Reduction of embedded within the Group.
We will for employees, visitors and the public.
the Groups carbon footprint has received continue to actively promote our safety Our policy is to manage our activities increased attention since 2007 with the culture over the coming year following a to avoid causing any unnecessary or initial objective of a 10% reduction in relative major update and relaunch of our internal unacceptable risks to health and safety and carbon usage in the three years to March Health and Safety policy, guidance the environment.
We have an excellent long- 2010 renewed for the subsequent three and reporting.
term record for addressing environmental years to March 2013. issues that affect our businesses and Halma and the environment Our core values are Achievement, for developing products that protect the We have an excellent long-term record Innovation, Empowerment and Customer environment and improve safety at work and a clear strategy for addressing Satisfaction.
These core values have been and in public places.
environmental issues that affect our selected following extensive surveying We support the concept of sustainability businesses and for developing products of employees across the Group.
Our and recognise that, in common with that protect the environment and improve culture is one of openness, integrity all businesses, our activities have an safety at work and in public places.
We encourage our environmental impact.
Our strategy is not employees to act fairly in their dealings with our products to have capital-intensive manufacturing fellow employees, customers, suppliers Many of our innovative products play a very processes and to operate close to our and business partners.
We recognise that positive role in monitoring and improving end markets in terms of geography, so the our employees determine our success and the environment.
Halma brands lead the environmental impact of our operations therefore have invested in and encouraged world in a number of technologies which is relatively low compared to manufacturers their development more this year than help to minimise environmental damage.
We also recognise that ever before, not only with a suite of Halma Our principal environmental technologies we can improve our own environmental development programmes, but also through are water leakage detection, gas emissions performance and so resources are clear leadership and decisive action.
By monitoring, water and effluent analysis, Uv customer satisfaction continuous improvement achievement Innovation teamwork quality Six matching values in top ten 2012 deployed to actively reduce our own water treatment and optical sensing.
promote the use of Uv water sterilisation which eliminates the need to use dangerous Halma has been a member of the chemicals, as well as products that FTSE4Good UK index since its minimise the waste of clean water.
Our commitment to the development of A summary of our progress and equipment for measuring environmental performance for all areas of corporate changes and controlling the damaging responsibility follows.
Halma has developed impact of industrial activities is long term.
meaningful key performance indicators We make safety equipment for use at KPIs that reflect the importance the Group 64 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements work, in public places and in transportation levels we provide to our customers.
It also We renewed our target in 2010 and are systems that contribute to increased makes our operations more flexible and pleased to report that in the first two years personal safety by ensuring safe practice responsive to their markets and customers.
We have at work, protecting people from fire and With operations spread around the globe, initiated a number of carbon reduction making elevators and automatic doors our supplier base is understandably actions, particularly in the UK, which are safe and effective.
We are the major world fragmented.
Therefore, responsibility for designed to help us meet our targets.
supplier in several of these areas.
vetting and managing suppliers is devolved From April 2010, we have worked with to local management while meeting the carbon policy a provider of energy efficiency and Groups ethical standards.
The Groups policy on carbon is published carbon reduction solutions to ensure on our website and has been distributed FTSE4Good has assessed Halma as compliance with the new Carbon Reduction and explained to all Halma business units.
having a low impact on the environment.
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme A senior executive in each of our higher Nevertheless, Group companies are CRC which is the UKs mandatory impact business units is responsible encouraged to improve energy efficiency, climate change and energy saving scheme for implementing the carbon policy at reduce waste and emissions and reduce administered by the Environment Agency.
Our Finance Director, Kevin the use of materials in order to minimise We are in full compliance with the CRC Thompson, has principal responsibility their environmental impact.
Already we have rolled out for coordinating and monitoring the policy.
established baseline data in 2004 05 Automatic Meter Reading AMR technology on emissions to air and water, water to the majority of UK sites.
All major UK environmental management system and energy consumption, and waste sites have received an energy survey and We are committed to developing production, the results of which are updated set an action plan for improved energy and implementing an environmental on the Halma website each year.
This initiative is backed up by management system EMS throughout data collected for the past five years has specialist carbon management software the Group to measure, control and, where enabled the Group to set comprehensive and comprehensive training on its use.
The practical, reduce our environmental and quantifiable objectives for reducing its Groups environmental performance will impacts.
We have developed performance environmental impacts in those areas and to continue to be reported both in the Annual indicators that assist local management set and monitor targets for reduction in key Report and on our website.
in implementing the policy and ultimately areas.
The collected data confirms that the developing an EMS.
The requirement for The Group is committed to examining main area of impact on the environment is an EMS and the related reporting has the establishment of green procurement energy consumption.
been rolled out to all UK business units, policies and increasing our use of which represent approximately 41% of The Group does not operate a fleet of recycled materials.
Group production facilities in terms of distribution vehicles although we do own a Halma and its people external turnover.
All Group companies are number of company cars.
From May 2007, The Group has a policy of equal encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the we implemented a cap on permissible CO 2 opportunities and preventing harassment, international environmental accreditation, emissions of all UK company vehicles and which applies in relation to recruitment of where warranted.
The requirement to will extend this requirement to the rest of the all new employees and to the management implement an EMS will be extended to the world in due course.
This limit is reduced of existing personnel.
This gives us access rest of the Group in the medium term.
In each year so as to consistently reduce our to the widest labour market and enables terms of revenue, currently 22% 2011: 19% vehicles environmental impact.
We have us to secure the best employees for our of the Group has ISO 14001 approval.
also set a fuel consumption standard for needs.
We offer all of our staff training company vehicles in the USA which is relevant to their roles and we believe that reviewed annually.
this contributes to an increase in employee motivation and job satisfaction.
The culture alignment survey results mentioned below support this trend.
Completed training Periodically we complete a survey of employees to determine whether our core values are authentic in our organisation.
The survey establishes the values individual 54% of eligible employees employees wish to see in our operating culture and to what extent they exist in our current culture.
In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five 50% of the values they wanted to see in our business were actually present.
In 2012, our survey of senior managers showed that six 60% desired values were present in our business.
This indicates that there is a healthy level of alignment between the culture we aspire to have and the culture we actually have.
our impact We are committed to reducing our carbon The environmental effect of our operations footprint.
We set a target in 2007 to reduce is relatively low compared to manufacturers the Groups total carbon emissions relative in other sectors.
Our manufacturing to revenues by 10% over three years.
model is decentralised permitting our Following a total reduction of 7% in the first operations to be located close to their two years, 2009 10 showed an increase customers.
Manufacturing operations are following the acquisition of a high energy established across the world for this very usage facility in the USA.
We are working reason rather than to save labour costs.
hard to reduce the energy impact of that The ethos of being close to our customers facility and excluding that operation we reflects the importance we place on the would have achieved our target reduction.
quality of our products and the service Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
