Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 05 OUR CSR FRAMEWORK Heritage considers that an effective OUR AREAS OF IMPACT AND OPPORTUNITY Heritage recognises specic responsibilities in each of six core CSRframework, supported by robust areas of potential impact and opportunity, specic to the CSR aspects of our activities.
Adherence to these CSR values is viewed policies, systems and exemplary as a key factor in securing the long-term success of the Company.
performance is paramount in securing We aim to apply targets, across our identied areas of impact and long-term success.
The framework opportunity, to focus employees and enable the Company and supports our core business model stakeholders to monitor performance.
together with high standards of governance and regional knowledge.
OUR CSR VISION Environment and sustainability to be a responsible and transparent business in all the areas in which we operate, believing this is fundamental in generating Aim to make a positive contribution to global long-term growth for the Company: sustainability and to protect the environment to create lasting legacies for local communities: to operate to the highest international social, environmental and safety standards: and Health and safety to maintain high standards of corporate governance.
A core element of all activities and a natural priority CSR encompasses the Companys management of relationships with shareholders, employees, contractors, partners and the local communities where we work, together with the impact it has on society and the environment.
Employees CSR IN ACTION Our ability to create shareholder value is linked with our Our approach to CSR supports the business model and sets out the ability to recruit and retain high calibre staff essential core values that we believe make Heritage a good corporate citizen.
The Company sets itself a high standard against which to measure itself and recognises the importance of being a partner of choice.
Community and humanrights Our approach to CSR includes how we conduct relationships with all Active and enduring relationships are an essential and of our stakeholders and the wider impact we can have on society and fundamental element of our business the environment.
We undertake CSR related initiatives across our asset portfolio where Business conduct we are actively working.
We maintain robust policies with respect to all matters concerning our business conduct OUR CSR STRATEGY SET P OLI CIE S Corporate governance As a Company with a Premium Listing, Heritage DEVI SE A N D MAINTAIN S Y STEM S maintains high corporate governance standards MEA SURE AND M O NITO R PERFOR M A N C E COMMUNI C ATE AND REP ORT TO STAKEH OLDER S APPLY STA K E H OLDER FEED B AC K HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 06 CSR POLICY FRAMEWORK employees to respect different cultures, traditions and employment The CSR policy framework sets out the practices across our business areas.
We share common goals with our employees and contractors, in particular the elimination of workplace essential core values which Heritage injuries, and are committed to good corporate values and responsible believes make the Company a good behaviour.
We recognise achievement and create opportunities for individuals at all levels of our businesses.
In dealing with our corporate citizen.
The framework employees we act in compliance with national regulatory defines how the Company should requirements and our obligations under relevant national and international laws.
operate across all levels of business, ILO DECL ARATION ON FUNDAMENTAL setting a high standard against which PRINCIPLES AND RIGHTS AT WORK to measure.
We support the four fundamental principles contained within the International Labour Organisation ILO Declaration.
In accordance with local legislation and practice, we respect freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, employment that is freely chosen with no use of forced or child labour and we do not discriminate on the basis of gender, colour, ethnicity, culture, Our approach to: religion, sexual orientation or disability.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y MATTERS EQUAL OPPORTUNIT Y ENVIRONMENTAL We value all employees for their contribution to the business and are We aim to make a positive contribution to the protection of the committed to diversity and opportunities for advancement.
These environment where we operate and to minimise any adverse effects of factors are not inuenced by any considerations other than our operations.
Wherever possible, we will prevent, or otherwise performance and aptitude.
Employees are provided with the minimise, mitigate and remediate, harmful effects of our operations opportunity to develop their potential and, where appropriate, to on the environment.
We will also promote, encourage and prioritise develop their careers further within the Group.
reuse and recycling methods throughout our operations and endeavour to meet the challenges presented by climate change.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH We aim to protect the physical health of all of our employees and SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS contractors whilst in the workplace.
In particular, we endeavour to We aim to contribute positively to global sustainability through our meet any challenges presented to our employees and the wider operations, the development of our elds, our adoption of new communities in which they live and operate.
technologies and the conduct of our relationships with all stakeholders.
Our approach to: Our approach to: COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS MATTERS COMMUNITIES HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS It is important to the Company that relationships with neighbours Health and safety is a natural priority and a core element of all of our and local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual activities.
All energy companies face a wide range of health and safety respect.
These relationships recognise that active and enduring matters ranging from industrial accidents to occupational illnesses.
partnerships are a central and fundamental element of our business.
Our goal, and a key performance indicator of the Company, is zero We aim to promote the sharing of economic benefit created by our injuries and fatalities across all areas of our operations.
We aim to activities through the conduct of our community relationships.
ensure that important factors, such as an understanding of cultural differences in host countries and use of external contractors, are UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSAL DECL ARATION OF addressed in the development of our health and safety systems and HUMAN RIGHTS procedures with a view to constructing, maintaining and developing We support human rights, consistent with the stipulations contained world class safety systems across all of our operations.
within the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and remain committed to upholding these principles.
We endeavour to ensure that these commitments extend to all of our supply chains and we work with our partners and contractors to ensure that they Our approach to: are part of our contractual requirements.
EMPLOYEE MATTERS EMPLOYEES UNITED NATIONS DECL ARATION ON THE RIGHTS Our ability to create sustainable shareholder value is linked to our OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES ability to recruit, motivate and retain high calibre staff as detailed in Heritage supports the principles which underpin the United Nations the risk section in the Annual Review on pages 32 to 34.
Ensuring Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
In particular we that relationships between our employees are cohesive, safe and support rights to culture, identity, language, employment, health and effective is important to our Company and we expect all our education.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 07 LAND ACCESS COMPETITION We ensure that we receive the widest possible support for our We always aim to compete vigorously with our competitors, but in a proposals throughout the life cycle of our activities.
We do this by fair and responsible way, and aim to ensure that our success is built working in partnership with our stakeholders to optimally and upon excellence.
When in contact with our competitors, employees sensitively co-ordinate relevant economic, technical and sustainable are required to avoid disclosing condential information and we will development factors in an integrated process.
not make improper attempts to acquire competitor trade secrets or other condential information.
Employees will not undertake any arrangements or practices that may conict with laws applicable to the conduct of our business.
Our approach to: BUSINESS CONDUCT MATTERS POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT Heritage ds not, directly or indirectly, participate in party politics Our approach to: and the Company ds not provide financial support to political parties or politicians.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS COMPLIANCE WITH THE L AW AND RELEVANT REGULATIONS BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Heritage is resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever We are committed to protecting interests of our shareholders and forms they may take.
Gifts or entertainment may only be offered to a other stakeholders through compliance with relevant legal and third party if they are consistent with usual business practice in the regulatory environments and similarly through effective management relevant territory, are modest in value and cannot be interpreted as a of business risks.
We comply fully with all relevant national and form of inducement.
international laws and act in accordance with local guidelines and regulations, including those that are industry specic and govern our It is Heritages policy that revenues, purchases and services from operations.
suppliers are made solely on the basis of price, quality, performance, value and for their benefit.
Sales, purchases or award of contracts It is the responsibility of senior personnel to ensure, by taking legal or should never be made as the result of giving or receiving inducements other advice where appropriate, that they are aware of all local laws in the form of gifts, money or entertainment from third parties or and regulations that may affect the area of the business in which they favours in any other form.
Employees should not accept gifts, money or entertainment from ACCOUNTING AND RECORDS third party organisations or individuals, where these might Heritage maintains accounting systems that identify clearly the true reasonably be considered likely to inuence business transactions.
nature of all business transactions, assets and liabilities, in line with Gifts, other than trivial ones of low value, are not accepted.
In a relevant regulatory, accounting and legal requirements.
No record or culture where such an action might cause offence, the gift must be entry may be false, distorted, incomplete or suppressed.
declared to the Company and, if practical, donated to an appropriate charity.
All Group reporting must be accurate and complete and in compliance in all material respects with stated accounting policies Heritage has a robust Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy.
Employees must not materially misstate, or knowingly misrepresent, management information for personal gain TREATMENT OF CUSTOMERS or any other reason.
We regard mutual trust and confidence with our contractors and customers as very important.
We require employees to deliver high EXTERNAL REPORTING levels of service consistently, surpassing expectations and meeting Our businesses may be required to make statements or provide their changing requirements.
reports to regulatory bodies, government agencies or other government departments.
Our businesses will take care to ensure REL ATIONS WITH SUPPLIERS that such statements or reports are correct, timely and not We ensure that all of our suppliers are treated fairly and responsibly.
Senior management must be made aware of any sensitive All potential suppliers will have a reasonable opportunity to win disclosure before it is made.
We ensure that statements made to the business with us.
We aim to pay our suppliers on time and in media are correct and not misleading.
Media enquiries are referred to accordance with agreed terms of trade.
Suppliers will conduct their our media experts and or advisers and statements are only made by activities in accordance with our own policies.
We provide, through our Group website www.
com, the Annual Report and Accounts and other statements, including this report, appropriate information to enable shareholders and stakeholders to assess the performance of the Company.
We always comply with applicable laws and regulations concerning disclosure of information about the Group.
