HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 16 COMMUNITY & HUMAN RIGHTS We ensure that relationships with our neighbours and local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect.
Enduring partnerships are a central and fundamental element of these relationships.
2012 HIGHLIGHTS POTENTIAL IMPACT AND OPPORTUNITY The support of host communities, governments and other in Kurdistan we helped with repairing roads stakeholders is crucial in the achievement of our long-term business close to our operations: and objectives.
If managed incorrectly we could potentially: across our operations we participated in many alienate communities, leading to conict and disruption: and create a culture of dependency upon our Company or create healthcare, environmental and conict between communities and governments.
Managed correctly, we can work together with local communities to generate shared long-term prosperity, some of which will stem from required health and education initiatives.
MITIGATION OF IMPACT To ensure that we maintain healthy relationships with local communities and governments we: promote sharing of economic benets created by our activities through the conduct of community relationships and are rmly committed to upholding principles set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights: enter into long-term sustainable community projects requested by local communities: seek to ensure access to land is secured using approaches that are sensitive to local concerns and values: generate socio-economic benets that address long-term local needs: and Amount spent on health and social programmes in 2012 provide opportunities for local suppliers when there is often a significant gap between the highly technical requirements of the industry and the level of skills available locally.
$220,000 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 17 OUR APPROACH Q&A We view stakeholder engagement as an integral part of our business Many of Heritages operations model.
The success of projects in the different parts of the world is dependent on relationships with governments, local authorities and are located in areas of economic local communities.
How does the Company address this?
A natural part of a new project development involves consultation with local communities as well as government authorities, to identify ways Heritage always develops close in which our expertise can be best applied.
Our licence to operate in relationships with local authorities and any area is dependent on being viewed as a positive force by those most communities in areas where it operates.
directly affected by our operations and therefore it is in our interest to An important element of these consult stakeholders and nd ways to be a trusted and useful partner.
relationships is the design and operation of sustainable development programmes We believe that by partnering with other organisations such as that aim to address important aspects of NGOs, governments local and national and other companies, we local need.
reduce the risk of creating dependency, encourage dialogue and manage expectations.
It is our intention to improve conditions in the These activities are always performed in vicinity of our operations and we try to invest in sustainable projects conjunction with local stakeholders and where local communities have a sense of ownership, thus increasing their input in the process is important their long-term effects.
However, in terms of having the greatest when establishing our CSR programmes.
impact, we believe this is best achieved through helping countries realise their natural resource potential to create shared economic We have developed a successful approach wealth for everyone.
to this area from our experience and we apply this in the territories where we now Sponsorship of individuals to schools and universities has been a operate.
We will look to engage with feature of the Heritage CSR policy as this has benets that reach out communties in Nigeria, through our joint into the longer term for the communities.
We also provide healthcare venture, Shoreline.
and other social welfare schemes where appropriate.
Comments and feedback are welcomed and can be provided by referring to the contact information at the back of this CSR Report or on our website www.
