HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 14 EMPLOYEES Our ability to create sustainable shareholder value is linked to our ability to recruit, motivate and retain high calibre staff.
Heritage aims to ensure that relationships between our employees are cohesive, safe and effective.
2012 HIGHLIGHTS POTENTIAL IMPACT AND OPPORTUNITY Our ability to create sustainable shareholder value relies on our we continued to operate with a high percentage ability to recruit, motivate and retain employees with a diverse range of local workers drawn from our areas of of skills.
We believe that our competitive advantage is derived as operation, using expatriates only when much from our people as from our asset base and attractive and growing business opportunities.
The loss of key employees is one of particular skill sets were not available locally: the primary risks of the business which can potentially cause short staff turnover has remained low at 3%: and medium-term disruption to operations.
approximately $651,000 spent on training: We believe that our success has been attributable in part to on the job training and third party training assembling the right team of people and we focus on how to attract, provided to local personnel: and manage and engage both employees and contractors.
increased number of female employees across Our continued focus on recruiting, where possible, from local several regions.
communities is an important factor in maintaining excellent stakeholder relationships.
MITIGATION OF IMPACT To ensure successful recruitment, motivation and retention in a challenging, international market for skills and experience, we aim for: a competitive approach to remuneration with packages reviewed regularly: establishing long-term incentive schemes: learning and development programmes that enhance employees careers: Amount spent on training a commitment to diversity: a focus on recruitment from within host countries and communities, where certain skill sets are available: and workplaces that motivate and engage employees at all levels, and $651,000 which are free from discrimination and harassment of any kind.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 15 OUR APPROACH Q&A We value all employees for their contribution to our business.
Does Heritage try to secure staff Opportunities for advancement are equal and not inuenced by considerations other than performance and aptitude.
Employees are locally or are there a large number of provided with the opportunity to develop their potential and, where expatriates in its areas of operation?
appropriate, to further their careers within the Group.
Heritage continues to operate with a high Staff are motivated to develop within a exible framework and are percentage of workers drawn from local encouraged to provide feedback on their expectations.
Local sourcing communities, as can be seen on page 1. is important to our business practices and we aim to contract services Where particular skill sets are not to local rms where possible.
For example, many of our transport available locally then expatriates are used and security needs have been fullled using local rms.
but training schemes are devised to help transfer skills to local labour.
Training of employees and contractors continued to receive high priority in 2012 and we have continued to invest heavily in this How important are staff within the area.
We believe there is a strong business case for investing in Heritage business model?
development of our workforce as this can result in efficiency savings, reduce time lost through injury and assist in identifying The success of Heritages business opportunities for improving our business.
modelis areectionof having experienced staff that enjoy working It is our responsibility to train all workers to provide better access to withinthe Company.
It is therefore job opportunities in the long term.
We emphasise transferable skills important to ensure that staff and a broad range of learning, as well as the basic aim of developing a arecorrectly remunerated and motivated knowledgeable, productive and happy workforce.
to develop their potential within the Group.
