HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT The business approach of Heritage is underpinned by CSR from the first stages of planning and being awarded a licence, through to exploration and production.
OUR CSR VISION CSR IN ACTION to be a responsible and transparent business in all the Our approach to CSRsupports our business model and sets areas in which the Company operates, believing this is out essential core values that we believe make Heritage a important to the operational aim of generating long-term good corporate citizen.
The Company sets itself a high growth for the Company: standard against which to measure itself and recognises the to create lasting legacies for local communities: importance of being a partner of choice.
to operate to the highest international social, environmental and safety standards: and Heritage aims to make a positive contribution in all areas to maintain high standards of corporate governance.
DEVELOPMENTS IN 2012 CSR encompasses the Companys management of approximately $971,000 spent on CSR related initiatives, relationships with stakeholders: shareholders, employees, c. 39% higher than 2011: contractors, partners and the local communities in which zero environmental incidents, fines or sanctions across we work.
In addition, it includes the impact the Company all operations: has on society and the environment.
zerofatalities and LTIs across all operations: OUR CSR STRATEGY zerobreaches in business conduct policies: employment of local peopleremains high across all SET P OLI CIE S operations: and commenced adoption ofHeritages CSR policies and systemsin the Shoreline joint venture.
DEVI SE AND MAINTAIN S Y STEM S For further information on CSR please see the CSR Report.
MEASURE AND M ONITO R PERF ORMANCE COMMUNICATE AND REPORT TO STAKEH OLDER S APPLY STAKEH OLDER FEEDBAC K Annual Review 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 11 OUR AREAS OF IMPACT AND OPPORTUNIT Y Heritage recognises specic Aim to make a positive contribution to global Environment and responsibilities in each of six core sustainability and to protect the environment sustainability areas of potential impact and opportunity, specic to the CSR aspects of our activities.
Adherence to A core element of all activities and a natural Health and safety these CSR values are viewed as a key priority factor in securing the long-term operational success of the Company.
We aim to apply targets, across our Our ability to create shareholder value is Employees identied areas of impact and linked with our ability to recruit and retain opportunity, to focus employees and high calibre staff enable the Company and stakeholders to monitor performance.
Active and enduring relationships are an Community and essentialand fundamental element of our humanrights business We maintain robust policies with respect to Business conduct all matters concerning our business conduct As a Company with a Premium Listing, Corporate governance Heritage maintains high corporate governance standards
