HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 10 ENVIRONMENT & SUSTAINABILITY Oil and gas operations have the potential to damage the environment but, if managed well, any negative impacts of activities can be minimised.
2012 HIGHLIGHTS POTENTIAL IMPACT AND OPPORTUNITY The potential environmental impact of our activities includes: once more we can report that we have had no the impact of wells, pipelines and other infrastructure with a major environmental incidents, such as spills, resulting effect on biodiversity: during the year: the accidental release of hydrocarbons or chemicals: and emissions which can affect air quality and can potentially be we conducted EIAs for all major work linked with climate change.
programmes in line with local regulations: and minimal gas was ared in Kurdistan during A strong environmental performance is key to maintaining our reputation and ability to generate shareholder value.
we undertake operations in accordance with the high international standards of the oil industry and EIAs are conducted before any major capital expenditure is incurred.
In doing so we maintain a reputation of being considered as a partner of choice.
MITIGATION OF IMPACT We have specic group requirements and recommendations governing our identication and management of potential impacts of projects that carry particular environmental and social risks: these apply to new projects and acquisition negotiations.
We have developed systems and practices that are designed to help us: identify and assess potential environmental impacts in the early stages of a project or acquisition: Number of environmental incidents take necessary action to mitigate impacts throughout our operations: and leave a limited footprint, in line with local regulations.
ZERO Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 11 OUR APPROACH Q&A We work to understand and manage the sensitivities of the Do the effects of the Companys environments in which we operate, and our responsibilities to them, throughout the lifecycle of our operations.
We are committed to activities on the environment represent making a positive contribution to the protection of the environment a material potential risk to its in areas in which we operate and aim to minimise any adverse effects shareholders and stakeholders?
We want to contribute positively to global sustainability through our operations, the development of our elds, During 2012, the Companys activities, the adoption of new technologies and the conduct of our prior to any mitigation, presented a small relationships with all stakeholders.
environmental impact, representing an immaterial risk to its shareholders and Due to the nature of exploration activities, we often operate in remote stakeholders.
locations, without access to grid electricity, where we are reliant on generators to power our equipment.
To minimise our impact in these How will Heritage prepare for areas, we are focused on restricting and reducing aring and using the mandatory reporting of GHG the highest standard, most energy efficient equipment available, emissions that comes into force in which also has the effect of reducing our energy costs.
Additionally, our camps and sites are designed to facilitate minimal environmental October 2013?
In the view of improving and achieving We identify and assess potential environmental impacts at the consistency in the accounting and planning stage of our operations.
We protect, as best we can, the reporting of GHG emissions resulting local environment during operations and aim to restore it to the same from Heritages activities, the Company standard that we found it in once activities are completed.
This will look at how this will impact on restoration activity is conducted in conjunction with local authorities reporting and consider and communities where we operate.
 for disclosure of GHG emissions.
None of our active operations during 2012 were in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value.
