SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2012, we continued to work with global ADDRESSING MAJOR HEALTH ISSUES PATIENTS organisations tond cures for the worlds As a leading pharmaceutical company with The well-being of patients is at the heart toughest ailments.
As in previous years, we widespread operations, global manufacturing ofeverything we do.
As we focus on providing contributed to the Global Fund to ght AIDS, facilities and a network of international partners, high quality, safe and effective medicines at Tuberculosis and Malaria.
We supported the we are in a strong position to aid in addressing affordable prices, we must implement best Global Funds MENA chapter and collaborated major health issues in our key markets.
practices in our manufacturing processes and with the public sector in Jordan on the In the MENA, where we generate more than adhere to international Good Manufacturing National Strategy to Combat Chronic Diseases, 60% of group sales, demographics are changing Practices GMPs.
In 2012, our Jordan, providing full support for awareness and rapidly, creating new patient requirements and SaudiArabia and Cherry Hill facilities were educational initiatives focused on chronic challenging governments and the private sector successfully inspected by the US FDA.
Cherry Hill diseases such as diabetes.
In the US, we worked to provide relevant and accessible treatments.
also passed itsMHRA inspection, a testament with the Susan Komen for the Cure Foundation, We are continuously working, through our to our ongoing commitment to patient safety the most widely known breast cancer own R&D and through alliances and partnerships, andhigh quality standards.
organisation in the United States, in a Race to bring patients in the region innovative During the year, we continued our for the Cure campaign, raising money to medicines and high quality, affordable generic efforts to provide information and patient fund the education, prevention and research alternatives that meet their needs across a education in our core therapeutic categories.
of breast cancer in the Mid-South.
At conferences held throughout the year This year, we hosted a team of fellows A key driver of our performance in the in the areas of anti-infectives, oncology, CNS, from Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT MENA region this year was our focus on the cardiovascular and diabetes, we brought Sloan Business School and the International promotion of cardiovascular and diabetes doctors and specialists together to discuss Finance Corporation IFC that were investigating products.
The incidence of heart disease and the latest advancements and treatments in how companies in emerging markets are diabetes has increased signicantly in recent these critical therapeutic areas.
These forums investing in sustainability and how they are years and so has the number of molecules help to educate doctors and improve their achieving business success.
Moreover, Hikma inour portfolio in these therapeutic areas.
As in previous years, we also was awarded the IFC Client Leadership Award, In 2012, we also strengthened our worked at the patient level, through public which recognised Hikma for its success in oncology pipeline.
Through a licensing and awareness programmes and events, to raise helping to treat patients in more than 50 supply agreement with GP Pharm, we added awareness of increasingly common health risks countries through providing vital affordable Lutrate 1 month, which prevents tumour like obesity and diabetes.
It was also recognised for its Raising public awareness about preventing growth in patients with advanced prostate commitment to local communities, for cancer.
This critical medication will help to and curing coronary problems took place in itssupport of female workers, for its address the issue of prostate cancer among collaboration with the World Heart Federation commitment to applying high environmental men, which is expected to increase as the in a global World Heart Day across the Group.
standards in production and for its commitment MENA faces a progressively ageing population.
We also sponsored a campaign with Jordan to education and training, especially through Breast Cancer Program for educating people internships for young people.
about breast cancer, early detection and encouraging women aged 40 years and older to have mammograms.
44 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Pharmacovigilance Clinical research WORLD HEART DAY Our Medical Affairs department is actively In the MENA, our Medical Affairs team engaged in Pharmacovigilance PV undertake clinical research activities and practices, relating to the detection, work with medical institutions, regulatory assessment, understanding and prevention authorities and clinical research organisations ofadverse effects or any other drug-related CROs to advance and improve healthcare problems.
In 2012, we engaged PV in the region.
consultantsto review our PV systems in the This year, we partnered with Ergomed to US, EU and MENA regions.
As we execute conduct the first clinical study in Jordan for therecommendations that came out of one of our key anti-cancer products, Cemivil thisreview, we expect to drive better imatinib.
In 2012, Cemivil was the first locally BREAST CANCER PROGRAM harmonization of PV efforts across allregions.
produced oncology generic product to be In February 2012, we sponsored the Dubai added to the formulary of the Jordan King MENA Drug Safety Summit in Dubai, United Hussein Cancer Center KHCC.
In December, a PV group Furthermore, we obtained approval of the meeting was held in Amman that brought Cemivil study protocol, by the Clinical Trial together experts from the Egyptian, Jordanian Committee of the Jordan Food and Drug and Tunisian health authorities and national Administration JFDA, to be initiated in pharmacovigilance centres.
This workshop theJordan University Hospital and KHCC.
investigated the legislation and guidelines Our decision to work with Ergomed stems regarding pharmacovigilance and drug safety from a strong commitment to continuous medical in the MENA and how they are being applied.
advancement through the use of clinical The Summit and the group meeting studies, especially in the eld of oncology, provided opportunities for our PV team to andwe have plans to extend this study to build stronger relationships with MENA other MENA markets.
health authorities, to investigate the potential forcollaboration and to creating a channel forthe advocacy of more harmonized pharmaceutical regulations.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Continued A key step toward the coordination This year, Hikma played an active role in Security of supply Maintaining a good supply of our products andharmonization of medical and product promoting smoke-free environments in the information this year was the consolidation private sector by inviting major Jordanian remains a key priority for us, particularly in the US market, which has suffered from acute ofa global pharmaceutical product inventory, businesses to a session with the Cancer King Hussein Cancer supply shortages of injectable products in containing the generic and Hikma brand Control Ofce of the names, marketing authorisation holders, Center to discuss the dangers of smoking in recent years.
In 2012, we increased production at both our Cherry Hill and Portugal injectable manufacturing sites and countries where the workplace.
As a follow up to this event, products are registered.
The product inventory aninformal coalition of smokefree Jordanian facilities in order to meet market demand for our products and address market shortages.
information is an essential tool for patients businesses was established.
During the year, we conducted our We also worked to alleviate supply shortages andphysicians.
Medical information efforts also comprised annual employee welfare week, the You Are in disrupted MENA markets.
Through medicinal donations, we worked to bring much needed a number of clinical and non-clinical overviews Hikma campaign.
A global initiative staged at and summaries that were developed to full a Hikma locations worldwide, You Are Hikma medicines to areas of crisis.
In-kind medicinal donations were donated to Libya, Gaza and Syria.
new requirement in registration applications in celebrates the Companys core values by raising several countries including Algeria, Azerbaijan, awareness among its staff of health, safety and Medical information Jordan, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Saudi Arabia environmental issues.
It emphasises personal We endeavour to provide our patients with and Tunisia.
empowerment, encouraging responsible accurate, comprehensive and relevant medical corporate citizenship among Hikma staff information on our products.
These practices PEOPLE andimproving their well being and quality ensure the ethical and credible promotion oflife through positive and valuable Health and safety ofour products.
Our responsibility covers educational activities.
Hikma is committed to its employees health delivering scientific knowledge tailored to the and safety.
We comply with workplace safety sales representatives needs.
standards OHSAS 18001 standards or their equivalents in our manufacturing facilities.
Mandatory occupational training has been conducted for all manufacturing operators.
To sustain a healthy work environment for our people, Hikma is a member of the Global Smokefree Partnership GSP, promoting effective smoke-free environments since 1994.
46 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 RAISING AWARENESS DIABETES OBESITY We also established a dedicated IT Training We are an equal opportunity employer, Training, education and performance measurement Center that is preparing training courses for promoting diversity and inclusion.
Hikma our corporate teams on a range employs more than 6,500 employees, 83% Through collaboration with HR, of IT needs, from training in Hikmas main of which are in the MENA countries, many CRresponsibilities have been ofcially added production systems to human resources and to CRchampions KPIs.
These responsibilities of which have high unemployment.
A quarter customer relationship management systems of our employees are female, which is double now represent 30% of their overall job responsibilities.
We now have 15 champions and project management PMP.
the regional average in the MENA.
Females Responsible sales are essential and are also make up 75% of Portugals workforce, across the Group, following the appointment of new champions in Sudan and Tunisia.
achieved by investing in Hikmas sales and and they occupy strategic top managerial marketing teams.
We continuously strive to positions across the r These champions drive the implementation G oup.
strengthen the capabilities of our sales and We invest in the communities in which we of our Group-wide CR strategy in Hikmas facilities worldwide.
Such are located, hiring local talent and developing trainings aim at ensuring the communication the skills of the communitys youth.
60% of We held our annual HR and CR training workshops for employees globally in October of evidence-based, well supported and employees were below the age of 30 in 2012. balanced messages to HCPs.
Training covers to touch base on main issues and introduce the our sales and marketing teams in the entire latest global trends in sustainable development geographical locations of Hikmas entities.
and further train our CR champions in GRI.
In 2012, we launched a leadership training Equal opportunities programme for middle managers with the We believe in the equal treatment of employees, American University of Beirut AUB.
The training respect for human rights, andaworkplace provides managers with the knowledge and free from discrimination, favouritism or skills needed for current and future positions at inequality in any form.
At Hikma, it is a priority Hikma, thus ensuring management succession that employees are comfortable in their work planning.
We have completed the training for environment.
We have an open door policy 41 of our managers this year and have already that ensures that grievances are heard and started to see positive results.
Throughout the year, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals, our subsidiary rotational meetings were conducted by the in the US, was recognised by the US Senator CEO with various departments to better of New Jersey as a stellar example of fruitful understand potential issues and concerns.
partnerships between business and colleges due to our continuous collaboration with Camden County College for the training of more than 300 employees.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Continued In Libya, Hikma was honoured by the Libyan Hurricane Sandy left many along the COMMUNITY Ministry of Health in July 2012 for timely New Jersey shore line and around our Eatontown Through community engagement and health medical donations worth USD 500,000 and facility with nothing.
Monetary donations, awareness campaigns we are investing in continuous community related initiatives.
toys, clothes and gift cards were collected the local communities in which we operate.
In the US, our team organised and hosted from our other US facilities to fund relief efforts We held our Global Volunteering Day in a week long on-site volunteer fair in June.
and support victims of the hurricane.
Also in April for the fifth consecutive year.
This year, Employees took the time to explore opportunities the US, the Annual Thanksgiving Food Drive volunteering activities included donating for community service with different local was held to benefit the FoodBank of Monmouth blood, refurbishing orphanages and participating organisations.
In October our US employees and Ocean Counties in a Neighbors Helping in public awareness campaigns.
Recognition took part in the Leukemia and Lymphoma Neighbors campaign.
This foodbank supports was given to active volunteers who participate Societys Light the Night Walk event and over 200 food pantries, soup kitchens, and every year, to encourage employee engagement collectively raised over USD 10,000 for the childrens meal programmes.
In addition to each walker raising Our businesses were also active throughout money, each facility ran rafes, bake sales, and the year in supporting their communities.
In Egypt volunteers hosted around 80 children from a local orphanage for a day full of music, puppet-shows and educational games.
In Jordan, we renewed our partnership with the UNRWA in sponsoring 30,000 underprivileged children to enter the Childrens Museum, an interactive educational museum for children of all ages.
48 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Hikma partnered with Self Energy and Nakhil In 2011, we were invited to collaborate ENVIRONMENT with the International Standards Organization Jordanian Investment and Trading Company Across the Group, we aim to minimise toexplore optimal ways to reduce energy ISO, the Jordan Standards and Metrology our environmental impact by integrating costs, carbon emissions and our reliance on Organization JSMO and the Swedish environmental policies and activities into our electricity.
The project included an energy International Development Cooperation day-to-day business.
New machinery installed andpower utilisation assessment of our Agency SIDA on a projectabout the use in two of our facilities in Jordan will help and implementation of the ISO 26000 facilities in six markets, including Jordan, lower energy consumption and reduce Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Algeria.
certication for Social Responsibility within carbon emissions.
While providing a clear We also continued to monitor theMENA.
In 2012, we took part in a related environmental benefit, this project will also our performance against environmental Key developing country workshop, where we drive cost savings, through reductions in Performance Indicators KPIs.
These KPIs are presented our experiences and joined a panel electric, fuel and water consumption.
on social responsibility best practices.
aligned with the Carbon Disclosure Project We are increasingly working to monitor CDP and the Global Reporting Initiative GRI our environmental impact.
In 2012, an ISO reporting guidelines, which we have been 14001 surveillance audit was conducted at the reporting against for three years.
Carbon main plant in Jordan by SGS Jordan auditors.
emissions were analysed in our operations This was successfully completed, resulting in and this year we supplied information on the re-certication.
ISO 14001 certication was six greenhouse gases.
also renewed in our plant in Egypt.
This facility Initiatives have been put in place to was also granted the ISO 9001 certicate for promote the recycling of old computers, quality management, valid until 2015. printers and furniture.
These are redistributed across business units or donated externally tocharitable organisations.
Since desertication isan issue in the MENA region, we try to focus on opportunities where we can enhance the local natural environment.
This year we hosted an Arbour Day event, encouraging the local community to plant trees and become aware of their natural habitat.
We also collaborated with several organisations that promote planting trees.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Continued BUSINESS ETHICS Animal Welfare Upholding the highest standards The welfare of animals is an ethical and Our business ethics are central to the way we of ethical conduct is one of our essential part of our responsibility.
As a leading healthcare core principles.
We are continuously animal welfare has become a worldwide company, we strive to overcome todays social accepted practice and requirement for working to ensure all aspects and economic challenges by staying focused pharmaceutical and manufacturing standards of our global operations are carried on upholding the highest ethical conduct in as a whole.
We are committed to safe everything we do.
out with integrity and reliability.
guarding the welfare of animals in the choices that it makes.
We remain committed to our Human Rights We do not conduct any in-house testing Continuing with our ethical journey, we principle of combating corruption.
and, where required in a few specic renewed our membership in UN Global circumstances, the company requests external Compact in December 2012, renewing our organisations to conduct animal testing on our commitment to aligning operations and behalf.
No animal testing was conducted on strategies with the ten universally accepted our behalf in 2012.
Aspecic animal testing principles in terms of human rights, labour, policy formalises our activities, and the environment and anti-corruption.
In doing following is an excerpt from the policy: sowe have demonstrated how we respect Where animal testing is required, Hikma and protect internationally proclaimed human is committed to the principles of the 3R rights, and are not complicit in matters of Research Foundation Reduce, Rene and human rights abuses, child labour, forced Replace The 3Rs of animal testing from the andcompulsory labour and take proactive Swiss-based 3R Research Foundation are: measures to eliminate them.
For further 3 Replace: Use alternatives to animal testing reading, the Communication On Progress whenever possible report is available on www.
com and 3 Reduce: Improve existing methods so that www.
fewer laboratory animals are required Our updated Code of Conduct was 3 Rene: Rene existing methods so that published in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The animals are exposed to as little discomfort Code and its supporting policies require that and stress as possible.
our employees uphold the highest ethical standards in their employment and reect our commitment to human rights.
The Code of Conduct was sent out across the Group andhas been translated into the five main languages of our locations: English, Arabic, Portuguese, French and German and it is available on our website.
50 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Our image as a responsible and trusted Board Oversight Compliance Suppliers Responsibility and Ethics Committee organisation is important to us.
The supply chain process at our manufacturing Communication standards were formalised CREC facilities chooses significant suppliers that in 2012 to maintain a unied image across our uphold ethical practices and donot break with The CREC oversees our ethical business platforms, which encompass the virtual online conduct.
Within its oversight fall the functions internationally proclaimed integrity measures.
An extensive social media of Corporate Compliance and Corporate Our suppliers follow Good Manufacturing Responsibility.
policy was distributed to our employees Practices GMP and our significant suppliers worldwide and has become part of their It is through the Compliance framework are ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certied or adopted by CREC that theCode of Conduct employment contract to ensure responsible their equivalent.
and ethical participation in both Hikma has been updated and launched.
For further Recognition endorsed and other social media platforms.
details of the work of the CREC in relation Recognition was received in 2012 for our to corporate compliance, the CREC Report is Wealso created formal Hikma accounts in excellence in implementing ethical standards, themain and relevant social media outlets.
available on pages 79 to 81. transparency measures and high human We welcome external stakeholder Transparency Measures rightsand labour standards in our facilities engagement and are transparent in our We are dedicated to sustain anti-bribery inallour locations.
We were nominated for business activities.
Our sense of responsibility andanti-corruption mechanisms across BestInvestor Communications Award and and transparency was displayed in our itsbusiness.
The CREC and Compliance wereselected for the International Finance cooperation and openly responding to ethical department along with the Corporate Corporation IFC Award for being an audit organisations, which in turn helped our Responsibility division have joined efforts to exemplary company in terms of CR, female ethical investment opportunities making Hikma maintain transparent and stringent measures employment, community efforts and youth a more attractive prospect for green investors.
As a founding member of Partnering Code of Conduct obliges employees to abide We were also chosen for the Arabian Business Against Corruption Initiative PACI, an initiative by transparency measures and has greater Healthcare company of 2012 Award for our created by the World Economic Forum, we focus on integrity.
At Hikma, we conduct leading position in the MENA.
continued to work with businesses around our business in adherence to principles of In April 2012, the CR Department of our the globe to combat bribery and corruption, quality, integrity, transparency, dignity and Saudi Arabian facility, JPI, was registered in the as this initiative requires a commitment to respect forall.
Chamber of Commerce in Riyadh as one of the zero tolerance of bribery in all its forms.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 51 BUILDING ON OUR WORLD-CLASS MANUFACTURING AND API SOURCING CAPABILITIES IMPROVING LIVES......
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT OF A HIGH QUALITY, SECURE SUPPLY CHAIN In 2012, we invested in developing our produce the API in Jordan, manufacture in-house Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient the product in Portugal and sell it in the API sourcing capabilities by USmarket.
expandingour FDA approved chemical The expansion of this plant means we can plant in Jordan, we are developing and accommodate new lines for manufacturing manufacturing API for certain key strategic APIs.
This will enable us, for example, to products, particularly where there are a vertically integrate production for certain limited number of API suppliers in the oncology products in MENA, such as market or where the API is very expensive zoledronic acid.
We will continue exploring additional This facility also allows us to develop and opportunities to leverage our API facilities manufacture API at an earlier stage in the in the production of products across our formulation process, accelerating the therapeutic areas.
speed at which we are able to bring new This approach to ensuring a high quality, products to market.
Today, this facility is secure supply chain is helping us to helping us be vertically integrated on key improve lives across our markets.
products like enalaprilat, where we COUNTRY JORDAN POPULATION SIZE HEALTHCARE EXPENDITURE LIFE EXPECTANCY 1 1 1 MILLION % OF GDP YEARS 6.5 8% 80 1 CIA The World Factbook 52 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 53
