4.2 COMMITTEE REPORTS OPEN FOR DISCUSSION Call 44 20 7399 2760 COMPLIANCE, or E-mail: investors@hikma.
com RESPONSIBILITY ANDETHICS LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder This has been the second full year of operation for the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee.
Over the year we have continued to develop our programme for Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ABC compliance and formalised our oversight of Hikmas Corporate Responsibility CR programme.
I am pleased to report on the progress we have made towards linking Hikmas strong culture of ethics with formal processes and procedures to help ensure ABC compliance and strengthen our marketplace activities.
Our ABC Programme moved on signicantly during the year, following the completion of the risk assessment in 2011.
The major developments have been the: 1.
Adoption and publication of an enhanced Code of Conduct, which has been translated into the functional languages of Hikma and fully implemented across the Group.
The new Code COMPLIANCE, RESPONSIBILITY ANDETHICS of Conduct is available on our website: REPORT 2.
Drafted a full suite of ABC policies designed to meet the 79 Letter from the Chairman requirements identied by our risk assessment.
This was undertaken 80 Our Highlights with the assistance of an external consultant with significant industry 80 Membership and attendance experience in this area: and 80 Responsibilities 3.
Continuing steps forward in the training and education of our 80 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ABC employees enhancing both their understanding of ABC matters and 80 Compliance Architecture our processes for the discussion of concerns.
81 ABC Risk Assessment Our oversight of and input into Hikmas CR programme has moved 81 Code of Conduct to another level over the course of the year.
The key points I would like 81 ABC Policies and Procedures to highlight to you are: 81 Training 1.
We formalised the reporting relationship for the Corporate 81 Speak-up Re RE sponsibility Committee to the C C: and 81 Corporate Responsibility 2.
The Corporate Responsibility teams regular presentation of developments in Corporate Responsibility initiatives to the CREC.
In 2013, the CREC will be focused on the on-going development of our compliance programme, and further training and education of our employees to build understanding of compliance issues across the Group.
This will continue to give our people the tools and information they need to make good decisions when they are faced with ethical issues.
As an organization Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
I remain open to discussion with shareholders should there be any concerns that they wish to raise directly.
Dr. Ronald Goode Chairman of the Compliance, Responsibility andEthics Committee HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 79 4.2 COMMITTEE REPORTS Non-Executive Director, Dr Ronald Goode, and the Chairman of the Compliance, Responsibility &Ethics Audit Committee is a standing member.
Within the Company, the continued Executive Vice Chairman champions Hikmas Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC and Corporate Responsibility CR programmes.
OUR HIGHLIGHTS Responsibilities X 64% employees certication against the new Code of Conduct The CREC sets the overall strategy for the Groups response to bribery X Increased understanding and engagement with the ABC and corruption risks and is responsible for approving the contents of programme across Hikma allof the businesss policies in areas where ethical judgements are important.
The CREC therefore oversees the Groups ABC Compliance X Full management consultation on the standardisation of Programme, together with Group policies on ethics and business ABC policies conduct.
The CREC reviews Group policy in the area of CR at a Board X Initiated externally facilitated speak up hotlines level and is supported in this work by the CR Committee.
The CREC is responsible for overseeing the development of the Groups Code of X Direct oversight of the CSR programme, with frequent reports Conduct the Code, though formal ownership, and final approval of and updates.
the Code, or any changes to it, lies with the Board of Directors.
It is the CRECs responsibility to own the framework for ABC compliance within r the G oup and to ensure that it operates adequately and effectively.
The CREC also oversees Hikmas Speak-Up process for employees to ALLOCATION OF TIME raise ethical concerns, and, where relevant, oversees their investigation.
Diversity 12% The CRECs terms of reference are reviewed by the Board on a regular 1 basis.
The terms of reference are available on the Hikma website and by 2.
Board evaluation 24% 2 6 contacting investors@hikma.
Skills and experience 8% Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ABC 4.
Succession 24% Quality and excellence have been the heart of Hikma since its 5 5.
Independence 16% foundation, and Hikma has always been committed to the highest 3 6.
Corporate governance 16% standards of integrity and ethics in the conduct of its business.
Hikma 4 has a zero tolerance of bribery and corruption.
Hikma will not penalise any individual for complying with the principles enshrined in the Code or in our ABC policies, even at the cost of forgoing a business Membership and attendance opportunity, losing revenue or profit or disobeying a superiors MEMBERS MEETINGS ATTENDANCE instructions.
Hikma will discipline staff for ethical breaches in order Dr Ronald Goode Chairman 100% tomaintain its high standards of integrity.
Mazen Darwazah 100% Compliance Architecture Breffni Byrne 100% The Group has created a framework that sets out the structure of Robert Pickering 100% leadership, delegated authority and ownership for Hikmas ABC Total meetings 7 compliance programme.
Operational responsibility and oversight for compliance is assigned by the Board to the Executive Vice Chairman, who then delegates responsibility to his management team.
The Head INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS of Compliance reports directly to the CREC on compliance matters and X General Counsel X Compliance Consultant his leadership of ABC issues is overseen by the CREC Chairman and the X Group Compliance Manager Executive Vice Chairman.
He is supported by a Group Compliance X Company Secretary Manager.
The heads of each business division have taken responsibility to be X Director of Communications the compliance champion for their division.
They set the tone for business integrity in their operations.
Our Compliance Champions are: The Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC consists of four members.
Three are independent Non-Executive Directors: Ronald Goode Committee Chairman, Breffni Byrne and Robert X Bassam Kanaan Branded Pickering.
The fourth member is the Executive Vice Chairman, X MazenDarwazah.
The CREC met seven times during the year, Riad Mishlawi Injectables andfullattendance was achieved.
X Michael Raya US & Generics As the CREC is not a committee mandated by the Code, its membership is not subject to published requirements.
However, Hikma believes that the requisite challenge to operational effectiveness is This aligns the ownership of good compliance behaviours with the achieved by having an independent non-executive director membership day-to-day business operations.
The Chairmanship of the CREC is held by an independent 80 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 been built within the business for the processes and issues of ABC ABC Risk Assessment As reported in last years Annual Report, in 2011 Hikma undertook a compliance, with training given to functional and geographical teams across the group, with a particular focus on the MENA region.
Formal full ABC risk assessment.
This was performed by the Good Corporation, an independent body who have specialized in business ethics and board training on ABC compliance issues was also performed during the year.
This training and communication continues to enhance integrity for over a decade.
Good Corporation visited each of our major employees understanding of bribery and corruption risks, and areas of operation to perform this risk assessment.
As reported, a significant conclusion from the exercise was that increases the penetration of compliance issues into the decision-making process for business departments as they consider existing and new Hikma has a strong ethical culture that is deeply embedded within its operations.
Code of Conduct Speak-up The Board understands that it is critical for employees to be able to In conjunction with undertaking the development of our ABC policies, raise concerns on issues of integrity without retribution and that we undertook a full review of Hikmas existing code of conduct.
We benchmarked this code against good industry practice and a peer appropriate methods of voicing such concerns be available to them.
Hikma has always encouraged an environment in which full, free, group of international companies.
We also undertook a full internal consultation, encompassing a broad cross-section of management and frank discussions can be held on issues that concern its employees.
Therefore, Hikma has an open door policy regarding communication so and benefitted from the input of our external Compliance Consultant.
that it can hear from those who have any questions or concerns about The updated Code was reviewed by the CREC and proposed to the Board, where it was fully supported.
The new Code has now been the ethics and integrity of the business.
As part of their commitment to the Code employees understand translated into the major functional languages of Hikma: English, Arabic, French, German and Portuguese.
that they have a duty to report any suspected violations of the Code, of Hikmas policies or any applicable law or regulations.
Each year Hikma employees are required to confirm that they have read the Code, have understood it and will abide by its terms.
Hikma encourages employees to report these concerns, and where Employees also confirm that they understand their obligations to report employees believe that it is not possible or appropriate to report to line management, they may make reports condentially to any senior events of suspected non-compliance with the Code.
This was performed in 2012 using the new Code, covering 64 per cent of the manager within the business.
In 2012 we implemented a dedicated and anonymous telephone employees of the business.
The Code is available on our website: reporting line in the US, and added to this with additional telephone and online reporting processes in the EU at the beginning of 2013.
com en  code-of-conduct also tested a MENA region reporting line, which we are assessing for ABC Policies and Procedures roll out over the course of this year.
Reports coming through these lines Using the information gained from the ABC risk assessment, our are reviewed by a management Compliance Committee established for primary focus in 2012 has been the design and development of new this purpose and by the Chairman of CREC for potential consideration ABC policies, aimed to link our ethical culture to more formal processes.
ngaged an external Compliance Consultant to assist with We e Hikma investigates all reports of non-compliance and takes thought leadership for the development of our framework and policies.
We continue to encourage all our employees to He brought considerable industry expertise to the Group both in improve our business by taking advantage of our desire for an open relation to the design of effective mechanisms for the management of and constructive dialogue.
ABC risks, and also the implementation processes required for the resulting policies and their supporting procedures.
Corporate Responsibility During the year, the Compliance Consultant worked with the The Executive Vice Chairman champions Hikmas Corporate Responsibility programme within the Company and is Chairman of compliance function to produce a full suite of ABC policies, together with a framework for their operation and procedures for their Hikmas Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Director of Communications is responsible for CR at an operational level.
A full consultation with executive management is on-going, encompassing the advice and support of the Compliance The CREC Chairman, Director of Communications, divisional and Champions, and senior functional and line management within each functional heads, and Company Secretary are members of the CR Committee.
The CR Committee reviews, supports and promotes business division and each significant geography.
This process has been undertaken in order to ensure that the policies can and will be applied Hikmas CR activities and reports directly to the CREC.
The CR team, led by the Director of Communications, regularly consistently at every level throughout Hikma.
The focus of the Compliance Department and the Compliance present developments to the CREC.
Please see pages 41 to 53 for the Champions for 2013 will be to nalise these policies and commence Groups Corporate Responsibility report.
their implementation across the Group.
For and on behalf of the Compliance Responsibility Training and Ethics Committee The development of our policies has been undertaken in conjunction with our on-going focus on education and dissemination of ABC compliance information across the business.
Dr. Ronald Goode During the year, our employee induction programmes have been Committee Chairman 12 March 2013 updated to ensure that each new employee can clearly understand the Groups ethical expectations.
In addition, increasing awareness has HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 81
