42 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Dear shareholder Hochschild safety day I am pleased to introduce this section of the 2012 see page 46 Annual Report in which we highlight how our Digital Chalhuanca see page 53 sustainability commitments have translated into actions during 2012, and the challenges we have The Groups first carbon footprint study set ourselves for the current financial year.
see page 55 Our stakeholder approach to business is something that we have always done, a long time before the concept of sustainability was widely adopted across the mining sector.
This year, we have captured this foundation upon which our strategy is formulated through the phrase Operating Responsibly.
We are acutely aware of the perception of the industry and its potential impact on IN THIS SECTION communities and the environment and we are therefore keen to engage with all interested groups so that expectations and needs can be managed and met.
Safety see page 46 We consider safety to be no less important than our strategic business priorities.
Despite our ongoing commitment, it is with deep regret that there were four fatalities Health & hygiene at our operations during the year.
We remain steadfast in our view that every fatality see page 48 is avoidable and so we will continue to monitor and review our controls and invest in Our people training as required.
see page 50 Key developments in 2012 Working together with We are very proud that during 2012, the Group joined a select number of companies in local communities Peru to have embedded sustainability policies and procedures within their businesses see page 52 and, in doing so, have received the Socially Responsible Company accreditation.
Managing our environmental impact see page 55 Workers at Arcata Business review p14-61 www.
com 43 Management felt that safety needed to be tackled with increased vigour and, for this reason, 14 November 2012 was designated the Groups Safety Day.
All mining activity was suspended whilst brie ngs and training sessions were held across all sites.
For me personally, nothing is more important than providing a safe workplace for all, and so I was pleased to be able to participate in a video recording in which I reiterated the Groups commitment to the wellbeing of our people.
We launched a number of new initiatives during the year, most notably Digital Chalhuanca.
This, our agship project, led to the installation of internet facilities in the town of Chalhuanca in Apurimac close to our Selene and Pallancata operations.
As detailed on page 53, the project aims to provide better communication facilities to facilitate education and commerce.
I am very proud that this initiative has received recognition for its innovation and, moreover, has been replicated in other parts of Peru.
We commissioned the Groups first base line study to better understand our carbon footprint.
We all have a part to play in conserving the limited resources we have access to and Hochschild Mining has started the process of understanding the level of greenhouse gases produced by the Group and identifying the sources of opportunity to reduce emissions.
We rely on the goodwill of the members of the local communities to be able to operate and so it is imperative that we involve them closely in our planning processes in order to address their needs and take account of their concerns.
As stated in the Environmental section of this report, this type of engagement represented the critical milestones achieved during the year in the development of our Advanced Projects, Inmaculada and Crespo.
Priorities for 2013 We will continue to focus our eff orts in pursuit of our objective of zero accidents and the elimination of fatalities.
We have already embarked on this journey with a series of communications ensuring that the message of Safety First is adopted by all.
Reporting in this area will continue to evolve as this year we will be producing our first standalone Sustainability Report which will be compiled under the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative.
Whilst we continue in our endeavours, our progress to date is testimony to the teams of people who work across numerous functions and to them I wish to express my gratitude for their support and dedication.
Eduardo Hochschild Executive Chairman and Chairman of the CSR Committee 44 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report continued Governance to consider, at an operational level, local health and safety policies, What is Hochschild Minings approach to Sustainability?
environmental programmes, community relations and employee To ensure that our values are adhered to, we have adopted matters.
These meetings are, also, attended by members of the a number of policies which demonstrate our commitment to: Groups Legal and HR functions.
a safe and healthy workplace Whilst each area has its dedicated area of focus, they often managing and minimising the environmental impact of collaborate with each other as required, for example in the our operations provision of health services to the communities.
encouraging sustainability by respecting the communities Terms of Reference of the CSR Committee in which we operate Under its terms of reference, the CSR Committee is tasked with: We prioritise these three areas in terms of resource allocation, evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems with respect to governance, policy development and performance for identifying and managing health, safety and environmental measurement.
In our efforts to achieve the above objectives, risks within the Groups operations: we seek to: assessing the policies and systems within the Group for comply with all relevant legislation and leading ensuring compliance with health, safety and environmental international standards regulatory requirements: promote continuous improvement of our management assessing the performance of the Group with regard to systems with the aim of incorporating best practice the impact of health, safety, environmental and community adopt a proactive approach to preventing and managing relations decisions and actions upon employees, communities the risks that may limit the achievement of our corporate and other third parties.
It shall also assess the impact of such responsibility objectives decisions and actions on the reputation of the Group: encourage employees to adopt the Groups values through receiving reports from management concerning all fatalities the use of training and internal communications.
and serious accidents within the Group and actions taken by management following each incident: Management of Sustainability evaluating and overseeing, on behalf of the Board, the The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group quality and integrity of any reporting to external stakeholders policies relating to sustainability and ensuring that national concerning health, safety, environmental and community and international standards are met.
The Corporate Social relations issues: and Responsibility CSR Committee has been established as a formal committee of the Board with delegated responsibility for various reviewing the results of independent audits commissioned sustainability issues, focusing on compliance with national and onthe Groups performance in regard to health, safety, international standards and ensuring that appropriate systems environmental or community relations matters: reviewing and practices are in place Group-wide to ensure the effective anystrategies and action plans developed by management management of  risks.
Eduardo Hochschild inresponse to issues raised and, where appropriate, making has Board-level responsibility for sustainability issues.
recommendations to the Board concerning the same.
A working group of relevant personnel meets on a monthly basis to support the work of the CSR Committee and is tasked GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR SUSTAINABILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS CSR COMMITTEE HR WORKING GROUP LEGAL COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT HEALTH & HYGIENE SAFETY RELATIONS Business review p14-61 www.
com 45 considered updates from the work done across the Group to The CSR Committees work in 2012 manage community and labour relations.
During the year, the CSR Committee: In addition, during the year the full Board received presentations on: reviewed the investigations into the four fatalities that occurred during the year and the action plans formulated by the Groups HR function and, looking ahead, the medium to long management to implement the associated recommendations: term resourcing strategy to achieve our business goals: and approved the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report: the social issues in Peru and their impact on the mining sector.
monitored the execution of the yearly plan in each of the four key areas of focus: considered the ongoing progress of the implementation of a Read more about how we mitigate social and environmental risks to 61 our business number of internationally accredited management information systems to control and monitor sustainability related risks: Our commitment to Sustainability is re ected in our Executive Remuneration 82 policy.
For more details see the Directors remuneration report monitored the status of the Group-wide initiatives launched to raise the pro le of safe working practices to assist with accident prevention: and Workers at Arcata 46 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report continued Safety Our achievements in 2012 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Continued implementation of the DNV safety management Reduction in Accident Launch of the system at all operating units and Advanced Projects to Frequency Index inaugural Hochschild support the Groups proactive approach to safety.
Safety Day across Compliance with the international standard, OHSAS entire operations 9% 18001:2007, was certi ed in respect of the Peruvian and Argentinian operations.
Training has been a key focus in 2012 with: the design and roll out, in conjunction with DNV, of a course entitled Internal Audits and OHSAS 18001:2007 for personnel at the operating units, Advanced Projects and exploration projects: The Hochschild approach to safety the strengthening of the  training Mining has an inherently high risk pro le and safety is of brigades to intermediate level: our highest priority.
Ensuring the safety of the Groups employees is considered crucial in measuring the successful the provision of the Training the Trainer course at the implementation of corporate strategy to which the Board Selene unit on hazard identi cation, risk assessment and management are committed.
and control in conjunction with Expectra, a leading risk management consultancy based in South Africa The Group regrets that there were four fatalities during the year.
With Expectras support, the Group commenced the In the first incident, a scoop operator at the Pallancata operation implementation of the Control of Fatal Risks software was fatally injured after a water pump exploded.
The second which will assist the Group in developing its safety fatality occurred, also at Pallancata after a scoop operator lost strategy based on the integration of principles of control of his vehicle whilst reversing down a hill.
The third changing organisational behaviour: incident occurred at Arcata, where an assistant driller was overwhelmed by noxious fumes and the fourth occurred at The holding of the first Hochschild Safety Day Ares where a driller sustained injuries from a rockfall.
on 14 November 2012 see box below Circumstances leading to these tragic events have been The holding of the Luis Hochschild Safety Innovation investigated by management, reported to the Board and the Award which, in 2012, aimed to raise the bar on the resulting recommendations implemented.
quality of proposals and, as a result, increase their After each accident, the Group suspends operations at the mine impact on safety.
to conduct an internal review of the relevant safety procedures and carry out safety brie ngs.
CASE STUDY: HOCHSCHILD SAFETY DAY 14 NOVEMBER 2012 After the occurrence of the third fatality at the Groups operations, management felt that a concerted eff ort focused onsafety was required to highlight its importance.
Operations across the entire Group were stopped whilst a tailored programme of brie ngs, training sessions and roundtable discussions was held.
During the day, a video of the Chairman was shown in which he delivered a personal message in support of the initiative and emphasised the importance of safe working both to the employees and to their families.
Mine workers at a safety brie ng session Business review p14-61 www.
com 47 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2012 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary 6% reduction in LTIFR A 9% reduction was achieved The Company seeks to achieve the following with respect to the DNV safety management system: Maintain and further develop current Ares Level 5 levels of implementation at Peruvian and Arcata & Pallancata Level 7 Argentinian units San Jose Level 6 Level 3 at the Inmaculada Project To launch a safety awareness campaign highlighting A campaign was launched highlighting the potential impact on family life the importance of safety to all employees see details of the Hochschild Safety Day To evaluate the eff ectiveness of the Fatal Risk Control Initial evaluation was completed in 2012 with software at the Pallancata unit with a view to rolling it a further assessment being undertaken in out to other operating units 2013 to fully understand its impact on safety To provide training to the Groups emergency brigades Partial A training programme was commenced and to advanced level practical steps taken to equip the Groups emergency teams SAFETY INDICATORS 2012 2011 2010 2009 Fatal accidents 4 322 Accidents leading to an absence of one day or more 81 81 66 79 1 LTIFR 3.33 3.63 3.70 5.22 2 Accident Severity Index 1,058 910 777 1,485 3 Accidentability rate 3.52 3.30 2.88 7.76 1 Calculated as total number of accidents per million labour hours.
2 Calculated as total number of days lost per million labour hours.
3 Calculated as LTIFR x Accident Severity divided by 1,000.
2013 TARGETS 5% reduction in LTIFR 20% reduction in Accident Severity Rate Achieve the following levels of implementation of the DNV software: Ares Level 6 Arcata & Pallancata Selene Upper Level 7 San Jose Upper Level 6 Inmaculada Project Upper Level 3 internal certi cation 48 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report continued Health & hygiene The Hochschild approach to health & hygiene 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Underlining the importance we place on our people and their Reduction in work-related Continued focus wellbeing, the Groups Health and Hygiene team is tasked incidences requiring on physical as well as with providing an integrated approach to employee welfare.
1 medical attention psychological health Whilst the Health team has been established to ensure that employees have access to the relevant services and 43% infrastructure to ensure that treatment can be provided, the Hygiene team look to reinforce the importance of the quality 1 In Peru and San Jose.
of life at work and seek to work in the prevention of occupational illness.
Given the nature of the work, and the operation of two week shifts requiring mineworkers to spend extended periods away from their families, the Group recognises the importance of ensuring the mental wellbeing of its employees.
For this reason, the Groups Health & Hygiene teams are also trained in occupational psychology.
Our achievements in 2012 The preparation of a baseline study to identify and evaluate the health risks at two of the Groups exploration projects in Peru: Increased level of support provided to the Health & Safety Co-ordinator for Exploration & Geology: A baseline study was completed to evaluate the psychological hazards present at exploration projects: Supported the Community Relations team with a number of projects including the Medico fide Cabecera initiative.
A training session co-ordinated by the Health & Hygiene team on the Industrial Hygiene risks at the Apacheta exploration project in Peru Business review p14-61 www.
com 49 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2012 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary Complete the uploading of data onto the Health and Data was uploaded with respect to the Hygiene SAP module Peruvian and Argentinian operations and will serve as a useful monitoring tool To establish a programme of monitoring occupational A programme to monitor occupational disease for research purposes and ultimately improving disease was established during the year in the provision of our service Peru and Argentina To develop the psychology programme for our units and Occupational psychology programmes were Advanced Projects established at the units and Advanced Projects HEALTH INDICATORS 2012 2011 2010 2009 Average number of medical attendances at Peruvian operations and at San Jose, per month 3,376 3,065 2,961 2,690 Average number of work-related incidences requiring medical attention at Peruvian operations and at San Jose, per month 18 32 26 25 Average number of occupational health examinations at the Groups wholly-owned Peruvian operations and Moris, per month 441 396 237 406 2013 TARGETS To rede ne health services provided at San Jose To be prepared to ensure continued compliance with relevant requirements in light of new Health & Hygiene regulations expected to come into force in Peru in 2013 To implement the Health & Hygiene SAP module at the Inmaculada Project 50 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report continued Our people Managing our talent 2012 HIGHLIGHTS During the year, development plans for those holding critical Percentage of Average number of hours of positions identi ed as part of the Groups Talent Inventory workforce trained training per year per employee Review TIR were implemented.
Creating a better place to work 90% 52 hours The Group continues to make use of an Organisational Climate Survey OCS which has embedded itself as a key tool to measure levels of satisfaction amongst employees and identifying opportunities for further development.
The survey held in 2010 resulted in over 360 recommendations with the aim of improving the working environment.
The Company commissioned the 2012 OCS in collaboration with the Hay Group which showed an overall increase in employee The Hochschild approach to our people satisfaction of 8%.
The speci c findings of the survey will, after Training and development evaluation, again result in an action plan for implementation The quality of our people is key to the success of the business in during the year.
achieving its strategic objectives and we therefore seek to attract and retain the best people.
The Groups HR team adopts various Embedding a safety first culture techniques to ensure that our people contribute to the Companys Whilst the focus in the early part of 2012 was on reinforcing the success which include the provision of competitive remuneration, Groups core corporate values through training, brie ngs and a positive working environment through the Organisational team events, the focus later in the year changed to one of Climate Survey and ongoing professional development.
consolidating a safety first culture which is set to continue.
Group values and labour relations Resourcing for the future One of the primary responsibilities of the HR team is to ensure A global recruitment strategy was designed and established the clear ongoing communication of the Groups corporate values: across the Group during 2012.
Implementation of the strategy Integrity, Teamwork, Quality and Excellence, Responsibility and commenced in November 2012 with a visit to the University of Commitment to our People.
These values are embodied in our Arizona to recruit future mining engineers which will be followed Code of Conduct which, amongst other things, sets out our by similar initiatives in 2013. commitment to the fair treatment of all employees and the right to be free of harassment or intimidation in the workplace.
We recognise the core labour rights principles and, in this respect, support the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Approximately 56% of our total workforce is represented by a trade union or similar body.
Our achievements in 2012 The Groups team of HR professionals has undertaken a number of initiatives during 2012 to further their shared objective of ensuring the Group is appropriately resourced for the future challenges.
The following highlights some of the work carried out during the year.
Developing our people The third leadership workshop for senior management took place in Lima facilitated by IAE Business School.
For operational middle-management, the second stage of the Developing Leaders programme was held in Peru and Argentina, and, for operational managers, a tailored leadership workshop was designed for delivery in 2013.
The exploration team continued with a programme entitled High Performance Team.
com 51 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2012 OBJECTIVES Target Status Implement the development plans designed as part of the Talent Inventory Review Continue with the entire leadership programme at all levels of management Start the second stage of the Developing Leaders programme for middle-management in Peru and Argentina Achieve a three point increase in the Organisational Climate Survey against the results of the last survey commissioned in 2010 Establish a global recruitment strategy PEOPLE INDICATORS 2012 2011 2010 2009 General Average number of Group employees and contractors 7,557 6,395 5,776 4,969 Training Average number of hours of training undertaken per employee during the year 52.03 37.86 16.86 14.03 Percentage of workforce trained during the year 90% 90% 87% 94% Labour relations Number of production days lost as a result of industrial unrest 7 28 1 40.5 2013 TARGETS Implement improved talent identi cation process and continue with the implementation of development plans Continue with the entire leadership programme for all levels of management Implement the leadership programme for operational management Establish alliances with leading universities as part of the Groups recruitment strategy Members of middle management at the San Jose mine participating in the Developing Leaders programme held during the year in collaboration with the Hay Group 52 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report continued Working together with local communities Elementary & Secondary Education We worked with over The Hochschild approach to working with 50 local elementary schools and over 2,000 students with our communities the goal of improving their basic literacy skills.
We partnered We have, since the Groups early days, shaped our communitywith local NGOs to deliver their established programmes oriented activities to establish positive relationships with the which also involved parents and community members in local communities and to contribute to their development.
We the education of their children.
In secondary education, we try to do this by applying the following principles: delivered Training of Young Entrepreneurs in partnership foster mutual respect and co-existence with local communities with Junior Achievement Worldwide achieve mutually bene cial agreements Leadership Skills for Teachers in conjunction with the technical education institute, TECSUP, workshops for teachers improve the quality of life of community residents from Arequipa and Ayacucho were held on various subjects improve the health, education and nutrition of local including social skills and eff ective communication to community members enhance their roles.
encourage good relationships and co-ordination with Digital Inclusion Continuing the programme launched stakeholders to promote sustainable development in 2011, where over 300 teachers were trained in the use of technology as an educational tool, 2012 saw the delivery of Community Relations strategic review more advanced initiatives on class preparation.
In addition, we Hochschild has medium and long term visions of its supported students in implementing projects through the use relationship with local communities focused on education, of ICT for the bene t of their communities.
health and economic development, and to provide the residents of participating communities, especially of the Health younger generation, with the tools and skills to play a Medico fide Cabecera Continuing the programme launched productive role and to enable them to chart their own paths.
in 2011 to bring health services to the communities close to theGroups Peruvian operations, three mobile units served local Based on this goal, the Group developed several initiatives communities during 2012.
Through this initiative, we worked in 2012 which were designed to improve the quality of life together with the Ministry of Health in organising promotional of the people in the areas of direct and indirect in uence of activities and health prevention campaigns.
the Groups operations and projects as well as to improve relations with residents.
Socio-economic development Digital Chalhuanca The Groups agship project using To complement this vision, a socio-economic study of the technology and the internet to enhance education and promote geographic areas where the Groups operations are present economic development.
see case study on opposite page was commissioned in 2012 where, through interviews, surveys, ethnographies and research of the area, a pro le of the needs of Development of local skills Through active participation, the communities and related trends was identi ed to ne-tune Community Development Plans were agreed enabling local the Groups approach.
Based on the findings, programmes are communities to prioritise projects that will lead to sustainable being designed for 2013 from the perspective of Family Units, development with support from local and regional authorities.
where tailored programmes will be developed taking into Alpaca and trout programmes To encourage revenue generation account the needs of the families and their physical location.
and therefore economic independence, the Group continued to Our achievements in 2012 provide technical support and infrastructure for the raising of Signi cant progress was made in each of the key areas of alpacas.
Technical assistance to local sh farms resulted in the our Community Relations strategy.
Group sourcing local produce for the restaurants at its operations.
Education Maestro Lder Hochschild worked directly with over 300 primary and secondary school teachers to improve the education of children in the Groups areas of in uence.
These teachers received training and certi cation in basic skills programmes, entrepreneurship, leadership and digital inclusion.
com 53 CASE STUDY: DIGITAL CHALHUANCA The first digital community in Peru.
This project was launched to provide the community of Chalhuanca with access to new technology to promote education and economic development.
The town, situated 500 km south-east of Lima in the The projects initial two-year phase focuses on meeting the communitys initial needs in using the new technology and region of Apurimac, was selected because of its location in launching initiatives in the following areas: the Groups Area of In uence and its potential as a hub for surrounding communities.
Education & Training promoting the use of ICT as a Digital Chalhuanca was made possible through extensive teaching resource for primary and secondary school public-private collaboration between numerous students.
Training will also be provided to the general organisations including the provincial and regional public on basic IT literacy authorities, the NGO Empresarios por la Educacion EPE E-Government enhancing the website portal of the and companies including Hochschild, Intel, HP and Lenovo.
municipal authority and holding training workshops for Together, they installed wired and wireless internet access local public sector employees and created a Digital Resource Centre equipped with the Economic Sustainability training local producers and latest technology.
In addition, funds were committed for traders in various subjects to promote business and educational programmes for students, teachers and the improve competitiveness general public designed on sustainable strategies developed by EPE.
The next phase will include the supply of IT equipment to schools, additional resources for teachers and the provision of support personnel.
54 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report continued Working together with local communities continued HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2012 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary Ongoing target Zero Loss of Production days resulting from community con icts Speci c targets All relevant agreements comprising To conclude all agreements envisaged in the mutually permissions and social licences negotiated approved annual plan with communities were concluded To make a measurable contribution to the improvement The Group undertook numerous activities of the quality of life of the communities living close to the during the year with this objective.
For further Groups operations details, see section on our achievements in 2012 on previous page COMMUNITY RELATIONS INDICATORS 2012 2011 2010 2009 1 Community investment $6.5m $7.7m $6.7m $6.0m Production days lost as a result of community con ict 0 1 0 1.5 1 Figures represent only the portion of expenditure on social and community welfare activities surrounding the Companys mining units accounted for as administrative expenses.
2013 TARGETS To continue making improvements to the literacy skills of primary and secondary school children To increase the level of engagement between the Groups mining operations and local businesses CASE STUDY: PERITO MORENO The Groups San Jose joint venture in Argentina has continued to support the town of Perito Moreno located 80km from the mine in the Santa Cruz province.
A total of $2.2 million was invested in social and welfare activities during 2012 which included: support for the construction of the New Hope integration centre for the disabled: ongoing support for the first technical Institute of the town dedicated to providing training in the use of technology in industrial activities: the donation of equipment to the local hospital see picture opposite : and scholarships for participants in an introductory mining course.
Equipment was donated during the year to the Dr Oscar Natale hospital in Perito Moreno Business review p14-61 www.
com 55 Managing our environmental impact economic sustainability of communities that have been The Hochschild approach to in uenced by the operations.
environmental management We are committed to ensuring the sustainability of the Our achievements in 2012 environment in which we develop our operations and Stemming from the Groups commitment to sustainability, new projects.
The Company has established an environmental the Environmental and Social Responsibility department management system on a corporate level that seeks to was created by combining the Environmental and Community apply the best international practices available, as demonstrated Relations teams by the continued ISO 14001 certi cation of our operations.
In May we joined the United Nations Global Compact, The Company recognises the importance of water in the embracing the Ten Principles of corporate responsibility success of our operations and the ongoing sustainability of the Approval of Inmaculada Environmental Impact Study environment.
Through responsible management of the water EIS in September resource we strive to assure effi cient water usage, maximise use of recycled water and comply with Maximum Discharge Levels Group Compliance Performance Indicators CPI above and Environmental Quality Standards.
90%, validated by an external entity Hochschild Mining recognises that Environmental and Social Maintained ISO 14001 certi cation for the Groups operations Responsibility extends beyond the life of our operations: Mine in Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata and San Jose Closure Plans are in place to restore disturbed areas where mining activity has ceased, and to contribute to the socioFirst carbon footprint study of the Groups operations see case study below.
HOCHSCHILD ENVIRONMENTAL TEAM OPERATIONS Implementing CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGER standards, procedures and best practice PERMITTING AND CLOSURE NEW PROJECTS ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL Rehabilitation and SUPERINTENDENT Ensuring compliance with CHIEF FOR SUPERINTENDENT SUPERINTENDENT remediation of disturbed local and international FOR CLOSURE AND areas where mining EXPLORATION FOR PROJECTS FOR OPERATIONS regulations throughout REHABILITATION activity has ceased the mine life cycle Through this structure, dedicated personnel in the environmental team provide the services described adjacently: SOCIAL WORK Communications, EXPLORATION The Environmental department works together with the operational training, support and Implementing facilitating teams, community relations and the legal function in the application environmental controls the participation of in green eld and communities in for, and ongoing compliance with, mining permits, thereby assuring brown eld projects environmental continuity of operations.
works CASE STUDY: MEASURING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT In 2012 we carried out the first carbon footprint study in collaboration with A2G Carbon Partners, which was prepared We are committed to playing our part in mitigating the eff ects in accordance with international guidelines and protocols, such of global climate change and calculating our carbon footprint as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, ISO14064.
is the first step in achieving this goal.
Emissions sources within our activities were identi ed, This study will allow us to identify opportunities to reduce classi ed and included within the scope and boundaries of emissions, optimise effi ciency as well as improve our our study: awareness training was carried out and information operation and environmental performance.
regarding Tiers I, II, and III of carbon footprint accounting Opportunities was gathered.
These three tiers include direct emissions, for Reduction Boundaries emissions related to purchased energy and other indirect emissions.
A veri cation process was implemented to assure data quality.
Monitoring Plan This will enable us to improve our environmental performance Sources and focus our eff orts to reduce emissions throughout the life cycle of our operations.
The results of the study are in the latter stages of evaluation Calculation and Presentation and will be reported on in more detail in the Groups first Training standalone Sustainability Report.
Data Collection and Validation 56 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Sustainability report continued Managing our environmental impact continued HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2012 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary Group Compliance Performance Performance above 90% was achieved for all our operations and Indicator above 89% was validated by a third party, Verum SAC Maintain ISO14001 certi cation We have maintained certi cation of our environmental management for Ares, Arcata, Selene, system for all our underground operations, having been assessed by Pallancata and San Jose the certifying entity SGS del Per Submit Crespo and Approval for the Inmaculada EIS was obtained in September 2012 Inmaculada Environmental With respect to Crespo, the necessary steps have been taken with the impact assessments relevant authorities and approval of the EIS is expected in the second half of 2013 1 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2 2012 2011 2010 2009 Average monthly fresh water consumption per metric tonne of treated ore cubic metres 0.18 0.24 0.21 0.63 Electricity consumption per metric tonne of treated ore Kw-h 88.69 53.29 57.75 53.32 Diesel consumption per metric tonne of treated ore gallons 1.53 1.29 0.97 1.23 Number of material environmental incidents across entire operations 0 000 Estimated volume of water withdrawn per day cubic metres 15,925 32,424 30,628 29,668 3 Estimated proportion of recycled water used 103% 69% 32% 27% Estimated volume of water discharged per day cubic metres 30,773 37,979 37,538 35,606 1 Includes data for operations in Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata and San Jose.
2 2012 gures are based on guidelines and information gathered for the Companys 2012 GRI Sustainability Report to be published later in the year.
Data for previous years was calculated using diff erent criteria and is therefore not directly comparable with 2012.
3 Estimated proportion of recycled water for 2012 is greater than 100% for the following reason.
GRI guidelines state that if a process requires two cubic metres of water and this water is used for three cycles then total recycled water would be six cubic metres which for this example would result in a 300% recycle ratio.
2013 TARGETS Approval of Crespo EIS Implementation of improved environmental Compliance Performance Indicators Maintain ISO 14001 certi cation for Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata and San Jose
