CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PLANS FOR 2012 13 FLEET In 2012 13 we intend to focus on the development Commercial fleet is an environmental priority for of Group wide H&S roadmap standards.
Whilst as a business we are driving roadmap standards are intended to be used as more miles, it is essential that we continue to make a self-evaluation tool by business units and a sure we do this in the most efficient way possible.
management tool for driving improvement of our Some of the initiatives include: health and safety performance.
Monthly fleet review meetings with all the key stakeholders to ensure that data such We also aim to review our arrangements in respect as MPG and fuel purchased are reviewed of the management of our contractors, particularly on a regular basis and action taken to focusing on how we set H&S requirements, how reduce the environmental and financial we evaluate our contractors ability to meet these cost to the business.
requirements, and how we continue to monitor Use of the telematics system fitted in every their H&S performance.
van to monitor, amongst other measures, the speed and the distance travelled in any given ENVIRONMENT period.
At HomeServe, we believe that we are in a strong Publishing a league table of the commercial position to help our customers reduce their impact fleet drivers to show their individual fuel on the environment.
Throughout the year we have efficiency levels thereby encouraging given our customers tips and hints on how they employees to drive more efficiently.
can reduce costs whilst reducing their impact on The continued use of the most efficient vehicles the environment.
Over the next year, HomeServe with the latest Euro 5 compliant engines which is committed to taking this further and will look to incorporate Start Stop technology.
offer customers advice on how they can reduce the Regularly reviewing the company car list to take amount of water that they consume.
advantage of new technology that can reduce our carbon footprint.
ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING Environmental training is key, especially in areas that potentially have a greater impact on the environment.
Over the past year further training sessions have been completed with the engineers covering topics such as the importance of being an environmentally friendly company, pollution prevention, legal compliance, waste management, recycling and efficient driving.
GREEN TRAVEL HomeServe is committed to reducing the number of business miles travelled and we are investing in new technology to connect our sites via a new high definition video conferencing system.
46 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements REDUCING OUR PAPER CONSUMPTION Work has been completed, on a trial at the While it is vital for HomeServe to keep its customers head office in Walsall, to consider ways to fully informed, it is also important for HomeServe increase recycling and reduce the waste to manage its paper use and carbon footprint produced.
Training for any employee disposing of waste HomeServe uses external suppliers to produce and at recycling waste management facilities.
distribute its printing and mailing and continues to work closely with these suppliers to ensure this is In 2011 12 the business has reduced the general achieved in a sustainable and responsible manner.
waste leaving its UK sites, therefore reducing the This includes: amount of waste that ends up in landfill: All stock is FSC, FSC mixed or Recycled 2012 2011 accredited.
General waste leaving UK 25% 49% All inks are alcohol free and or vegetable or General waste sent to landfill 6% 17% water based.
UK recycling rate 94% 83% All printer waste is either recycled or disposed of in line with European management standards.
CARBON FOOTPRINT Compliance with PAS2020 and ISO14001 across The carbon footprint for HomeServes UK operation our entire supplier base some suppliers are in 2011 12 was 10,064 tco2e.
Compliance with Royal Mail Responsible Mail CARBON FOOTPRINT and TNT Posts Green Post entry level criteria.
RECYCLING HomeServe has completed various projects in respect of waste management and recycling.
HomeServe believe that reducing the amount of waste that is sent to landfill is a vital part of its environmental commitment and some of the projects include: HomeServe now works closely with one waste broker in the UK to ensure that its impact on Commercial eet 45% Gas 4% the environment is positive.
Electricity 33% Business transport 3% HomeServe completes a full annual legal Paper 9% Air rail 2% compliance audit on its national waste and Waste water 4% recycling partner.
On top of the documentation checks, a number of site visits to the waste disposal sites also take place which enables HomeServe to observe, first-hand, the full life cycle of its waste streams.
