Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements COMMUNITY Cause Related Marketing: CRM is integrated HomeServe aims to use its core business skills to into customer acquisition, cross sales and support charitable initiatives and to give back renewal marketing activity.
Customers are to the community.
In April 2010, HomeServe updated with fundraising progress via the partnered with Marie Curie Cancer Care, pledging customer magazine, mailing inserts, social 1 million by March 2013.
The objectives were media and website.
For example, for the to raise 500,000 to pay for 25,000 hours of second year running, customers who switched nursing care and provide 500,000 of free home to pay for their policy by Direct Debit during emergency cover.
Marie Curies Great Daffodil Appeal, triggered a 1 donation from HomeServe.
Two thirds through its partnership, HomeServe is now well on its way to its 1 million target.
Employees have got involved and raised funds and donated their time in a number of different ways: To date 325,000 has been raised through Sponsored events: cycling challenges and employee fundraising, business donations and sky dives.
sponsorship of Walk Ten, which will pay for 16,250 Local events: cake bakes, clothes collections hours of Marie Curie nursing care.
HomeServe has and book sales.
also provided 325,000 of free home emergency Pennies for Patients: whereby staff donate the cover to patients through its patient policy which change from their salary each month.
provides practical support from fixing a boiler A Charity Holiday Day: whereby staff can to unblocking a toilet through its network of purchase an extra days annual leave by engineers to patients in their own homes.
Over donating their pay for that day.
1,000 home emergency insurance policies have Solihull Hospice: apprentices tidying the been provided to patients and 550 jobs have been grounds for patients to enjoy.
carried out in their homes.
Charity Shop Team Challenge: competition to take over two shops and raise the most money, HomeServe was proud to be the headline with the winning team boosting sales by 202% sponsor of Marie Curies summer walking events, Great Daffodil Appeal: staff sold daffodil pins in Walk Ten, for the second consecutive year in local towns and supermarkets.
2011 and the business also made a number of substantial cash and gift-in-kind donations during the year, including: Susan Munroe, Director of Nursing and My Voice Survey: 1 donated for every Patient Services at Marie Curie Cancer employee survey completed.
Care, said: Corporate Christmas e-card: A donation is made in lieu of printing and posting cards.
Were extremely grateful to HomeServe for offering our patients this cover, which offers a practical solution for patients and families, giving peace of mind at a difficult time.
