CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEES In the UK, employee feedback has been an HomeServes values and company characteristics important driver of the Customer Charter, and reflect our focus on delivering consistently good employees will be actively involved in the creation customer service and are embedded in our of a Colleague Charter setting out what all recruitment, selection, development and reward employees need to do to ensure the delivery of arrangements.
Our company characteristics consistently good customer service.
ensure that individuals hired or promoted into positions at HomeServe possess the appropriate It is the Groups policy that all persons should attitude and behaviours, as well as the necessary be considered for employment, training, career commercial and technical skills required.
We also development and promotion on the basis of their review performance against the characteristics abilities and aptitudes, regardless of physical as part of our annual performance management ability, age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or and succession planning processes, considering ethnic origin.
how people behave, as well as what they have achieved, and might achieve in the future.
HomeServe plc and its subsidiaries apply employment policies that are fair and equitable In 2011 HomeServe launched its Group Leadership for all employees and these ensure that entry into, Development Programme in conjunction with and progression within, the Group are determined Cranfield University.
The programme has been solely by application of job criteria and personal very successful, with strong endorsements from ability and competency.
both participants and senior management, and a significant expansion of the programme has Full and fair consideration having regard to the been agreed for 2012.
Our Graduate Development persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given Programme in the UK was successfully replicated to applications for employment and the career in France in 2011, and HomeServes UK Plumbing development of disabled persons.
HomeServes and Drainage business continues to benefit from training and development policies also make it its Apprenticeship Programme.
clear that it will take all steps practicable to ensure that employees who become disabled during the HomeServe attaches considerable importance time they are employed by the Group are able to to ensuring that all its employees benefit from remain employed by the Group.
effective communications and engagement, including regular business updates, the effective use of company intranets, staff magazines, question and answer opportunities and constructive relationships with employee representatives.
An employee survey is run in all businesses each year, with results reported to the Board and action plans devised and implemented locally.
