Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 Corporate social responsibility report INTRODUCTION Our international supply base use of a number of Key Performance of over 200 suppliers provides Indicators KPIs.
These relate to: Howden Joinery Groups business opportunities and employment is centred on the manufacture our use of wood: in a wide range of trades.
and sale of kitchens and joinery to trade customers.
With 529 depots how we manage our waste: and Responsibility to local communities throughout the UK, we are a local our ability to offer energy business with national scale and Each of our sites is an integral therefore have unique responsibilities efficient products to consumers.
part of the community in which to all of the communities in which we it operates, and helping those These KPIs, which are discussed in operate.
Our business is built on the communities to ourish is detail below, help us to ensure that relationships our depots have with important to everyone who the action we take to reduce our their customers but we recognise lives and works in them.
environmental impact is targeted that we have wider responsibilities Responsibility to future generations where it will have most benefit, and with regard to our product, our that our progress is measurable and environment and how we operate.
Through apprentice motivational for all those involved.
programmes and college As such, we continue to focus on support schemes, we aim to our five key responsibilities which we RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING help both our own staff and have cited in previous years: We remain committed to UK also the next generation of manufacturing and continued to builders and tradespeople.
Responsibility to manufacture safe invest in our two manufacturing and sustainable product facilities Howden, East Yorkshire As our business grows, so does 25 and Runcorn, Cheshire during the impact of our actions.
To that Our kitchens must not only 2012.
In July 2011 we announced end, the 2012 CSR report shows function properly and comply that we would be investing some how we have been committed to with regulations and legislation 20m in new facilities at these maintaining our relationships with but they must be produced in locations over a two year period all of our stakeholders, improving a way which is mindful of the and we rmly believe that investing our products and reducing our wider environmental impact in local manufacturing ensures that overall environmental impact.
both of our own operations we can maintain the quality of our Through the setting of rolling and and the product we sell.
product, protects the long-term extended KPIs we hope that it Responsibility to our staff competitiveness of our business also demonstrates our long-term and benets our communities.
With over 6,300 employees, we recognise the importance During 2012, our UK-based For ease of reading and comparison, of our business to our staff manufacturing teams the report is in a similar format and their families.
produced around: to previous years, and, unless otherwise stated, the report covers Responsibility to customers 3.5 million cabinets: the entirety of our business.
and suppliers 800,000 kitchen worktops MEASURING ACHIEVEMENTS Our 270,000 trade account and breakfast bars: and holders rely on our products The Group continues to measure 2 million kitchen frontals.
and services to ensure the its performance in respect of growth and prosperity of their environmental issues through the own businesses.
Corporate social responsibility report continued MANAGING OUR IMPACT factor when we determine which As well as assessing the Groups ON THE ENVIRONMENT suppliers we use.
In order to overall reduction in energy usage ensure consistency with our over a three-year period, the Wood manufactured product, we aim Standard also looks at general Manufactured Product to source from suppliers who energy management systems Given that wood based products are have similarly high standards across the business and the central to our business, we continue and international accreditation.
ways in which energy reduction is to set challenging targets for the encouraged across all sites.
The responsible use of wood based As part of our continuous Carbon Trusts assessors also noted products and paper products.
Our improvement programmes all our commitment to supply energy rolling KPI to monitor the provenance our key suppliers are regularly efficient products to our customers of our wood based product is: audited.
The audit programme where possible.
operates across some 14 To ensure that 100% of our countries and incorporates Manufacturing wood based product used in measures relating to Quality, One of our key metrics for our manufacturing processes Environment, Health energy usage in the factories is comes from certied sources.
& Safety, Employment and the electricity we consume per Business Continuity.
Our baseline In 2012, we used 198,000 cubic measurement in 2008 was metres of chipboard and 13,000 In 2012, as in 2011, 92% of 3.62kWh per cabinet, and we cubic metres of MDF in our our European timber based are pleased that this gure has manufacturing process.
As has product suppliers were certied signicantly decreased over the been the case every year since as sourcing timber from a 26 last four years.
In 2012, we made 2006, all of this came from sustainable supply.
significant improvements in our certied sources.
energy management through the Howden Joinery has been certied We set similarly challenging targets efforts of our employees and the by the FSC and the European for our use of cardboard packaging, application of new technology.
Our Programme for the Endorsement with our KPI being that all packaging achievements in 2012 resulted in of Forest Certication PEFC should be sourced from recycled the gure dropping to 2.84kWh since February 2008.
At the end of or certied sources.
We 2012, 22 of our 40 kitchen ranges used 3,100 tonnes of cardboard managed to achieve this 15% 55% of our kitchens were fully packaging all of which came from reduction in our consumption compliant with FSC requirements recycled sources.
It is our intention per cabinet by installing energy compared to 50% in 2011 and to achieve a similarly high standard efficient variable speed drive 43% in 2010.
We aim to maintain in the future.
compressors in our Howden site a similar proportion in 2013. thereby reducing the energy used All of the kitchen ranges which in loading.
We also introduced Energy are manufactured at our factories a programme of lighting system Our efforts to reduce energy use are certied by the UK Forest upgrades in all factories and across the business are recognised Stewardship Council UK FSC the Northampton Distribution by our accreditation under the and over 99% of all products we Centre warehouse, making a Carbon Trust Standard.
For over manufacture in-house are FSC significant improvement in energy 10 years prior to the introduction compliant 2011: 99%.
consumption whilst also improving of the Carbon Trust accreditation, the working environment.
Given the Groups manufacturing facilities Bought-in product the progress made in 2012, our had enjoyed accreditation under the Ethical and environmental sourcing target for 2013 is to maintain the standards predecessor, the Energy continues to be an important consumption per cabinet level efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 To improve the efficiencies of our Waste All our Supply division sites manufacturing, distribution best selling own brand electric Our employees are encouraged to ovens by reducing the kilowatt consider how we can improve our or warehouse related have maintained compliance with consumption per hour by 5% or environmental performance in all more over the 3 year period.
areas by reducing consumption, their ISO 14001 standard for Environmental Management as reusing materials and recycling To reduce the water consumed wherever possible.
well as helping the Group retain its certication under the Carbon per cycle by 5% or more for own In 2012, our Supply division reduced brand laundry and dishwashers Trust Standard.
overall waste by 13% and continued over the 3 year period.
Truck Fleet to recycle waste in line with their The Company operates a eet of rolling KPI which is: Excellent progress has been 104 trucks.
We continue to work with made over the last three years To recycle more than 95% of all our haulier partners through trafc in respect of our ovens, with manufacturing waste produced.
sharing arrangements and maximise energy consumption in our own the use of backhaul capacity.
All of brand Lamona appliances Of the 33,000 tonnes of waste our trucks remain Euro 5 compliant.
reduced by 12% overall and by produced 2011: 37,900, 98% 5% for our best selling ranges.
We implemented a new tracking was recycled 2011: 98%.
system across the truck eet during In the last year we have also One element of waste from the year.
By monitoring and directing reduced water consumption by the manufacturing process is improvements in driving style, 10% with our new dishwashers sawdust.
In 2012 we converted this system has resulted in a 2.4% 27 and laundry appliances.
14,700 tonnes of sawdust into reduction in CO emissions across 2 energy at our Howden and the eet since its introduction.
Our aim is to extend this type of KPI Runcorn sites 2011: 16,600 over the next two year period to see Car Fleet tonnes, with sawdust fuelling if we can also reduce the electricity We have now completed our plan five wood combustion boilers consumption of our dishwashers to replace our manager and sales that burn this waste to heat our by 5% measured on a kilowatt representatives vehicles with factories.
Where 75k MWh of energy generated practical, we also continue to In addition to measuring our from sawdust in 2012. introduce the latest fuel efficient performance against our chosen We also supplied 4,700 models as they become available KPIs, we are committed to tonnes of milled sawdust to from our vehicle supplier.
gaining Energy Savings Trust a local manufacturer of animal EST certication for some of Products bedding where the sawdust is our appliances.
We now have Our KPI in this area, which we set for recycled for use in bedding for fifteen appliances certied and a three year period 2010-2012, was horses, cattle and other livestock recommended by EST 2011: 6 aimed at improving the efficiency of 2011: 5,000 tonnes.
and we continue to seek our best selling own-brand products certication for a number of other We continue with the initiative both in terms of energy consumption appliances.
Where appropriate, started in 2007 to recover and and water usage.
The targets were: we will design new appliances in repair pallets which would line with EST recommendations.
Last year we recovered or repaired more than 125,000 pallets 2011: 138,000.
Corporate social responsibility report continued During the year, our trade division Supporting learning and unable to afford to fund an engaged with a waste contractor to development in the community apprentice.
Other than stipulating implement a recycling programme Howden Joinerys heritage and that the money be used specically to reduce the waste sent to landll culture means we place a high to fund apprentice joiners, Howdens from our trade depots.
To date this value on the whole range of has no involvement in choosing programme has been rolled-out skills technical, commercial and either the apprentices or the to 248 depots, with initial results interpersonal that are practised by companies involved.
showing that there has been an local tradespeople.
We are keen to Having funded 20 places over the overall reduction in excess of 50% in promote the use of these skills in the first two years of the scheme, in waste being sent to landll.
We will workplace and interest in them in the September 2012 we agreed to continue to roll the programme out wider community.
extend the funding to accommodate further in 2013.
Developing apprenticeships a further 20 places, creating in-house opportunities for 20 more young SUPPORTING OUR WORKFORCE During 2012, we continued people across the country.
We are TO ACQUIRE AND PRACTICE our partnership with The Real pleased with the feedback from the CORE SKILLS Apprenticeship Company to scheme to date not only from the Employee responsibility further promote the use of newly qualied joiners themselves We take our responsibilities as apprenticeships within the but also from the companies who an employer seriously.
The Group currently now see the value of apprentices provide a positive work environment employs 10 modern apprentices in and are committed to employing for all our staff, whether they work our Supply division and 170 within more of them in the future, this time in factories, warehouses, depots 28 the depot network, with a further without the help of a bursary.
Our culture emphasises 50 apprentices currently being the importance of individual Partnerships with Further recruited.
During 2012, the business accountability, which means the Education colleges saw 115 apprentices gain their personal responsibility of each of us In addition to running the bursary apprenticeship qualication.
towards those we work with every scheme, we also support trainee day.
We are proud of this culture, Pioneering bursary scheme for builders and joiners in their local which encourages openness and apprentice joiners community as they go through their transparency within the business As well as helping promote the courses and develop their skills.
To and has been vital to its growth and value of apprenticeships in-house, do this, we continue to encourage our development since 1995.
This culture we also continue to help the next depots to build on their relationships is reinforced by our commitment to generation of builders and joiners with construction departments in certain core principles: by supporting apprentices in the local colleges of Further Education.
In partnership As well as donating discontinued Recognising by reward the hard with  the products on which students can work of all employees: Sector Skills Council and Industry practise, depots also sponsor end Training Board for the construction of year awards and prizes.
Just over investing in training and industry, we continue to offer the three years ago we started a separate development across the Howden Joinery Bursary for new programme of support for colleges business: and apprentice joiners.
The scheme was that offer NVQ Diploma courses ensuring that recruitment, career the first of its kind in the country, its that include a module on kitchen success and progression are solely aim being to fund first year wages installation.
We provide each college determined by an employees for apprentice joiners in companies with a supply of equipment tailored to abilities and achievements.
which would otherwise feel their individual requirements for both Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 practice and examinations.
When benefited from our investment in In our manufacturing, warehouse requirements are nalised for our internal courses, with over 56,000 and distribution sites latest recruit to this project, we will training hours completed during All three sites achieved the have fullled our initial objective of the year.
Courses are offered in prestigious International Safety recruiting one college in each of our subjects ranging from HR skills to Award given by the British Safety eight regions across the country.
manual handling, from diversity & Council.
For our Howden site it inclusion to health & safety, from is the fourth consecutive year of Training at Howdens environmental awareness to LGV entry and the second time it has Ongoing BTEC programmes and fork-lift truck driving.
In their Our commitment to training to continue to invest in training first year of entry, our Runcorn and does not, however, stop with and development in 2013 as well Northampton sites have both been apprenticeships.
Our training as maintain a strong in-house awarded Distinctions.
team in our Trade division continue delivery capability as we continue to to deliver the BTEC Level 2 Award Additionally, all three sites retained encourage staff to achieve training in Trade Business Services and their OHSAS BS 18001 certication qualications themselves.
recently launched the BTEC Level and maintained 5-Star status in the 3 Certicate in Trade Business Health & safety depots, British Safety Council 5-Star audit, Management through internal job manufacturing & distribution achieving over 95% compliance.
This course is In the depots During 2012, there were seven unique to Howden Joinery.
By There were 23 reportable health & reportable health & safety incidents the end of 2012, 481 employees safety incidents in our 529 depots 2011: 16.
This continues a had successfully been awarded during 2012 2011: 31 and we are downward trend in reportable 29 the Level 2 award, and 23 pleased to report that the overall accidents which have declined members of management had accident trend over the last five by 89% over the past five years.
enrolled to complete the Level 3 years continues downward.
Average time lost per incident has certicate programme.
fallen by 79% over the same five To ensure we maintain a health & Management development safety culture in the Trade division, year period.
In 2012, our Supply division also we continue to run a number of Across the Group there were no focused specically on management courses including: prosecutions, prohibitions or and leadership development to Our defensive driving course improvement notices by either the support the future growth of the Health & Safety Executive HSE or which runs for those staff business.
During the year, our across the depot network who are the Environment Agency EA.
Supply division training team required to drive as part of their achieved accredited centre status day-to-day role: this year a total of PLAYING AN ACTIVE ROLE with the Institute of Leadership 321 drivers completed this course.
IN OUR COMMUNITIES Management which enables us to deliver a Level 3 accredited Each depot, manufacturing site, Management of safety in a depot, management development distribution and support centre where managers continue to be programme Institute of Leadership fulls an important role in the life trained every three years.
During Management for Shift Managers of the area it serves.
So as a locally 2012, 239 managers and 166 and Group Leaders.
driven business, it is our policy to assistant managers completed encourage staff at each of our sites this course.
Other internal courses to support and engage with local As well as supporting staff to gain community activities.
accreditations, our staff have also Corporate social responsibility report continued During 2012, our staff were Earlier this year Leonard Cheshire They raise about 10k each year with responsible for 2,126 donations Disability ofcially opened their funds going towards an adapted to local good causes 2011: 2,229 first training kitchen for young minibus for one of the charitys amounting to some 817k across the disabled people, operating from homes.
We also had three entries Group 2011: 814k.
Cash and stock their care home Bells Piece in in the new multi-ability triathlon Tri donations together with employee Farnham, Surrey.
This was a Together in south London, five in fund raising initiatives, typically joint Howdens Leonard Cheshire the London Marathon and four in the supported a broad cross section Disability project involving the Great South Run.
of local causes including: schools, partial conversion of a large Last August, 65 members of our colleges, village halls, care homes, existing outbuilding.
In the first four product and marketing team, spent hospices, sports clubs, scouts, months of opening, 50 students, two of their annual team building guides and youth groups.
supported by Can Do, each away days working as volunteers completed five healthy eating More than eight years ago we on a community allotment project workshops at the centre.
These formed a partnership with Leonard called Green Patch in Kettering.
accredited courses are led by Cheshire Disability.
Like Howdens, This site is run by the environmental professional staff and offer the this charity works closely with local regeneration charity Groundwork possibility that some students communities, supporting thousands UK.
The team took on eleven could go on to gain qualications of disabled people across the separate projects ranging from and employment.
Since its foundation in barbecue, shed and path building 1948, volunteers have always been Inspired by working with their improving disability access to pond important to Leonard Cheshire residents, our inclusive kitchen clearance and fence building.
For the past six years research with the charity continues Our Truly Local book, which we Howdens has funded many areas to enable us to offer affordable have published for a number of years of their volunteer recruitment and kitchen solutions to people of all and distributed through our depot training programme, including the abilities.
In addition to the kitchen network, is available online at http: Can Do project.
in Bells Piece, we installed three www.
com about-us afurther activity centres in three other This initiative offers social support truly-local-business.
This provides homes as well as revisiting two and personal mentoring to young a snap-shot of just some of the kitchens to carry out modications disabled people.
For many of them, activities in which we are involved following feedback from staff the support network they had but are not necessarily documented and residents.
As well as offering always relied on invariably comes in this report.
many therapeutic and recreational to an end when they nish full benets, these installations also Matthew Ingle time education.
The objective is to enable individual homes to offer lifeChief Executive prevent social exclusion by including skills retraining both to residents and them in local activities and giving day centre visitors.
27 February 2013 them the support to nd long-term volunteering positions that may in a Every year our staff take up few cases lead to employment.
Last various fundraising challenges to year Can Do supported over 1,600 raise funds for Leonard Cheshire volunteering opportunities which led Disability.
Howdens team entry to nearly 5,000 hours of volunteering for the Great North Run has now by 521 people.
become a regular event, with some 30 individuals competing every year.
