Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our commitment to shareholders, employees and other key stakeholders is to create a sustainable organisation capable of delivering long-term positive returns.
Aberdeen staff raised 12,000 for the Scottish Community Foundation through various activities including a 54 mile highland hike.
Introduction Selected key performance Shareholders Hunting is an international energy indicators include: Communicating with the Companys services company, which manufactures Revenue shareholders is of key importance to and supplies products and services to the Profit from operations the Directors.
The methods of global energy industry.
Diluted earnings per share communication to our shareholders Free cash flow and employees include press releases The Group operates from 66 facilities in Return on capital employed issued to the London Stock Exchange, the key energy producing regions of the Gearing institutional investor presentations, which world.
Being at the forefront of delivering Dividends per share are published on the Groups website energy solutions to many customers, and other communications including the Hunting is committed to developing The Business Strategy and Business in-house corporate publication, the relationships with key stakeholders Model are outlined on page 14 of this Hunting Review, which is published employees, shareholders, customers, Annual Report.
The strategy of the twice a year.
suppliers and communities within the Group is to provide value added areas we operate.
products and services, focusing on The Chief Executive and Finance proprietary technologies and knowDirector meet with major shareholders This report describes the policies and how, incorporating product lines which at least twice a year, following the responsibilities which the Group has capture market share within each announcement of the Groups half adopted as a responsible global product segment in which we invest.
and full year results, and whenever corporate citizen.
The Our commitment to shareholders, Chairman and the Senior Independent Financial Metrics employees and other key stakeholders Director also meet with major Hunting is committed to a business is to create a sustainable organisation, shareholders annually to discuss strategy, strategy which targets long-term growth capable of delivering long-term positive governance and other matters.
in the value of the Groups assets.
We returns and providing stability to our are committed to investing capital to employees.
The Company is listed on the London maintain our organic growth profile, Stock Exchange and is subject to while acquiring complementary regulation by the Financial Services businesses which deliver similar growth.
Authority in the United Kingdom as well as compliance with UK Company Law.
The Group is also subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued The Group iscommitted tomutually developing an environment of honesty, integrity and respect.
Geographic split of employees 20112012 493 UK 578 2,182 US 2,273 219 Canada 244 Rest of 56 65 Europe 490 Asia 677 Pacic 13 29 Other 2011 Above and left: Hunting PLC and Texas staff have entered into a two year commitment to support New Danville, 2012 a self sustaining community to help adults with limiting disabilities.
Employees It is important for the Group to retain key Our people are our most valuable asset employees, as well as attracting high and the Group recognises that its success quality individuals.
This remains a major and reputation depends upon their challenge for the oil and gas industry.
Our Hunting has developed a supportive people create Huntings competitive edge work environment that promotes and we aim to ensure that our customers development, learning and advancement expectations are met and exceeded.
to ensure that its employees realise their Responsibility for employees lies with potential.
Long service is a feature of the local management, which allows local Groups employees and recognition is cultural issues to be appropriately given through service award programmes managed and the necessary development across the Group.
Forty years service is programmes to be structured accordingly.
The location of our employees reflects Hunting believes that employing the right the global nature of the oil and gas people is only the start of the relationship industry and the geographic diversity between an employee and employer.
The Group is committed to mutually developing an environment of honesty, At 31 December 2012, the Group has integrity and respect for its staff and for 3,866 employees 2011 3,453 with those people and companies we work the geographical split shown in the with daily.
The Group is also committed chart above.
to abiding by all international and local laws and regulations on employment and The Group seeks to adhere to all has a no child labour policy.
relevant local and jurisdictional laws about employment equality and The Group encourages and promotes an minimum wage legislation.
awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the As a responsible employer, full and fair Group and shares information on current consideration is given to applications for activities through regular communication positions from disabled persons and to and consultation.
their training and career advancement.
Every effort is made to retain in employment those who become disabled while employed by the Group.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 31 Through the Groups Code of Conduct, The Group has published its combined published on the Companys website, the policy on health, safety and Group sets out its equal opportunities environmental matters, which can policies and zero tolerance approach to be found on the Groups website.
The Groups gender diversity policy, which Huntings Director of Health, Safety and also seeks to promote fair and equal Environment reports directly to the Chief opportunities, is also published on the Executive and a report is considered by Companys website.
the Board of Directors at each meeting.
The Group believes that providing The Groups target is to achieve zero additional benefits to staff encourages recordable incidents.
Each local business the best performance from our people.
is required to develop tailored policies Therefore, most employees are offered to reflect its daily business.
These participation in schemes which provide incorporate the Groups approach to healthcare and post-retirement benefits putting safety first and, at a minimum, and, in certain instances, participation in to comply with local regulatory bonus arrangements when requirements.
Training is given to every outperformance in terms of operational employee, whether they are on the excellence has been achieved.
Hunting shop floor or working from a desk.
has share award schemes in place as a longer term incentive whereby staff During the year, there were no fatalities can participate in the ownership of across the Groups operations with the Company.
The Board has an established whistleIn 2012, the Group continued its blowing procedure in place for any programme to introduce Lean employee wishing to raise, in confidence, Manufacturing processes into global any concerns they may have about operations.
This resulted in efficiency possible financial improprieties, or other gains in a number of key business units.
matters, with the Senior Independent Director.
Details of the procedure are Environment regularly communicated to all The Group is committed to the employees.
protection of the environment and developing manufacturing processes Health and Safety and procedures, which ensure that any The Group is committed to achieving adverse effects on the environment are and maintaining the highest standards kept to a practicable minimum.
We take Staff and management volunteers have teamed up to raise funds for two local orphanages in Indonesia.
of safety for its employees, customers, the view that sustainable development is suppliers and the public.
Hunting has in the interests of all our stakeholders a proven culture of aiming for best and include environmental issues in practice and employs rigorous health our planning and decision-making.
The Groups environmental policy Health and Safety policies include: is to look for opportunities and adopt Regular audit and maintenance practices that create a safer and cleaner reviews of facilities, equipment, environment.
It is particularly sensitive to practices and procedures to ensure the challenges for the industry in which compliance with prevailing standards it operates.
The Group has programmes and legislation and a safe environment in place to monitor the environmental for all those who work within and impact from its operational activities around our facilities.
and remains focused on ensuring Seeking accreditation and aligning environmental consideration is at the long standing company programmes forefront of its business practices.
and procedures to internationally recognised Quality Assurance standards.
Monitoring, which is a management task, is documented and reported at each Board meeting.
Appropriate training and education of all staff.
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Key aspects of our environmental CO equivalent emissions tonnes 2 Natural Gas Usage kwh policies include: % Keeping any adverse effects on 12 2012 2011 change 17.8m the environment to a practicable minimum.
11 16.3m Scope 1 3,644 3,064 12 Encouraging the reduction of waste Scope 2 36,149 22,636 60 10 15.1m and emissions and promoting awareness of recycled materials and Total gross use of renewable resources.
controlled Each operating unit developing and emissions 39,793 25,700 54 implementing their own procedures Electricity Usage kwh while conducting regular reviews to ensure that they are maintained and The increase in carbon dioxide emissions 12 55.9m refined.
between 2011 and 2012 is primarily Encouraging employees to pay special 11 attributed to the acquisitions completed in 41.5m regard to environmental issues and 2011, where the operational scale of the 10 30.5m requirements in the communities in Group materially increased.
Including which the Group operates.
vehicle mileage and fuel consumption Incorporating health, safety and data, Huntings 2012 scope 1 emissions environment considerations into the would be 9,061 tonnes of carbon dioxide, 3 design of new facilities.
leading to a scope 1 and 2 total of 45,210 Mains Water Usage 000m tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.
With the aim of maintaining standards a 12 169.0 number of the Groups operating facilities Natural gas, electricity and mains water are ISO or API registered or subject to 11 124.4 usage across the Groups facilities are other similar registrations or industry shown in the chart above.
In 2012, 7 facilities 2011 6 within the Group were ISO 14001 A number of Group facilities in the US compliant indicating a recognised are supplied by on-site wells water environmental management system being sourced from these wells is not included in place and 2 facilities being ISO 18001 in the data presented.
compliant 2011 1, indicating that health and safety systems have been reviewed Operational Excellence and Research and formally certified.
More facilities The Group continues to develop its across the Group are working towards relationships with academic institutions these accreditations, continuing the and during 2012 Hunting collaborated Groups commitment to monitoring and with the University of Plymouth in the reducing the environmental impact of its UK to research ways of improving safety operations and increasing HSE standards.
and reliability during oil and gas extraction.
The Group continues to monitor and The Group continuously strives to gain collect data relating to its carbon leadership in areas of technology relevant emissions from across its operations.
to the Groups products and at the For 2012, each business unit across the year-end had 350 active patents Group has reported scope 1 and 2 2011 316. emissions to provide a consolidated total of each source of greenhouse gas In order to promote its engagement emissions.
Total emissions are then within its industry sector, Group converted to a carbon dioxide equivalent companies hold membership of the figure, using conversion factors published following organisations: by DEFRA at www.
The American Petroleum Institute following table details Huntings scope 1 Society of Petroleum Engineers and 2 emissions, excluding vehicle The Intervention and Coiled mileage and fuel consumption.
Tubing Association The winner of the $50,000 Hunting Art Prize, Leading Oil and Gas Industry Michael Bise.
Competitiveness Investors in People Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 33 Community and Charitable Donations Through the Groups Code of Conduct Huntings commitment to the and compliance with the UK Bribery The Group continuously strives communities in which it operates extends Act, the Group has policies and controls to gain leadership in areas of on many fronts.
The Group participates in place detailing procedures on how technology relevant to the in a number of initiatives and in events the Group interacts with customers, which raise money for charities around suppliers and governments around Groups products.
In 2012, Hunting employees the world.
participated in local charitable events, including corporate support through Customers and Suppliers sponsorship of a number of events.
The Groups Code of Conduct has been circulated to all of the Groups employees, The Groups major charitable event, key customers and suppliers and agents.
the Hunting Art Prize is an annual event The principles in the Code of Conduct which supports and recognises the lay out our responsibilities to all external local community in Houston, Texas.
associates and also incorporates In 2012, the Art Prize supported the anti-bribery and corruption policies charity New Danville, a self-sustaining, addressed by the UK Bribery Act.
master-planned community dedicated to providing adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities an opportunity to live, work, and grow with their non-disabled peers.
In Aberdeen, employees from Hunting Energy Services participated in the Caledonian Dennis Proctor Challenge, raising funds for the Scottish Chief Executive Community Foundation, an organisation 7 March 2013 which distributes funds to small charities and community projects in Scotland.
The Group also makes donations to charities through the Chairmans In the US, employees led a food drive in support of charitable trust committee, which the Wyoming Food Bank of the Rockies.
comprises the Chairman and former Hunting employees.
In 2012, assistance was granted to 32 charities.
In accordance with Group policy, no political donations were made in the year 2011 nil.
Business Ethics The Groups Directors and employees promote high standards of honesty and integrity in the way it goes about its business, recognising that the Groups reputation is of critical importance in the industry in which we operate.
