BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PRIORITIES Health and safety to 14,800 in 2012.
Tool box talks are also becoming more commonplace at the start of shifts as a way of communicating Over the last five years our health and safety culture and key messages about health and safety to employees.
performance have both improved signicantly.
Since 2007 the incidence of 3 day lost time accident rates per 100,000 In 2012, the campaign allowed us to focus on key safety hours worked has improved by 78%.
This performance initiatives but as we move towards our new target of 2015, demonstrates our commitment to providing a safe working we will focus on other important health-related initiatives such environment throughout the entire Group.
To achieve this we as workplace well-being.
employ more than 60 full-time health, safety and environmental Supporting our customers responsible business priorities professionals across the Group, up 30% on 2011.
We place significant emphasis on helping our customers meet This performance demonstrates the continued clear focus their own responsible business commitments, which we on and commitment to health and safety matters at all levels believe builds both long-term value and customer loyalty.
Not only are we interested in the welfare Long-term global trends including climate change, of our employees but there is a clear business benefit from urbanisation and resource scarcity, together with related investing in health and safety as we reduced the number legislation, are driving customer demand for our products of lost time days from 2,400 in 2010 to 850 in 2012, a 65% and services, many of which are focused on achieving improvement over the past two years.
Our customers also value the high standard of ethical business practices set out in The IMI Way, which is particularly relevant in emerging markets where responsible business risks can be higher.
HIGHLIGHT IMI Company: TA Hydronics Title: Energy Insights launch A bus with the slogan your safety is our goal travels to IMI Up to 40% of the worlds energy consumption occurs in employees in Germany to offer advice on workplace safety buildings and 50% of that is accounted for by heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems.
In 2012, TA Hydronics launched an Energy Insights campaign Health and safety excellence to increase the awareness of the benets of hydronic In 2012, we launched an internal campaign called From optimisation which can reduce the energy consumption of Compliance to Competitive Advantage with the objective of a buildings HVAC system by an average of 30%.
becoming a world class HS&E operation by 2015.
Our goal Key elements of the campaign included: is to promote exceptional behaviours and to move from a a book incorporating 20 separate hydronic energy facts top-down management approach to a culture where our s each explaining how much energy can be saved as a people not only look out for themselves but also watch out result of key specications in a system : for their colleagues.
evidence from real case studies and independent studies: As part of the campaign, we launched a standardised HS&E s management framework alongside a set of group-wide a three-hour seminar targeted at global sales teams to s targets.
We also enhanced our HS&E web-based reporting equip them with the skills and knowledge to engage local tool to include dashboard capability and increased customers in the energy saving features of hydronic resource across the organisation from 50 health and safety optimisation.
professionals in 2011 to over 60 in 2012.
The Energy Insights campaign built customer awareness of The high standard and consistency of HS&E reporting and the products that are available to cut energy consumption in feedback is driving considerable performance improvement.
buildings and promoted the benets of optimised hydronic For instance, all of our businesses are now required to track distribution.
and report on hazards and near misses which has resulted in the increase in reporting of such incidents from 9,500 in 2011 IMI plc Annual Report 2012 27 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR PRIORITIES Energy efficiency and carbon management Supply chain risk management We source components, materials and services for our In addition to meeting our customers demands for cleaner manufacturing and sales operations from all over the world and more energy efficient energy solutions, reducing our own but with one commitment: to procure only from suppliers CO emissions and becoming more energy efficient is an 2 that meet or exceed a minimum set of standards.
If our integral part of our responsible business agenda.
suppliers do not currently meet requirements, then they must In 2011 we launched Project 20:20 which is focused on our demonstrate progression towards the minimum standard over 20 largest energy-using sites which together account for an agreed and suitable timescale.
more than 70% of the Groups total energy consumption.
Every year we audit our supplier base using our bespoke We committed to achieving a 10% reduction in normalised three-step audit process which challenges our suppliers on a CO emissions at each facility and to introducing an intensive 2 range of issues including labour standards, ethics, health and programme of energy surveys, best practice sharing, and safety and the environment, in keeping with The IMI Way.
In 2012, we started to work with our suppliers to remove conict minerals from our supply chain.
The continuing conict and the escalating humanitarian disaster in the Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC is part nanced by the trade in the ores from which tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold 3TG are derived.
These elements are now commonly referred to as conict minerals whereas minerals known to originate in mines which are not operated or taxed by the warring factions may be called conict-free.
With long and complex international relationships, it can be difficult to ascertain whether our extended supply chain is conict-free.
To address this concern, we have asked all of our suppliers to identify and remove any conict mineral traces.
To date no conict minerals have been found in any part of our supply chain.
We are keeping our suppliers updated about all new TA Heimeier saved 400 tonnes of CO and reduced site 2 legislation in this area and helping them put in place their overheads by 90k per annum simply by replacing existing lighting with LED lighting own audit procedures to ensure their own supply chains are conict-free.
In 2010 we targeted a 10% reduction in our key carbon usage indicator to 3.2 CO tonnes per 1,000 hours worked.
2 Last year we developed and embedded a Conict We achieved this in 2012 and are now aiming to reduce our Mineral Sourcing Policy across the organisation, in normalised CO emissions to no more than 2.8 tonnes per 2 accordance with section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall 1,000 hours worked by 2015.
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010.
We remain respectful of human rights Our continued inclusion in both the and continue to sign up to the UN Global FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Compact, which establishes standards Europe indices is strong evidence of for human rights, labour practices and our responsible business progress and anti-corruption.
com responsible-business Responsible business 28 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMUNITY We are a global business with a local presence in many Project: Reach Out Initiative countries.
We take our role as a responsible corporate IMI Company: CCI Bangalore citizen seriously and aim to support the needs of the communities in which we operate by implementing high social and environmental standards across the Group.
We also recognise the importance of organising fundraising events and community volunteering not just for the positive impact it has on local charities but also for the positive impact it has on our employees.
The 2012 CEO Awards: Voluntary work with St Georges Crypt IMI Company: Norgren Watson Smith CCI employees volunteer to paint and decorate the school St Georges Crypt is a charitable organisation local to our Norgren facility near Leeds.
Operating in the heart of Leeds city centre, St Georges Crypt works with the homeless, vulnerable and those suffering from addiction to drugs and alcohol.
The charity offers immediate shelter, cooked meals, clean clothes and facilities in which to wash as well as bedroom accommodation, advice and assistance to overcome addiction and nd more long-term housing solutions.
In June 2012, Norgren employees organised a day of activities CCI employees hand out toys and clothes to children and spent time cooking and serving hot meals and sandwiches to the guests and hosted a number of indoor games, including In 2012, CCI in Bangalore launched a new Corporate bowling, darts, ping-pong throw and a rafe.
The business is Social Responsibility group called Reach Out, a now building a long-term relationship with the charity and has programme which focused on schools with poor launched a volunteering programme staffed by its employees.
infrastructure and which are attended by students from Based on feedback from the Crypt that guests often struggle impoverished families or those with more acute needs with self-esteem and communication, Norgren is planning to such as learning difficulties or physical disability or who leverage the skills of people within its business to run had suffered neglect or abuse.
The Reach Out team took over the running and operation T of a r o emote Government school, in Bangalore, which The IMI W I Wa ay runner y runner-upup supports 135 students fr s om poor families.
A team of 25 award is pr is presented esented by CEO by CEO employees fr e om CCI volunteered to paint and decorate the Martin Lamb to Chris Prince Lamb to Chris Prince school on The IMI W s ay Day and provided basic materials representing Nor enting Norg gr re en n such as sitting mats and s shoes for every child.
s In addition, CCI I employees donated e clothes, toys and c stationery to local families, s and hope to undertake a mor m e voluntary activities and fundraising for the a Reach Out pr R ogramme in 2013. i IMI plc Annual Report 2012 29
