Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 12 People and Values Our people are highly skilled and committed to delivering excellence.
Were focused on supporting them to develop their skills and achieve their career aspirations.
Engagement Values People Capabilities Values, capabilities and engagement Were focused on creating an inspiring are integral to the development of environment where people can do our people.
We support their career aspirations and encourage Our capability framework is aligned creative thinking so that their talents with our values and strategy, and and skills ourish.
includes the behaviours, skills and knowledge required for our people See how we are enabling our people to drive our strategy forward p43 to achieve our sales growth ambitions.
Driving our business forward Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 13 Our values uniquely express what our business and our people stand for.
The combination of the We and the I values re ect the way we operate, encouraging both collaborative teamwork and individual contribution.
We can Everything is possible, together we win We surprise New thinking, new actions, exceed whats possible I engage Listen, share, make connections I own See it, seize it, make it happen We enjoy Thrive on challenge, make it fun I am My contribution counts, think free, speak free, act with integrity Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 14 Sales Growth Drivers For an overview of our Portfolio Innovation Management business model see p2 Sales growth drivers Customer Pricing Engagement Roberto Funari Portfolio Management Group Marketing Director More Consumers, More Occasions Total Tobacco in Action The starting point Through portfolio management we apply our unique portfolio to maximise is always our our share of consumers and consumption occasions to drive quality growth.
Put simply, its total tobacco in action.
consumers: were The starting point is always our consumers: understanding their choices building total tobacco and preferences through our consumer insight work is crucial to the way we manage our portfolio.
It enables us to make the most of sales brands that truly growth opportunities by building total tobacco brands that truly resonate resonate with them.
Enhancing Davidoff Sales Our work on developing Davidoff to realise its global growth potential has been a major portfolio management initiative during the year.
Davidoff is a key strategic brand that continues to perform strongly on an international scale.
In June we launched Davidoff iD, a new kingsize range thats enhanced the brands appeal to a far wider base of consumers whilst retaining its premium credentials.
Weve made Davidoff iD available in standard and GlideTec packs and by the end of the year wed launched it in 19 markets worldwide, with many more to follow.
The response from consumers and retailers has been excellent and the sales were generating are enhancing Davidoffs overall growth momentum.
Davidoff volumes bns % 19.7 6 18.1 3 year CAGR 17.0 10 11 12 Driving quality growth Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 15 For an overview of our Portfolio Innovation Management business model see p2 Sales growth drivers Customer Pricing Engagement Innovation New Consumer Experiences Delivering High Returns As with portfolio management, deep consumer insights are key to our innovation sales growth driver.
Were translating those insights into tangible ideas and concepts that allow us to deliver new consumer experiences across our total tobacco portfolio.
The innovation pipeline were building focuses on scalable initiatives that will deliver high returns.
By scalable, we mean innovations that have international appeal and can be rolled out across our diverse markets.
World-leading GlideTec Pack GlideTec is a world-leading pack innovation built around the sociability of smoking, enabling smokers to offer a cigarette with a one handed motion.
Pack innovations like GlideTec provide smokers with choice and reinforce brand differentiation.
First launched in the UK with Lambert & Butler, GlideTecs a great example of how we combine consumer insights with a fewer, bigger, better approach to deliver quality growth across multiple markets.
So far weve launched GlideTec in 17 markets including in France with Gauloises, Spain with Fortuna, Germany with JPS and in Saudi Arabia with Davidoff iD.
Weve already sold over a billion cigarettes in GlideTec packs and this innovation will be applied to more brands in more markets in the coming year.
GlideTec volumes 1bn GlideTec sales Feb 11 Sep 12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Number of cigarettes Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 16 Sales Growth Drivers continued For an overview of our Portfolio Innovation Management business model see p2 Sales growth drivers Customer Pricing Engagement Pricing Maximising Revenue Growth Managing Pricing and Excise Our understanding of consumer purchasing behaviours enables us to make effective pricing decisions by brand, pack size and sales channel.
Were focused on maximising revenue growth whilst continuing to give consumers value for money.
Excise can account for over 80 per cent of the price that consumers pay for tobacco products in some markets and so its important that we consider government excise strategies as part of our pricing decisions.
We encourage governments to take a sensible approach to excise increases in order to protect their revenues and to avoid fuelling illicit trade.
USA Pricing Strategy Our cigarette market share in the USA has been under pressure due to the increasingly uncompetitive price positioning of our two main brands, USA Gold and Sonoma.
We conducted a detailed and thorough pricing analysis, taking the time to understand what drives the purchasing behaviours of our consumers.
Based on these insights we devised a new pricing strategy with the objective of stabilising our market share.
Between February and May 2012 we successfully trialled our new strategy in four key states and in June we applied this strategic approach to a further 15 states.
The strategys improved the performance of USA Gold and Sonoma and stabilised our overall cigarette market share at 3.4 per cent over the remaining three months of the financial year.
Developing stronger connections Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 17 For an overview of our Portfolio Innovation Management business model see p2 Sales growth drivers Customer Pricing Engagement Arthur van Benthem Customer Engagement Group Sales Director Availability and Advocacy Excellent Retail Partnerships Were building even We have long-standing partnerships with retailers around the world, stronger connections from large multi-national supermarkets to small independent shops, and through customer engagement we work hard to provide them with our retail with excellent service at all times.
partners around We work with our retail partners to maximise both the availability and the advocacy of our brands and products at the point of sale which is an the world to drive important part of our sales strategy.
Customer engagement bene ts both sales growth.
parties and is particularly important in highly regulated environments where the voice of the retailer is crucial to building consumer awareness of new brand launches and innovations.
Customer Engagement in Australia Our continued focus on building our customer relationships in Australia is delivering excellent results.
This further supports our investments behind our portfolio and key brands Horizon, JPS and Champion and builds awareness of our innovation initiatives.
Retailer advocacy is particularly important in Australia given the introduction of the plain packaging of tobacco products in December 2012.
Last year we worked closely with our trade customers during the plain packaging consultation and our No Nanny State advertising campaign.
This helped us to further strengthen these key relationships.
Customer engagement has been essential to the market share gains we have delivered this year: weve grown our Australian cigarette share to 19.4 per cent and our ne cut tobacco share to 60.7 per cent 2011: 19.1 per cent and 59.9 per cent respectively.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
