Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 37 Corporate Responsibility Review Sustainability and Responsibility: What corporate responsibility means to us Responsibility is central to our sustainable growth strategy how we behave today impacts our business tomorrow.
Millions of people around the world choose to enjoy our tobacco products every day.
We make, market and sell our brands and products in a way that is nancially, socially and environmentally responsible.
We also actively support our consumers and proactively tackle important issues such as the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
We respect the natural resources we use, whether its tobacco leaves, wood for paper and packaging or water to grow and then process our tobacco.
Our manufacturing processes use energy and water and create waste, and we focus on reducing our environmental impact.
The welfare of our people is very important to us.
Weve created a rewarding work place for our 37,000 employees with our values guiding the way they work with each other, our business partners and other stakeholders.
We operate on an international scale and make many positive contributions to society, not just in terms of wealth creation and employment, but by being an active member of the communities of which we are part.
Find out more online You will nd several QR codes throughout the CR section of this report.
Download a QR code scanning app to your smartphone and scan the code to access extra content online at www.
com cr Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 38 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Supporting Stakeholders and the Communities we Operate in 37,000 employees In countries around the globe: indirectly the tobacco industry sustains tens of millions of jobs, most of them in the developing world 20 billion 44 47 Returned to governments countries where factories Every year through duty, excise we source tobacco and company taxation for our products US$300 million Investment to ght illicit trade Through a 20 year partnership agreement we initiated in 2010 with the European Commission and EU member states 7.9 billion Paid to shareholders Through dividends and share buybacks since 1996, bene ting millions of pensions and other investments worldwide which in turn supports international economies Leaf buying, processing Product and planning manufacture Our global operations and the contribution we make Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 39 Respecting natural resources Weve reduced CO emissions 2 by 4 per cent and energy consumption by 5 per cent Supporting consumers We stand up for our consumers by ghting disproportionate regulation and championing their right to enjoy tobacco products 160 markets where we sell our products Tackling child labour We actively oppose child labour and are a board member of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Foundation Storage and Sales, marketing and Delighting and satisfying distribution brand management our consumers Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials s t R c e u i n d o v e r p s t i h n t i g w i e n l b s i s o n c o i p e t s e y R 40 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Sustainability and Responsibility Responsibility and our Strategy: Reporting on our Performance Every year we use our annual report to update you on Whats Important and Why?
the progress were making in managing our important Our most important responsibility issues are those which have responsibility issues.
the potential to impact our business and are of the greatest interest to our stakeholders.
These issues are highlighted in the More detailed information on other responsibility issues table below.
To nd out more about how were managing risks is available in the Responsibility section of our corporate associated with these issues see pages 52 to 55 of this report.
com cr Focus Area Important Issues Responsible with Products Tobacco and Health Regulatory Engagement Anti-Illicit Trade Rewarding Workplace Our People Our Values Workplace Health and Safety Respecting Natural Climate Change Resources Environmental Performance Reinvesting in Society Responsible Sourcing Goals CR Framework By assessing whats important for us to continue to successfully develop our business and by understanding the Focus Areas To support To create a external expectations of our stakeholders, legitimate great weve carefully identi ed four long-term markets and workplace consumers goals and focus areas which are fide ned in our CR Framework.
We use these to align our business activities and stakeholder issues and set new objectives each year to further drive responsible performance.
Our Values Code of Conduct To make To reduce our positive societal environmental contributions impact Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 R e s e p c e a c l t p i k n r g o n w a t g u r n a i l d r r e a s w o e u r R c e s Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 41 2012 Performance Highlights 2013 Priorities We have delivered a number of CR performance highlights this Our top level priorities for 2013 are below with our detailed year driven by the responsible behaviour and contribution of objectives for 2013 on our website.
Responsible with Products Responsible with Products Increase market engagement on responsible sales issues Our intelligence assisted law enforcement agencies to with the roll-out of an enhanced anti-illicit trade framework make the largest ever seizure of Chinese counterfeit and toolbox.
Continue to support our consumers by driving forward Investment in our agship research and development facility consumer relevant quality and simplifying our complaint at Fleury-les-Aubrais in France.
Rewarding Workplace Rewarding Workplace We delivered over 80 Our People workshops globally to Further reduce accidents towards zero lost time accidents bring our values to life and build our people capabilities.
with continued management commitment and employee engagement through initiatives such as the Safety Pin We have further reduced the number of lost time accidents quiz competition.
and are pleased that 15 factories have recorded zero LTAs for more than 12 months.
Embed our new responsibility strategy focused on engaging our people and enabling creativity around our values.
Respecting Natural Resources We reduced energy use by 5 per cent and exceeded Respecting Natural Resources targeted energy savings of 1.5 million.
Promote an approach of reduce, re-use and recycle with a speci c focus on factory excellence based on best practice We increased our score in the Carbon Disclosure Project to manufacturing techniques.
75 per cent and reduced carbon emissions by 4 per cent.
Target energy reductions by establishing further energy Reinvesting in Society saving contracts.
We engaged with key leaf suppliers on wood sustainability and improved our score by 8 per cent for our Social Reinvesting in Society Responsibility in Tobacco Production Programme.
Strengthen our community involvement through the development of key partnerships and by supporting We conducted an independent review of our direct and employee activities.
indirect business impacts in Morocco which highlighted a number of positive contributions and identi ed areas Progress our leaf sustainability strategy with an action plan for improvement.
for wood self suf ciency in Africa and targets for further improvement in supplier performance.
External Recognition of our Progress We maintained a Gold status in the 2012 Business in The Community Corporate Responsibility Index Key data reported in the annual report and accounts for We achieved our highest ever score of 76 per cent in the the year to 30 September 2012 has been independently SAM assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index assured under the limited assurance requirements of the ISAE3000 standard by PwC.
They have also been engaged to look at our alignment with AA1000AS 2008 principles of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness.
Some of the selected data covered by this assurance is clearly highlighted within the Corporate Responsibility section of the annual report and all of the selected data is included in the Corporate Responsibility section of the website www.
com cr where their limited assurance statement can be found.
PwC have provided Imperial Tobacco with CR assurance services from FY10.
Earlier data was assured by another provider.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 42 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Corporate Responsibility Performance 2012 In Europe the key driver of regulation is the European Responsible with Products Commission, through the European Union Tobacco Products Directive EUTPD which is currently being revised.
Weve continued to engage with relevant ministries both within Overview individual EU Member States and within the EU Commission Every day millions of people choose to enjoy our tobacco and are seeking to ensure that any changes to the EUTPD products.
Were focused on manufacturing, marketing and by the Commission are based on factual, scienti c and selling our products in a way that is nancially, socially and robust evidence.
We stand up for our consumers by ghting unreasonable regulation and championing our Anti-illicit Trade consumers right to enjoy smoking.
Through our anti-illicit trade activities we work hard to stop the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
By doing Were protecting the legitimate tobacco market which helps so we protect the legal duty paid tobacco market from to ensure that tobacco products are sold only to adults, unregulated product.
and criminals do not pro t through illicit trade.
We have invested US$300 million to ght illicit trade through a Tobacco and Health 20 year partnership agreement with the European Commission We recognise that stakeholders have concerns over and EU member states.
the potential health risks associated with tobacco-use.
Our scientists monitor and review tobacco and health During 2012, as a result of investigations undertaken by developments and make the results of our scienti c Imperial, the largest single EU seizure of Chinese counterfeit research available to the public via our science website cigarettes was made.
We passed intelligence to the European www.
Anti-Fraud Of ce OLAF in Brussels who worked with the authorities to identify several suspect containers.
This led to During 2012 we invested in our agship research and further raids, seizing 160 million counterfeit cigarettes.
development facility at Fleury-les-Aubrais in France.
We have increased the number of accredited methods and laboratory We have a number of co-operation agreements or Memoranda techniques so we can better respond to product regulation of Understanding MoUs in place to help us formalise the way developments.
Further details can be found on our website.
we share information with customs authorities.
We have a total of 21 MoUs, including newly signed agreements with France, Regulatory Engagement Luxembourg and Kosovo.
We proactively engage with regulators, governments and other stakeholders on a range of tobacco issues.
We support Our tracking and tracing systems follow the movement of bulk balanced, proportionate regulation and continue to oppose quantities of genuine product through the supply chain.
If theres regulation that undermines consumer and commercial freedoms a seizure of genuine smuggled tobacco products, we can assist such as attempts to ban smoking in private spaces, product law enforcement of cials to determine where the seized tobacco display restrictions and further encroachment on our packaging.
products came from and where they were supposed to go.
Much of our engagement this year has been focused on the At an industry level were continuing to develop new and plain packaging of tobacco products, which we strongly innovative tracking and tracing systems.
Plain packaging represents an unwarranted attack The Digital Coding & Tracking Association founded by Imperial on our valuable trademarks and intellectual property rights.
Tobacco, British American Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and Philip Making all tobacco products available in the same, easy-to-copy Morris International develops and promotes tracking and tracing plain packaging will also signi cantly increase counterfeiting, standards.
This includes a supply chain control system known undermining the joint anti-illicit trade initiatives we work on with as Codentify which uses advanced digital coding technology police and customs authorities worldwide.
printed directly onto product packaging, replacing easy-to-copy The plain packaging of tobacco products will be introduced in paper-based tax stamps.
Australia is the only country in The association is working with INTERPOL to make Codentify the world to implement plain packaging laws.
A legal challenge accessible via a new INTERPOL Global Register IGR to combat against the legislation by Imperial Tobacco and other tobacco illicit trade.
companies was rejected by the High Court of Australia.
Elsewhere, government consultations on plain packaging are ongoing in the UK and New Zealand and we continue to actively participate in the debate.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 43 Rewarding Workplace Responsible with Products: 1 Performance Indicators Overview Our goal is to create an inspiring work environment for our employees, so that they can do their best work.
We support their career aspirations and build their capabilities so that their talents and skills ourish.
We take the time to listen to our 34 people, reward them fairly and respect them as individuals.
% Number of countries 3 Values, Capabilities, Engagement for which cigarette ingredients are published Values, capabilities and engagement are integral to the Percentage increase in on Imperial Tobaccos Global Quality index development of our people.
corporate site 2011: 34 Our capability framework is aligned with our values and our strategy, and includes the behaviours, skills and knowledge required for our people to achieve our sales growth ambitions.
1 2012 data has been assured by PwC.
See website for further Our values provide us with a common bond, guiding the way we information.
do business and in uencing the way we behave.
During 2012 we launched new values see page 13 across our global operations.
This has included running 80 Our People Case Studies workshops for over 1,000 managers around the world between January and April 2012 that brought the values to life and Case studies of our progress are on our website.
focused on further building our capabilities to deliver our sales Insights from the Head of Science and Stewardship growth strategy.
Engaging with Regulators The Food and Drug In addition, our values have been embedded into our annual Administration performance and development reviews, meaning every member of the management team will be measured on how they are Supporting our consumers with smoking shelters delivering their objectives in line with our values.
A journey of continuous improvement Lao Were continuing to drive engagement across our business and this year are conducting a much wider survey to gather the views of a much wider employee population which is taking place in November 2012.
This builds on the engagement actions we have progressed since our management engagement survey towards the end of 2010.
The first meeting of the Imperial Tobacco European Employee Works Council ITEEWC was held in December 2011.
This is a forum that combined our European Forum EEF and the Comite dEnterprise European du Groupe Altadis to discuss transnational issues affecting employees in Europe.
Senior executives and employee representatives came together to share information on the Companys performance and future plans and discuss issues affecting our European employees.
The next meeting is being held in December 2012.
Workplace Health & Safety We provide a safe, well-equipped, working environment for our forts to people and actively encourage them to be part of our ef make Imperial Tobacco a great place to work.
Our annual Safety Pin quiz competition, which tests manufacturing employees on their safety, quality, environmental and product knowledge, has been a real success story.
This year more than 2,000 manufacturing employees at 43 sites worldwide took part and further details can be found on our website.
In addition, an enhanced behavioural safety training initiative is being rolled-out across our factories in the next 12 months to build on previous successful schemes around health and safety in the workplace.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 44 Corporate Responsibility Review continued We have invested in new machinery and factory infrastructure across the business to achieve greater ef ciency as well as Rewarding Workplace: health and safety bene ts.
Performance Indicators A further nine facilities have achieved OHSAS 18001 certi cation recognising their commitment to occupational health and safety, including the Skopje factory in Macedonia which extended the scope to include eld sales operations.
We have continued our efforts to reduce the number of % Lost Time Accidents LTAs incidents that lead to employee 59 absences and major injuries, and are pleased that 15 factories have recorded zero LTAs for more than 12 months.
Engagement score across management Employment Policies team We apply universally accepted standards for human rights to ensure our people are treated with fairness, dignity and respect.
This is reinforced through offering equal opportunities and giving fair consideration to applications for employment, career development and promotion, without having regard to an employees gender, race, religion, age or disability.
Rewarding Workplace: Lost time accidents These policies also cover the continuation of employment and and sickness per 200,000 hours appropriate training for employees who become disabled during their employment.
Our policies ensure that candidates are 1.57 chosen on merit which involves the consideration of women for all positions within the organisation.
1.30 To ensure employees can share in our success we offer 1.08 competitive pay and bene ts packages linked, wherever 3.73 possible, to performance.
Employees are encouraged to build 2.97 a stake in the Company through ownership of the Companys 2.76 shares, with a number of employee share plans offered during the year.
Case Studies Case studies of our progress are on our website.
09 10 11 Safety Pin quiz competition Baseline Q Sickness absence days sickness average number working days Apprentice scheme UK incl.
1 Supporting employee health in Cote DIvoire Q Lost time accident frequency rate.
Human Rights and Social Assessments 1 2011 lost time frequency rate is assured by PwC see website for more information.
We report health and safety data 12 months in Award from German Health Ministry arrears to allow for data collection and verification.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 45 Respecting Natural Resources Case Studies Case studies of our progress are on our website.
Overview Environmental management in Taiwan Our manufacturing processes use energy and water and create waste and were working to achieve our goal of reducing our Producing renewable energy environmental impact.
Fuel-ef cient rocket barns Climate Change Protecting Moroccos beaches Our goal is to reduce energy usage by 20 per cent by 2020.
Our climate change strategy aims to reduce our impact through energy conservation, lower carbon technology, renewable energy and, where applicable, carbon offsetting.
Energy saving initiatives at our factories in Logroo, Spain and Radom, Poland, have both exceeded the target savings of 1.5 million.
We plan to introduce similar initiatives at our larger factories worldwide in a phased eight-year programme and expect them to deliver substantial savings in energy costs.
Further details on our climate change risks and opportunities can be found on our website.
Carbon Disclosure Project The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP is an independent not-for-pro t organisation that encourages private and public sector organisations to measure and reduce emissions and climate change impacts.
As part of our wider carbon management strategy, we have responded to the CDP annual Information Request for a number of years.
In 2012, we increased our score to 75 per cent.
We continue to engage with our strategic suppliers to identify opportunities for shared savings and to reduce the impact of climate change.
We continued to improve supplier participation in the CDP Supply Chain initiative, including participation of our logistics business Logista.
Further details are available at www.
Environmental Performance We continue to reduce waste to land ll and water consumption ed with our 2009 baseline.
The unveri ed data for 2012 compar indicates that this trend is continuing.
71 per cent of our factories have achieved ISO 14001 accreditation of their environmental management standards.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 46 Corporate Responsibility Review continued 1 Respecting Natural Resources: Performance Indicators CO equivalent Absolute CO equivalent Energy consumption 2 2 emissions from emissions from KWh million manufacturing process manufacturing Tonnes million process Tonnes 46.6 45.7 44.5 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Baseline Baseline Baseline Waste Tonnes million Waste to landll Water consumption Tonnes million mains and abstracted 3 m million 8.25 2.08 321 7.97 300 7.47 1.87 290 1.69 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Baseline Baseline Baseline 1 Current FY data has been assured by PwC: please see the website for more information.
Environmental data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and veri cation.
Our cigar and cigarette manufacturing sites and main of ces measure energy by revenue.
For completeness we have restated our baseline to 2009 to incorporate this unit.
Environmental data includes all manufacturing sites over which we have operational control.
Ozone depleting substances and our cigar operations have been included in our reporting scope.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 307,132 310,687 307,973 150,419 146,814 142,268 Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 47 Our supply relationships also support our anti-illicit trade Reinvesting in Society initiatives and enable them to comply with the high standards set out in our Code of Conduct.
Overview Partnership Investment We are active members of many different communities around We allocated 3 million to partnership investment in 2012. the world and have built long-standing relationships with In addition to this central investment, there were a number many stakeholders.
of financial contributions at a local level as well as employee volunteering and management time to maximise the bene ts Responsible Sourcing from our involvement.
Our main supplier engagement and assessment programmes are the Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRiTP for This year, we also commissioned an independent review of our tobacco suppliers and the Supplier Quali cation Programme direct and indirect business impacts in Morocco.
The impact for the supply of non-tobacco materials.
assessment highlighted a range of positive societal and economic bene ts from our operations and informed the local Leaf Partnership approach by identifying a number of areas where our positive The majority of the tobacco we use is from the leading impacts can be enhanced.
international leaf supply companies only a small amount is purchased directly from growers.
All of our leaf suppliers are During 2012 many of our employees also gave their time to required to participate in the SRiTP programme.
contribute to local community projects in a number of markets.
More information, including case studies, is available on Our enhancements to the programme, including minimum our website.
performance standards, helped focus our supplier engagement during 2012.
The overall SRiTP percentage increased to Stakeholder Panel 68 per cent 63 per cent: 2010, indicating that a good degree Representatives from our main stakeholder groups, including of risk management is in place.
consumers, investors, suppliers, employees and the wider community, met with us again in 2012 through our Stakeholder We continue to work with and seek to improve low scoring Panel.
They shared their views on the business and their suppliers, however if a supplier consistently fails to meet valuable input continues to help shape our approach to our minimum standards we consider ending our business Corporate Responsibility.
Their feedback as well as our relationship with them.
response can be found on our website.
We also continued to focus on the challenge of sustainable wood supply for tobacco curing, which includes issues such as biodiversity and climate change.
We have engaged with our suppliers, increased our support through a new agronomy team and are targeting improvements in performance with our suppliers in this area.
We continue to support the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco ECLT Foundation, of which we are a board member.
The ECLT works with communities in tobacco growing regions to address Reinvesting in Society: the underlying causes of child labour.
Non-tobacco Materials Performance Indicator Our non-tobacco material suppliers comply with our cation programme, which includes social and Supplier Quali environmental criteria.
We conduct audits to ensure compliance Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production 1 against our own standards as well as ISO 9001 certi cation for SRiTP progress total weighted mean % quality and ISO 14001 for environmental impact.
68 63 60 Case Studies Case studies of our progress are on our website.
Supporting sustainable development in West Africa Protection of forests in Malawi The Altadis Foundation 09 10 11 1 99 per cent of tobacco suppliers participated in the SRiTP programme in 2011.
The one non-responding supplier has been included into the programme for 2012.
FY11 data has been assured by PwC.
See our website for more information.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
