Corporate Responsibility report As a global industry leader, we seek to make a positive impact on the lives of our people, our customers and the communities in which we operate around the world.
During the year, we developed a clear Corporate Responsibility CR mission to promote Mobility with Passion and Care and we aim to achieve our mission by adopting a global approach to embedding responsible behaviour into the way we operate, growing a sustainable business for the bene t of all our stakeholders our Communities, Environment, Customers, People and Brand Partners.
It is the spirit and energy of our people that shapes and fide fines how we bring CR to life and we celebrate local activities and share CR best practices with the whole organisation through our Green Baton programme.
The baton passes from market to market throughout the year, giving each of our businesses the opportunity to showcase the inspirational CR activities they are implementing in their communities.
Our Green Baton initiatives are shared with the Group on our intranet site, The Light.
In 2012 we launched Incredible Inchcape, our Group-wide engagement programme designed to mobilise our colleagues to take the Company to new heights, which gave us the opportunity to refresh our core purpose and vision in line with our Customer 1st strategy.
Following a launch event in Scotland, the programme was rolled out across the Group to engage our colleagues in our Values and to give them new tools designed to help them ful l their role in shaping the Groups future growth.
Our Corporate Responsibility We have effectively communicated our refreshed Values across mission is to promote Mobility all our businesses through our Living Inchcapeness programme.
Our Values act as a backdrop against which we make our with Passion and Care.
decisions on a day to day basis across the Group.
Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM, our Group-wide risk Andr Lacroix management programme, helps to fide ne and encourage the Group Chief Executive right way of doing business for our people across the globe, and ensures we drive good behaviours across the Group.
The iPOM Committee remit covers all risk including non financial risks and is constructed with the Groups Values at its heart.
Further WE CONTINUED TO DELIVER AGAINST OUR STATED GOALS information can be found in the Corporate Governance report IN 2012.
HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: on page 46. t The successful global rollout of the Green Baton We believe that our colleagues spirit, passion and enthusiasm, programme, which highlights local CR activities from across our markets globally combined with our mission to promote Mobility with Passion and Care, underpinned by our Values, means that we will continue to t Creation of a Group EH&S Steering Committee make a positive bearing on the lives of our people, our customers t Refreshed our Values and Core Purpose and the communities in which we operate, while managing our impact on the environment.
t Strengthened our CR presence on our Group intranet site, The Light t Developed a new mission for our CR activities to promote Mobility with Passion and Care Andr Lacroix, Group Chief Executive OUR FIVE CORE AREAS: Communities Environment Customers People Brand Partners We support our We manage our We drive constantly We attract, train We partner with local communities CO footprint by improving levels and motivate by brands that are 2 to make positive understanding of customer service engaging our people at the forefront of impacts where our impact every day, every in the strategy green technology we operate time, everywhere and vision of developments the Group 34 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT BEING ALWAYS AHEAD The Board is responsible for the strategic direction of Corporate A pioneering spirit is the very essence of the Company.
We Responsibility and ensuring that it is integrated into the Groups liberate talent, prize bold innovation and are passionate about strategy.
The CR Committee is responsible for setting the policy seizing opportunities ahead of our competitors.
within the framework established by the Board and ensuring that WINNING TOGETHER our businesses respond to the opportunities and risks posed by We are strong as individuals but were even stronger when we CR issues.
The CR Committee report can be found on page 49. work together as a team.
We are proud to be part of a rich global CR working groups and local CR Champions are responsible network of incredible Inchcape people.
for the day to day implementation of the CR policy.
INTEGRITY WITHOUT COMPROMISE OUR VALUES We have an uncompromising commitment to transparency and Our Values are living, shared beliefs within our business that ethical principles.
We believe in straight talking and taking inform our day to day behaviours.
These Values empower our responsibility for what we say and do.
culture, drive our business and enable us to contribute responsibly and sustainably to society.
CARING FOR OUR SOCIETY We are aware of our responsibilities as the global industry leader.
PASSIONATE ABOUT MAKING A DIFFERENCE We seek to make a positive impact on the lives of our People, our We feel empowered to make a difference and have the Customers and the Communities in which we operate around courage, determination and commitment to do so.
Our Corporate Responsibility mission is to promote committed to giving growth opportunities to our people, Mobility with Passion and Care.
delivering performance for our brand partners and creating magic moments for our customers as we take our Company TREATING EVERY AS OUR OWN to new heights.
Each one of us feels and acts like an owner of our Company.
We see cost as a good thing as long as it creates value.
We RESPECT AND CAMARADERIE hate waste and therefore think before we spend.
We leverage Our people are at the heart of who we are as a Company.
We our scale to achieve a cost and speed advantage over celebrate diversity, learn from each other and are proud to be our competitors.
We rise to any challenge together: our friendship, respect for each other and sense of Inchcape family make us incredibly strong and we have fun along the way.
CORE AREAS AND THEIR RISKS Core Element Description and risk Mitigation Communities Lack of engagement with the communities in which we Encourage employees to support local charities and operate leading to a poor reputation and lack initiatives that directly benefit their community of understanding of our customer base Environment Energy can be a significant cost to the Group as By nding ways to cut back on energy usage the well as increasing our CO footprint Group saves money and also signicantly reduces its 2 CO emissions 2 Unnecessary business travel can increase the CO Manage travel by use of alternative communication tools 2 footprint of the Group Unmanaged shipments of cars and parts can adversely Ensure co-ordinated shipping programmes to meet supply impact our CO footprint 2 Customers Poor customer service leads to decrease in revenue Inchcape Advantage embedded in all our sales and aftersales operations Net Promoter Score to measure customer satisfaction and identify areas for improvement People Employees lack motivation and engagement: unable Differentiated service and customer feedback instills pride to attract and retain talent and continuous engagement in the workforce.
Expansion of business creates good career opportunities for employees Brand Partners Unable to deliver on strategy through lack of Carefully selecting brand partners that invest in technology competitive products Support brand partners in seeking positive labour practices including safe working environments and the eradication of child labour www.
com 35 Corporate Responsibility report continued COMMUNITIES t We talked to 85,400 customers for our vehicle sales Our people are core to driving our CR strategy by implementing NPS programme local programmes across our markets.
This ensures that we create t We talked to 85,634 service customers for our aftersales NPS CR programmes and activities which engage with and have an The Net Promoter Score NPS has improved again across the impact within the communities in which we operate.
The Mother Group in both Sales and Service.
and Child Rehabilitation Centre supported by our colleagues in Ethiopia, is just one of the incredible examples of the inspiring PEOPLE work carried out by our employees in their communities, across We know that it is our people that make all the difference and the Group.
throughout 2012 we continued to develop our people strategy In 2012 these activities were shared at a Group level with the of engaged people in winning teams by focusing on the Right launch of the Green Baton programme.
The Green Baton is People, Right Learning, Right Reward and Right Culture.
In 2012 passed between markets every two weeks and the markets we launched Incredible Inchcape: our Group-wide are encouraged to share with colleagues the CR initiatives engagement programme designed to mobilise our colleagues implemented and the impact this is creating within their to take the Company to new heights.
This can be found within the CR section of our Group intranet The Light, and has proved highly successful in RIGHT PEOPLE showcasing specic market CR initiatives from around the Group, As a global company, we are able to leverage the benets of a providing inspiration and motivation amongst our employees.
We have strong processes which are aimed at Further detail of our CR initiatives can be found in the constantly improving the quality of our hiring and our talent Responsibilty section at www.
As a consequence we are able to offer exciting development opportunities for our talent, including ENVIRONMENT international transfers.
During 2012, we reviewed our data collection process and the KPIs measured in order to ascertain our CO usage.
The RIGHT LEARNING 2 Committee agreed that the current KPIs, Energy, Transport and We aim to create and promote a rich environment of learning for Flights previously identied as the areas having the most impact, everyone.
Through programmes such as Grow with Inchcape we remained relevant and will continue to be measured.
ensure that internal development happens for everyone.
This can be on the job training or through a variety of development CO DATA CAPTURE & REPORTING SYSTEM 2 options, including job rotation or stretching new roles.
By doing The Group is currently developing a secure Intranet based web this, we are creating a pipeline of talent who have been internally application that will allow each market to submit monthly CO 2 nurtured and developed.
Our Executive Committee is a great data and provide the Company with the ability to review and example of this, where most of the current Committee members summarise the data.
Following the Department for Environment, have been developed within the Group before being appointed Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA guidance, the system will utilise to their current role.
Biographies of the Executive Committee can the standard conversion factors to report environmental KPIs be found on pages 40 to 41. and greenhouse gas emissions in a uniform and concise way, showing trends with year on year variances.
RIGHT REWARD We have several schemes across the Group which are designed The following measures will be reported for Group and to ensure that our people feel valued and are recognised for their each market: contribution to the business.
Our recognition and rewards policy t Energy consumption from utilities is geared towards reinforcing the right behaviours in keeping with our Values and the interests of our shareholders.
t Transportation of vehicles distribution markets t Transportation of parts distribution markets RIGHT CULTURE We recognise that it is the engagement of our colleagues t Business travel not commuting around the world that brings our Customer 1st strategy to life.
t Number of and distance travelled during test drives We proactively develop employee engagement through a variety of programmes, including workshops designed to align each t CO per revenue 2 colleague with the strategic plan as well as give them toolkits CUSTOMERS to help them unleash their own potential as well as the potential Our Customer 1st strategy is at the heart of everything we do and of their colleagues.
creates incredible growth for our people, our brand partners and BRAND PARTNERS our shareholders.
Our strategy is to strengthen the business Our brand partners are carefully selected for each market in through delivering a superior customer experience.
They have each developed comprehensive CUSTOMER 1ST IN 2012 sustainability programmes and the automotive industry in t We carried out 2,431 mystery shop exercises in 211 retail centre general has made significant progress in reducing vehicle showrooms across the Group emissions.
Our brand partners are at the forefront of technological advances to improve fuel efficiency.
t We carried out 2,284 mystery shop exercises in 200 service centres across the Group 36 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2012 THE EH&S ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Australasia Europe North Asia Inchcape plc Board South Asia 14,422 UK Russia and Emerging Markets Group iPOM Committee Our approach to safety aims to manage risks effectively by ensuring that our employees are fully trained and workplaces comply with safety regulations.
We report and monitor accidents EH&S Steering Committee Market iPOM Committees to ensure that the safety of our employees and customers remains at the top of our agenda.
NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS 2012 Local EH&S Local EH&S Local EH&S Local EH&S Champions Champions Champions Champions Location 2012 2011 Australasia 16 7 The Committees key tasks are: Europe 19 9 t Develop and maintain the Group EH&S Policy Statement North Asia 26 32 t Identify and deliver priority areas for the development of South Asia 4 2 Group-wide minimum standards and the roll out plan for UK 82 74 these standards Russia & Emerging Markets 8 5 t Review EH&S Audit results self audit reviews We are committed to providing a safe environment for our t Maintain EH&S organisational structure and allocate relevant employees and in 2012 we created a Group EH&S Steering resource to markets to help with EH&S embedding Committee.
The Committee will provide the leadership to deliver a clear Policy Statement, maintain an effective organisational t Develop and implement in-market EH&S Audits structure and to provide systematic tools which will allow the t Develop and conduct in-market training Group to signicantly and consistently improve its focus and t Identify key issues trends for senior management action delivery on EH&S.
The Committee is made up of regional EH&S co-ordinators and external experts and will meet at least three times a year to review progress against targets, develop tools and techniques which address any process or capability gaps and to allocate resource where required to support implementation of the required standards across the Group.
PROGRESS AGAINST GOALS Objective 2012 progress What we aim to do in 2013 Raising awareness Our intranet, The Light, has been rolled out in all The Green Baton initiative will continue in 2013 and inspire of local CR activities jurisdictions.
The Green Baton was launched in the colleagues to develop new local initiatives.
and employee summer and started in the UK.
More information engagement about the Green Baton journey can be found at through the www.
Green Baton Extending Health Established a global EH&S Steering Committee.
The EH&S Committee will identify and roll out best practice & Safety best standards throughout the Group.
practice to our operations worldwide CO data collection The CO data collection process was reviewed during Prepare and review data in accordance with DEFRA 2 2 the year.
standards in order to analyse global usage and trends.
