Informa plc Corporate Responsibility 2012 saw the re-launch of our approach to sustainability under the heading Louder than Words, reflecting the fact that we want our Corporate Responsibility CR programme to focus on outcomes rather than gestures.
Our programme is marked by an increasing sense of confidence, as we have worked hard to define the priorities that are uniquely relevant to us and our business objectives.
We continue to recognise content as our biggest CR impact: our ability to aspire, challenge and engage our many audiences across our range of publications, events and business services is unique to us and the sector we work in.
We made great progress in furthering that agenda in 2012.
Emma Blaney Group HR Director & Head of Corporate Responsibility 32 32 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT INFORMA DEVELOPING THE HIGHEST QUALITY CONTENT Traditionally seen as a low-impact industry, the media sector, The common denominator for all our businesses is that and its role in society, was the topic of much debate in the they thrive on delivering high quality, trusted content.
Discussions around trust and the integrity of quality assurance processes vary between the different content were widespread and continue to dominate formats we specialise in, ranging from events and training headlines.
Our continued success depends on our ability to to academic publications.
meet and exceed the expectations of our stakeholders, Our Academic Information division operates a robust and well whether they are clients using our products and services such regarded peer review process to ensure that content is always as health practitioners, social scientists or business leaders, or of the highest standard.
Both of Informas major publishing arms our own employees.
Therefore, our core responsibility relates work with the Committee on Publication Ethics COPE, a to the integrity and delivery of our content.
While focus has charity dedicated to promoting the integrity of peer-reviewed been given to this priority area in the following pages, details publications in science.
Our Professional and Commerical of our wider CR programme and our performance against our Information division has an editorial and content code in place, full CR objectives can be found in our standalone CR Report.
to which all editorial staff must adhere.
Our event production Informa consists of many distinct businesses.
Ownership of process is strongly research driven and some of our bigger CR at Informa is located with senior representatives in each events employ independent advisory boards to help shape of the businesses, who in turn are supported by the central content.
In addition to our formalised codes and procedures, CR function at Group level.
The CR function is overseen by all of our products are subject to rigorous research and analysis, Group HR Director and Head of Corporate Responsibility, as our clients choose us because of the bespoke nature of our Emma Blaney, who reports directly to the Chief Executive, content.
Where possible, we share best practice standards Peter Rigby.
and guidelines across the Group.
In 2012, we continued to receive considerable praise and recognition for the content we provide.
For example, Routledge was honoured by the Association of American Geographers for its long-term commitment to geography and its innovative efforts to enhance the quality of publications in the field.
Ovum, a part of Informa Telecoms & Media, was named Global Analyst Firm of the Year by the Institute of Industry Analyst Relations and was commended for its ease of use, value for money, objectivity and originality of research.
Several of our publications and events facilitate debate around sustainability directly.
Earthscan, a company in the Academic Information division, is widely recognised as the worlds leading publisher on sustainability and environmental technologies.
Two Earthscan books were included in Current Reviews for Academic Libraries Choice 2012 selection of Outstanding Academic Titles.
OUR BUSINESSES THRIVE ON DELIVERING HIGH QUALITY, TRUSTED CONTENT Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 33 33 Informa plc Corporate Responsibility CONTINUED ENSURING RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT MAINTAINING THE MOST INNOVATIVE AND OF THE BRIGHTEST PEOPLE TO MANAGE ACCESSIBLE PLATFORMS TO DELIVER OUR CONTENT CONTENT GLOBALLY As a knowledge-focused business, our success is fully The Groups publications and events help drive better dependent on attracting the best people and making decisions in just about all spheres of society: from health sure they stay up to date with developments within their science to shipping intelligence, leaving a truly global social, specialisation.
Training and professional development cultural and economic brainprint in our wake.
We do initiatives are widely available to our employees.
Our internal business in almost all countries and are always exploring training resource, Informa Academy, grew in popularity, ways to innovate our delivery platform and formats to increasing attendance to webinars and courses by 8% maximise reach and accessibility.
Moves towards open access gained momentum in 2012.
Open As a business, we now employ around 7,000 employees.
access refers to the idea of making research publications However, we seek to maintain an entrepreneurial mind-set freely accessible with minimal restrictions on how they can and avoid bureaucracy where we can.
Freedom to succeed be used.
The findings of the Finch Group, an expert working remains a defining principle of the work culture at Informa.
group on the matter, recommended that the UK Government Providing a flexible workplace is another mechanism by should encourage research funders, scientists and journal which we attract and retain the best talent: approximately publishers to back the open access model.
The report noted 56% of our total workforce and approximately 47% of our that widening access will require co-ordinated, balanced management grade staff are female.
action by funders, universities, researchers, libraries, publishers and others involved in research and that no The Groups commitment to flexible working arrangements, single channel can on its own maximise access to encouraging diversity and enabling employees to build their research publications.
careers was yet again recognised in 2012.
We were shortlisted for a WorkingMums Award as well as the Personnel Today We have held focus groups with key university stakeholders Award for workplace diversity as a result of our innovative and librarians to understand how open access will work in flexible working policy.
We were also certified as a Britains Top their institutions, and are investing resources in staff and new Employer organisation for the fifth year running.
systems to further develop our open access capabilities.
Currently, two thirds of our journals have an open access Increasingly, our staff can choose to volunteer and use their option and we expect all of our journals to have one by the professional skills for the good of community organisations.
Our partnership with the Princes Trust in the UK has continued to develop.
One of our training businesses will We continue to provide free and low-cost access to our be providing bespoke training workshops to the Princes publications to the research community and not-for-profit Trust business mentors in 2013.
In return, we get motivated institutions in developing countries.
We do so through the employees and maintain good links with local communities.
International Association for Digital Publishers Affordable Access Program and the Hinari Access to Research in Health Programme.
OUR SUCCESS IS FULLY DEPENDENT ON ATTRACTING THE BEST PEOPLE AND MAKING SURE THEY STAY UP TO DATE 34 34 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc TAYLOR & FRANCIS SUPERRETURN CHINA Taylor & Francis became the largest publisher in the ICBIs SuperReturn China, the worlds largest Chinese Thomson Reuters Journal Citation Reports Social private equity and venture capital event, won the Science Edition, reflecting its global research, Best New Conference Launch Award at the 2012 influence and impact.
DATAMONITOR HEALTHCARE OPEN ACCESS Datamonitor Healthcare launched a new service Taylor & Francis will provide an open access option platform to maximise accessibility, with active client for virtually all of their journals by the end of 2013. participation in its development.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 35 35
