Corporate Social Responsibility Employment 2012 highlights n Elected Staff Forums are established in the UK and Batam Rupert Pearce provides an overview of Inmarsats corporate in Indonesia and a Works Council in The Netherlands social responsibility framework.
n The Board received an annual update on health and safety activity across the Group which identified five continuing health and safety priorities based on business activities n Women continue to represent approximately 30% of Our safety services supported over our workforce.
1,500 calls made from vessels with safety, distress or urgency requirements, providing a regular reminder to us of the value of what we provide to those Community in need.
n Our safety services supported over 1,500 calls from vessels with safety, distress or urgency requirements n We invested in enhancing aviation safety services using our SwiftBroadband service n We continued our support of Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the telecommunications relief aid organisation n We supported a Race2Recovery race2recovery.
com team to compete in the gruelling Dakar Rally n We encouraged employees across our worldwide offices to support individual charities of their choice.
Environment n Type-approved satellite terminals are available from manufacturers who provide health and safety user guidance Rupert Pearce n Our sites where there are satellite dishes have restricted access Chief Executive Officer to protect the general public n We adopt the highest industry standards in terms of space debris mitigation n Our objective is to ensure we have no detrimental effect on the environment through our business operations.
Education n We continued to fund the Inmarsat Chair of Maritime Education and Training at the World Maritime University n We encourage internships with schools and universities n We sponsored the UK National Space Academy, which was created to teach space science subjects to students and their teachers.
32 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Ensuring we act in an ethical manner, taking account of our The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual update on Health and responsibilities socially and environmentally is important in Safety activity across the Group.
Rupert Pearce, CEO, has been the way we conduct our business.
We consider the interests of identified as having responsibility for health and safety issues our stakeholders, including investors, employees, suppliers and within the Inmarsat Global operations.
Our subsidiary operations business partners.
have various managers responsible for health and safety across their operations.
Our goal is to encourage strong leadership in The Code of Ethics policy states that Directors, officers and championing the importance of, and a common-sense approach employees are expected to conduct business in accordance to, health and safety in the workplace.
with the highest standards of personal and professional integrity.
The Code of Ethics is published on our website.
The Group recognises its legal responsibilities to ensure the well-being, safety and welfare of its employees and to maintain We comply with local laws where we operate, and across our a safe and healthy working environment for them and for visitors Group we ensure our employees comply with the UK Bribery and contractors.
Regular health and safety audits are undertaken Act and the US Foreign & Corrupt Practices Act.
Details of our at operating sites across the Group, with inspections during 2012 anti-bribery policy can be found on our website.
Our anti-bribery at premises in the UK, Canada and the US.
Across the Group, policy incorporates guidelines on dealing with gifts and accepting less than 20 accidents were reported, and we had no fatalities.
We held our first worldwide health and wellbeing programme across all our offices which received very positive feedback from We have separate policies in place dealing with ethics, fraud, our global workforce.
the use of inside information and whistleblowing.
We have identified five continuing health and safety priorities Employment based on business activities: We have established policies which address key corporate n objectives in the management of employee relations, DSE display screen equipment related ill-health communications and employee involvement, training and musculoskeletal disorders personal development, and equal opportunities.
n Working at height n Work-related stress We have an elected Staff Forum in the UK, Batam in Indonesia, n Manual handling and a Works Council in The Netherlands.
These groups extend n Lone working.
two-way communication between employees and management and allow the views of employees to be taken into account in Community making decisions which may affect their interests.
In the UK, the Our maritime heritage remains prevalent in how we support Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with mariners and the wider maritime community.
Key ways we prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation demonstrate this are: on contractual matters, as and when required.
In The Netherlands, the Works Council is constituted according to local requirements.
n Inmarsat remains the only approved provider of satellite communications services for the Global Mobile Distress and Wellbeing programme Safety System GMDSS and we continue to invest in the development of maritime safety services.
n Positive feedback Our Inmarsat C SafetyNET service continues to be used to provide vital updates on reported pirate activity.
The service We held our first worldwide health and wellbeing programme enables ship masters to access reports of pirate movements, across all our offices which received very positive feedback from giving them information to know which regions to avoid with our global workforce.
high pirate activity and allowing them to re-route if necessary.
n Our safety services supported over 1,500 calls made from vessels with safety, distress or urgency requirements, providing We give full consideration to applications from disabled persons a regular reminder to us of the value of what we provide to and to the continuing employment of staff that become disabled, those in need.
including making reasonable adjustments where appropriate or n We supported Guo Chuan guochuangsailing.
com in his solo considering them for alternative positions.
There is significant non-stop around the world sailing challenge enabling him to interest in the United Kingdom currently as to the numbers of maintain communications with the outside world.
women engaged in management positions in business.
Across the Inmarsat Group, women make up approximately 30% of the In addition to maritime safety services, we also promote safety workforce, and represent slightly more than 30% of our managers.
services to the aviation industry for use in the cockpit.
Our We are pleased that this percentage representation has remained commitment and investment to enhancing aviation safety consistent with the levels reported last year.
services using our SwiftBroadband service is progressing well.
Inmarsat plc 33 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our core charitable support is for Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, Employees across our offices are encouraged to support individual the telecommunications relief aid organisation.
TSF runs charities of their choice, and for employees in our principal UK programmes on disaster relief and preparedness, training other office, this is encouraged through the UK governments taxrelief organisations and regional and national disaster response approved contributions scheme.
For employees in our US agencies about the available capabilities for emergency Government business unit, the companys employee matching telecommunications.
TSF helps these organisations respond to fund includes a dollar-for-dollar match for all contributions made an emergency knowing they have the necessary training to use to charities elected by employees.
Throughout our offices there BGAN terminals and IsatPhone Pro, our handheld satellite phone.
are many local causes which are supported at a corporate and We believe the work TSF does is vital in emergency situations and employee level and we encourage our offices to get involved in we are delighted to continue to support them.
Environment During the year Tlcoms Sans Frontires set up telecoms The activities of the Group are judged to have a low environmental centres in drought-hit Kenya, and in Costa Rica and Guatemala impact and are not expected to give rise to any significant, following earthquakes, and led a national network of emergency inherent environmental risks over the next 12 months.
response teams in The Philippines in the wake of Typhoon Bopha.
They have also helped civilians to make calls in We are not a satellite modem manufacturer.
We only type approve Timbuktu, Mali, after the terrestrial network was destroyed.
satellite terminals accessing our system from manufacturers who provide health and safety guidance as to how terminals should be utilised.
Controls are in place to ensure that antennas do not radiate power at low-elevation angles.
We do, however, manufacture our handheld satellite phone, IsatPhone Pro.
The design and manufacturing processes have met all the relevant safety standards, and disposal requirements are included in the packaging for each handset.
Across our Group companies, we operate a number of ground earth stations, a microwave network, and VSAT and telemetry and tracking facilities where there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
Access to these sites is restricted and there are regular health and safety checks to ensure that they are in protected areas away from access by the general public.
Personnel who work at these sites are provided with relevant training as to health and Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support the use of our safety issues.
services, normally payphones, in rural villages in remote regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent.
Space debris Through our Global Government and Enterprise business Highest standards units respectively, we provided support for Race2Recovery, race2recovery.
com which was a team made up predominantly We disposed of a second Inmarsat-2 satellite in 2012. of wounded service personnel competing in the worlds toughest Its disposal was undertaken in full compliance with the off-road race the Dakar Rally: and we are also supporting the relevant ITU standards.
There are no near-term plans for effort by a British pilot to attempt to conquer the highest peak decommissioning any of the remaining satellites.
in the world raising money for good causes everestmillion.
com and stream live footage of his achievement from the summit.
As a satellite operator, we have adopted the highest industry standards in terms of space debris mitigation, including end-of-life Race2Recovery a team made up predominantly of wounded graveyard manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when service personnel became the first disabled team to they reach the end of their commercial life.
We disposed of a complete the worlds toughest off-road race, the Dakar Rally, second Inmarsat-2 satellite in 2012: the previous disposal was relying on Inmarsat equipment and services throughout the in 2006.
Its disposal was undertaken in full compliance with 15-day challenge.
There are no near-term plans for decommissioning any of the remaining satellites.
We operate our spacecraft in geosynchronous orbit, which is approximately 36,000km 22,240 miles above the Earth.
This orbit has significantly less debris than in a low earth orbit, which is approximately 700km above the Earth and where several MSS operators have their satellite constellations.
We have also been a founding member of the Space Data Association SDA since 2009.
Along with Intelsat, SES and Eutelsat we aim to improve the satellite safety of flight.
We were delighted that in March 2013, SDA received an innovation award for improving space safety, which recognises our efforts to make operations in orbit safer and more reliable.
We have over 1,600 staff worldwide represented by more than 45 different nationalities.
Due to the size and nature of these activities, we acknowledge that we have a degree of environmental impact on the local and global environment.
However, in terms of our size we are low generators of carbon due to the nature of our business operations.
34 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Some of these environmental impacts include the use of natural We continue to be committed to our waste management and resources, the consumption of energy and water, the production recycling scheme with volume at the same levels as last year.
of a variety of waste, in addition to staff and visitors travelling for business purposes around the globe.
Video conferencing VC and other collaborations tools are being used to reduce the dependency on air transport.
In addition to the VC units in London and Washington DC the video network Environment has been extended by adding equipment in Nyon, Switzerland, St Johns, Canada, and Houston, Texas, as these are key global Our impact offices for our business.
The activities of the Group are judged to have low For the 2011-12 Volvo Ocean Race, where we were appointed environmental impact.
Race Partner, organisers mounted a global campaign called Keep the Oceans Clean!.
There was an active campaign via the Volvo Our objective is to ensure that the Group does not have any Ocean Race website and activities in each of the host ports to raise detrimental effect on the environment through our business awareness of the increasing volume of pollution in the oceans and operations.
Our mission is to adopt and support the following the threat to sea life across the globe.
principles: Our Manager of Maritime Safety Engineering, Chris Wortham, n To provide first class energy and environmental management who retired this year, was awarded an honorary fellowship of the practices World Maritime University WMU.
He is pictured right being n To comply with all relevant global environmental legislation presented with his fellowship by WMU Chancellor and Secretary and regulatory controls General of the IMO, Mr Koji Sekimizu, with WMU President Dr n To identify significant environmental and social impacts and Bjrn Kjerfve centre.
establish objectives and targets for improvement n In our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% of generated waste and constantly to review the opportunity to use recycled products n To actively encourage the conservation of energy, water and natural resources through the increased efficiency and introduction of new and modern technology n To encourage all employees in our main UK site to be proactive in their daily activities by: separating their waste into dry and wet waste receptacles ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled switching off lights, computers, phone chargers and any other electrical items when not in use, and n To reduce business travel and using more site-based technology such as video and audio conferencing.
We continue to monitor our energy consumptions and comply with our social and legal responsibilities in terms of carbon emissions.
We are fully committed to the UK governments CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and during 2012 complied with Education all aspects of the requirements.
We continued our funding of the Inmarsat Chair of Maritime Education and Training at the World Maritime University which In our principal office in London we managed to reduce electrical supports the education of maritime specialists.
We encourage consumption by 162,429kWh, reflecting a 2.1% saving compared internships with schools and universities to provide students with with 2011.
In terms of gas consumption 104,393kWh savings were the opportunity to experience first-hand the engineering and achieved, which was a 3.4% reduction from the previous year.
technical aspects of satellite operations.
During the year, we During 2012 the main UK office effectively emitted 4,548 tonnes also continued our support of the International Space University of CO to the atmosphere, which is a 3% reduction compared 2 by funding two half-scholarships for students on its Masters with the previous year.
Energy efficiency is one of the key considerations when replacing We are a sponsor of the UK National Space Academy, created obsolete and inefficient machinery.
We continue to review new to teach space science subjects to students and their teachers.
technologies and control building operational strategies, which In addition, Inmarsat intends to participate in a Higher includes using energy efficient lights to reduce electricity Apprenticeship in space engineering programme, being consumption.
organised by the National Space Academy.
This is a route for students to enter into a vocational degree-type scheme, designed to promote growth in the sector.
Education Partnerships UK National Space Academy The work our partners undertake with local companies and charities are examples of the wider influence of our services Inmarsat is a sponsor of the National Space Academy, created and were delighted how these can have an impact socially to teach space science subjects to students and their teachers.
Inmarsat plc 35 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
