Business Review Our talented People We believe that the success of IHG doesnt just depend on the brilliance of one brand or one person, but a whole family of preferred Brands, brought to life by talented and passionate People who deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
IHG employed 7,981 people worldwide during the year ended 31 December 2012 whose costs were borne by the Group.
When the Groups entire estate is taken into account including employees working in the franchised and managed hotels over 350,000 people worked globally across all IHGs brands as at 31 December 2012.
Unless otherwise stated, any data in this section relates to the people directly employed by IHG and those who work in managed hotels or part of our joint venture with All Nippon Airways in Japan in total 120,000 people.
Our People strategy is focussed on engaging all those who work in IHG hotels and corporate offices to deliver great performance and Great Hotels Guest Love across all our Brands regardless of the business model.
In this section we explain each of the pillars of our People strategy and how this enables us to meet the fresh challenges of a changing workforce and increased competition, as well as describing our approach to diversity and how we provide a safe and secure environment for our guests and employees.
Our employer brand We share We live our We want We are... We offer... a purpose... winning ways... Room to have Proud To be treated as a great start individuals and Passionate recognised for the Room to grow Collaborative great work we do Room to be involved Do the Aim right thing higher Room for you Work better Show together we care Celebrate difference We give our best performance and delight our guests The four pillars of our People strategy are: Developing a BrandHearted culture Being BrandHearted means changing the way we think, act and developing a BrandHearted culture: behave when it comes to our Brands it means putting them at the making IHG a great place to work: centre of every conversation, every idea and every decision we make.
delivering world-class People Tools to our owners and hotels: and Our Brands offer a distinct promise to our guests, so it is vital that we building a strong leadership team.
make it easy for our owners and General Managers and their teams to keep those brand promises.
In 2012 we launched a new Brand Framework to better define what a great branded guest experience looks like.
We are also transforming the way we deliver our brand standards to hotels, making it easier than ever before for all of our hotels to create a consistent brand experiences.
This work forms part of our ongoing commitment to provide our hotel estate with simple, easy-to-use tools that generate better business performance and brand preference.
Our Programme Office has been leading this work internally.
30 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Ways of working Managers in involving, inspiring and engaging their teams as brand The Programme Office has been instrumental in driving a more ambassadors.
Nearly 1,000 of our hotels have now installed Heart disciplined approach to the way we develop, design and deliver of house.
This year we refreshed our Ways of Working Celebrating service to promote a more coordinated approach to project design and Being BrandHearted is also about celebrating employees, and developed the new IHG Way of Project Management a bespoke recognising achievement is very important to us.
Thats why every set of tools to improve the way we deliver projects to hotels.
This year, through Celebrate Service week, we recognise our colleagues gives us a consistent and more effective approach to projects, and for the great work they do to give our guests an enjoyable stay.
Celebrate Service week, which was instigated by, and run in Heart of house partnership with, the IHG Owners Association, saw more than 4,000 Our Heart of house initiative has been a key project in 2012.
When our hotels participating in 2012.
This has now become an important colleagues feel engaged, they deliver better service to our guests.
driver of employee engagement following this years event we found This is why Heart of house continues to be so influential in helping us 99 per cent of employees at our corporate offices, central embed a BrandHearted culture.
Heart of house is an integral part of reservations offices and managed and owned hotels and 98 per cent our People Tools.
It is unique in the hotel industry transforming the of those working at participating franchised hotels said they felt traditional back of house into the heart of our hotels an inspiring, proud to work for a company that recognises its people in this way.
inviting, place for employees to learn more about whats happening at IHG, their hotel brand, their hotel and in their teams.
Heart of house provides both a shared space for colleagues to communicate and an improved working environment and supports our General Room to be involved Making IHG a great place to work We ask our employees and those colleagues working in our managed Our People play a key role in delivering our brand promises day in, hotels to participate in an employee engagement survey twice a year.
To achieve our Vision, we need to attract the very best 96 per cent of employees took part in our 2012 employee engagement people, harness their passion and equip them with the right skills to survey.
The results were impressive with 94 per cent of respondents give our guests a truly great experience.
Research shows that people saying they are proud to work for IHG which is an all time high and want to be treated as individuals and recognised for the great work 20 per cent higher than industry benchmarks.
In our employer brand we call this Room to be yourself and engagement scores continue to improve year-on-year and we have seen this commitment is brought to life by four key promises: an 18 percentage point increase across the Group in the last five years.
Room to have a great start Highlights of our 2012 employee engagement survey results Over the next few years, to meet our growth targets, we need to find taking the average of the two annual surveys include: an additional 90,000 BrandHearted colleagues.
People that really love our employees are more engaged than ever before with our Brands, can bring them to life though great service delivery.
By 78.6 per cent engagement for 2012 2.8 per cent higher than defining the specific behaviours needed to bring our Brands to life the 2011 engagement average: and incorporating them in all our People Tools, we are able to recruit people with the right attitude for the brand as well as the right 85 per cent say we are living our Winning Ways: and technical skills for the role.
All new recruits attend an orientation we continue to beat external benchmarks according to our programme and have access to a new onboarding portal to ensure survey administrator, engagement scores for high-performing they understand our Winning Ways, Room to be yourself and what companies have remained flat and service companies have had being BrandHearted really means, from the moment they join IHG.
a decrease of 1.5 per cent per year since 2010.
To support our recruitment efforts and build upon our high levels This year, for the first time we launched the employee engagement of employee engagement, we launched the Recommend a friend survey to our franchise estate with 15 per cent of hotels pioneering scheme in 2012 to all franchised, managed and owned and leased its use and a 4.7 percentage point increase in engagement in those hotels and central reservations offices.
This followed the success of hotels between April and October.
the launch of a similar scheme at our corporate offices, which saw 21 per cent of corporate hires coming through employee By listening to our People and responding to their needs we can recommendations a 15 per cent increase from 2011. drive better business results.
This was shown in a study we commissioned to examine the link between employee One of the biggest recruitment challenges we face is how we engagement and hotel performance.
This study found that the leverage the strength of our global brand, while being sensitive to difference in gross operating profit margin between hotels the local markets in which our hotels operate.
In Greater China, with highly engaged people compared with those with lower for example, we have created a new recruitment site in Mandarin and engagement can be as much as seven percentage points.
have launched career pages on social networking platforms such as Weibo and Renren the number 1 social media platform amongst When we compared hotels where engagement had increased, college students in Greater China.
against those where it had not, we found that for every 5 percentage point increase in engagement, there was, on average, 70 cents of As further explained on page 35 as part of our Responsible Business increased RevPAR.
That means that for a 200-bed hotel this practices, the IHG Academy provides local people with the opportunity RevPAR increase could generate an additional $50,000 of revenue to build and develop their skills and improve their employment per annum.
An IHG Academy is a collaboration between IHG hotels or our corporate offices and local education providers and or community organisations and helps us create a pipeline of potential recruits and future talent.
We currently have over 150 IHG Academy programmes in 37 countries around the world.
Our talented People 31 Business Review: Our talented People continued Room to grow Room for you Providing all our colleagues with Room to grow is an essential part We pride ourselves on our ability to recognise great BrandHearted of our culture and is at the heart of how we continue to develop our behaviour internally and in 2012 we launched Bravo!, an online business.
Our approach ensures that we provide learning and peer-to-peer recognition tool that gives our colleagues the means development opportunities to all colleagues, whilst investing to publicly recognise each others work and efforts.
To date more strongly behind our critical roles and core capabilities.
have been sent, proving our People really this, every employee creates a personal development plan with their value the opportunity to be able to give and receive recognition manager, which supports their development and, in turn, drives our from their peers.
One of the most important roles for driving the success of our business is our hotel General Managers.
This is why we are launching our new General Manager training programme, which is a breakthrough programme designed to shift our mindset away from simply creating great hotel managers to developing great Brand managers.
To have preferred Brands, we need the best General Managers in the industry and therefore we have invested heavily in our approach to hiring, training and developing them.
This has been the focus of our shared agenda with the IHG Owners Association and we are proud to have worked with them to develop this programme, which will be rolled-out initially to new Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express General Managers from the first quarter of 2013.
Mid-management and above continue to be supported through We are also strengthening Group performance culture in our IHGs Leaders Lounge, our award-winning online community and corporate offices.
Our annual incentive plan for our senior executives leadership development forum.
The usage of IHGs Leaders Lounge now aligns with our strategic priorities of Brands, People and Delivery, continues to rise, with more than 7,000 visits per month to access as explained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 78, short learning sessions, providing practical tips and insights ensuring alignment with shareholder interests.
designed to be completed in just a few minutes.
Delivering world-class People Tools for our owners Its never easy to find people who can live and breathe our Brands, As well as continuing to drive awareness around our People Tools but its an important job, perhaps the most important job, because we have also worked to make it easier for hotels to access them.
guests dont differentiate between a hotel being franchised, In 2012 we launched Hotel Solutions which is the ultimate toolbox, managed or owned, they just want a fantastic and consistent brand providing hotels with a single gateway to access the full suite of People experience.
By working with the hotel human resources community Tools, as well as other training and guidance tools.
These tools cover we developed a set of award-winning People Tools that not only help across a broad range of hotel operations, housekeeping and hotel increase employee retention, performance and guest satisfaction but safety, as well as Responsible Business practices.
Hotel Solutions also also drive efficiencies and increase revenue for our owners.
encourages collaboration across all of our hotels around the world, Our People Tools are a suite of best practice tools which help our another example of us leveraging our System size for the benefit of our hotels hire, train, involve and recognise the best people for each hotels.
Since its launch, 71 per cent of hotels have been using it, with of our brands.
In 2012, 96 per cent of General Managers using our General Managers saving an estimated three to four hours each month People Tools regularly said they would recommend them to on administrative tasks.
Further, hotels using Hotel Solutions have others.
We believe this is a point of differentiation compared seen improvements in guest satisfaction, which shows that the right to our competitors.
tools, in the right hands, can deliver the right results.
Building a strong leadership team Growing our business sustainably and responsibly requires leaders experiences and access to great managers, mentors and coaches who deliver great results, do the right thing, inspire their people in order to develop the leadership competencies we need to meet and put our Brands at the heart of everything they do.
Support to our leaders also continues to be introduced a more disciplined approach to leadership assessment provided through IHGs Leaders Lounge.
and created our Leadership Framework to make it easier for our By developing internal talent together with the strategic hiring of key People to understand what great leadership looks like, including individuals who bring additional skills, perspectives and experiences, the skills and experiences they need in order to be able to move to the we are building a strong leadership team, capable of driving a high next level in their careers.
Together, these approaches are ensuring performance culture and delivering on our strategic agenda.
that we are best placed to select and develop the best leaders for our Our Board and Executive Committee leadership and governance business and for our Brands.
processes are set out on pages 46 to 80.
Our global suite of leadership programmes helps us develop our leaders and attract some of the worlds best talent to our team.
These programmes combine skills, development, education, 32 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games: Giving our People a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity Being the first hotel company to be trusted to help run the Examples of our People being part of the Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Village was a groundbreaking opportunity for IHG.
It experience include: gave us the chance to show thousands of athletes and a team of we organised a charity fundraising campaign, Race Around 8,000 volunteers, employees, contractors and secondees what the World, which got more than 60,000 colleagues running, world-class service is all about.
The London 2012 Olympic and swimming and cycling and helped raise $300,000 for the IHG Paralympic Games were great for our colleagues too.
Our Shelter in a Storm Programme: Olympic secondees learnt many new skills to take back to their we gave more than 1,400 people the chance to take part in an hotels and offices, and the first intake of talent from the IHG Olympics Masterclass, run by some of the worlds top athletes, from Academy at Newham were able to benefit from local work cycling with Victoria Pendleton to swimming with Ellie Simmonds: experience and hospitality training.
The Olympics has enabled us we received more than 550 entries in our Design a Keycard to inspire our next generation of talent to achieve great things.
competition for our hotels at the Athletes Village: 72 IHG employees were given the opportunity to become Olympic Torchbearers.
They were nominated by colleagues for showing remarkable feats in the environment and community or for having an extraordinary personal story: on 24 July 2012 the Olympic Torch Relay reached our UK Denham Before the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games began, corporate office and 800 colleagues, friends and family were able we were embracing the Olympic spirit across the whole business.
to see the torch first-hand and cheer four IHG colleagues as they Not everybody got to carry the torch or work in the Athletes Village, became official Olympic Torchbearers: and but we tried to provide opportunities for all our People to have the we were proud that 47 of our hotels across the country were given chance to feel part of the experience.
the important task of looking after the Olympic Torch Relay crew helping to make the Relay such a success.
Our Boards commitment to supporting diversity is set out on Celebrating diversity pages 50 and 58.
Currently our Board comprises three women Being a global organisation operating in nearly 100 countries and 27 per cent.
territories around the world, we recognise the importance and benefit of ensuring our workforce fully represents the communities Ensuring health and safety in which we operate and the guests who stay in our hotels.
We value Providing and supporting a safe and secure environment for our our employees as unique individuals, with the different ideas, guests, employees and visitors is paramount, and IHG applies high perspectives and energy they bring.
We have created an inclusive standards of health and safety across the Group.
Our Global Risk culture where people are encouraged to be themselves.
This is seen Management team evaluates policies and procedures, operating a in our Room to be yourself employer brand and drives higher levels range of health and safety and security measures and we require of employee engagement and, as a result, improves business everyone to comply with relevant health and safety legislation.
The Group ensures that we protect the health of our employees Currently, 35 per cent of our middle to senior leadership population at through suitable work-based strategies: minimising the risk of injury our corporate offices are female and we continue to explore ways to from work activity: ensuring that sufficient resources, information increase the diversity of our management team.
In 2012, we launched and systems are in place to address health and safety: and involving a review of diversity and inclusion that will ensure we have the right employees in continuous improvement, reporting and the review of combination of policy and practices to further improve our health and safety matters.
recruitment, retention, development and career progression of minority groups, including a focus on increasing the representation Further information on our approach towards health and safety and of women at all levels of our business.
The Group is also committed security can be found on pages 38 to 44 and on our online Corporate to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without Responsibility Report viewable at www.
com responsibility discrimination and continues to be supportive of the employment of disabled persons.
External recognition We are incredibly proud of the external recognition we receive were named in the top 10 of the Worlds Learning Elite across the globe as an employer of choice.
In 2012 we: recognising the effectiveness of our use of formal training together with coaching and on-the-job learning: featured in The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For: were recognised as one of Indias Best Companies to Work For in 2012: received recognition for our employer brand at the Personnel Today Awards 2012 winning the Award for Employer Branding: were recognised as being one of the 100 Best Human Resource Management Companies in China: and were listed in The Job Crowds The Top Companies For Graduates To Work For in 2012 13.
