GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee Report The Corporate Responsibility Committee takes responsibility for considering the strategy, policies, management, measurement systems and key programmes and projects for Corporate Responsibility across the Group.
Committee membership Key priorities for the Committee in 2013 Appointed to Length of Corporate Responsibility continues to be an area of great importance Meetings Committee tenure to to IHG.
During 2013 the Committee will continue to review Corporate Member Role attended from 31 Dec 2012 Responsibility strategy, objectives and progress particularly with Jennifer Laing Chairman 3 3 Feb 2009 3 yrs 11 mths respect to rolling out key Corporate Responsibility programmes Graham Allan Member 1 1 retired Jun around the world.
2012 n a For further information on our approach to Corporate Responsibility Luke Mayhew Member 3 3 Jul 2011 1 yr 6 mths matters see pages 34 to 37.
Dale Morrison Member 1 1 Nov 2012 2 mths Richard Solomons Member 3 3 Jun 2011 1 yr 7 mths Jennifer Laing Ying Yeh Member 3 3 Aug 2011 1 yr 5 mths Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 18 February 2013 Total meetings held 3 Governance The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
com investors under corporate governance committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
The Committee was in place throughout 2012.
The majority, four out of the five members, of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors as required under its terms of reference.
Responsibilities The Board delegates authority to the Committee for all Corporate Responsibility matters.
The Committees key responsibilities are set out below: to review and advise the Board on Corporate Responsibility objectives and strategy: to review policies and approaches to sustainable development and Corporate Responsibility matters: to review reports on performance and progress against KPIs relating to Corporate Responsibility: to review internal and external audit reports on Corporate Responsibility and monitor progress towards actions: and to review the content of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Key issues discussed in 2012 meetings During 2012, the Committee considered, amongst others, the following matters: the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility: review of the impact of the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme including specific case studies and learnings for the future: review of the key Green Engage, IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme and IHG Academy 2013 objectives and 2012 achievements: review of the impact of the IHG Academy roll-out and its successes to date: further embedding of our Corporate Responsibility policies across the business: receive an update on competitor Corporate Responsibility strategy and execution, and the implications for IHG: and review stakeholder engagement and communications.
Audit Committee Report and Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 57
