Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility CR is a key part of our Responsible Business practices.
We treat it as a strategic business issue and therefore believe CR only makes sense if it aligns to our Vision of becoming one of the great companies in the world by creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
We believe that incorporating societal and environmental factors We have established further governance committees run into our business strategy and operations will play a vital role in the by members of the CR team to oversee globally-aligned long-term viability of our business and the travel and tourism sector.
These include our Global Sustainability Council Whilst tourism plays a large role in the world economy and is an and our IHG Community Strategy Committee, both of which important source of wealth for many countries, our industry faces met during 2012 to discuss improvements to, and expansions increasing pressure to balance its economic performance with its of, our key CR programmes.
Environmental sustainability As a leading global hotel company, we are in a particularly strong We are committed to designing, building and operating more position to help make tourism increasingly responsible.
Thats why, environmentally sustainable hotels, something we believe for IHG, Responsible Business underpins all of our strategic is essential to being a Responsible Business and delivering priorities.
We aim to harness the role hotels play in society in order Great Hotels Guests Love.
Through Green Engage, our online to create shared value for our business, our guests, the environment environmental management platform, we provide our hotel owners and the communities where we operate, whether thats conserving with a roadmap to develop and operate more sustainable hotels.
and protecting resources, helping local people build skills and improve their employability or providing refuge when disaster In 2012: strikes.
CR is an essential element of doing business responsibly.
in our managed and owned estate our three-year target 2010-2012 was to reduce energy per available room by between Our CR ambition is to transform hospitality for more sustainable 6 and 10 per cent: we exceeded our target with a reduction of communities and better lives.
We work to find innovative ways to 11.7 per cent: and build and run hotels that can fulfil our brand promises, tackle the our latest carbon footprint assessment revealed that we achieved environmental and social challenges we face and create shared an absolute reduction in IHGs global carbon footprint in our value for IHG and our stakeholders.
hotels and corporate offices of 76,000 metric tonnes in a year.
We focus our CR activities in two areas that make sense to our Our online Innovation Hotel website helps us to envision what future business and where we believe we can make the most difference hotels could look like and how they might operate.
The site allows the environment and the local community: online visitors to tell us what they think of the latest sustainable Environmental sustainability we drive environmental hotel concepts: www.
com innovation sustainability through our online environmental management platform Green Engage: and Sustainable communities we create local economic opportunity, particularly through the IHG Academy, and we provide shelter when disaster strikes through the IHG Green Engage Shelter in a Storm Programme.
The environmental impact of our hotels is managed through every stage of the hotel lifecycle by Green Engage.
Green Engage tracks All activities are underpinned by the robust policy and management the use of energy, carbon and water and the management of waste in foundations we have worked to build and strengthen since we set up our properties along with the associated costs.
An important feature our CR function in 2006. in Green Engage is Green Solutions over 200 actions a property can implement to reduce its environmental impact.
The programme Our CR governance provides owners with advice on everything from picking a suitable Our Corporate Responsibility Committee, a committee of the site and selecting the correct lighting for the hotel through to Board, was established in 2009 and is chaired by Jennifer Laing, choosing responsible cleaning materials and providing staff training a Non-Executive Director.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee on environmental sustainability.
Green Engage also provides the Report is set out on page 57 and the Committees membership, ability for our properties to answer our corporate client sustainability role, responsibilities and activities in 2012 are set out therein.
questions through its robust reporting feature.
The Committee oversees that we have the right policies, management and measurement systems in place to deliver against Green Engage helps us fulfil our important commitment to doing our strategy.
It met three times in 2012, focussing on the global business responsibly and, in turn, this stops hotels losing money on expansion of the IHG Academy programme, the activation of the IHG energy costs.
Energy is the second biggest cost to our business the Shelter in a Storm Programme, the ongoing roll-out of Green Engage average IHG hotel spends over $500,000 on energy usage each year.
and our CR stakeholder engagement channels such as our online Green Engage can help hotels become up to 25 per cent more energy Corporate Responsibility Report.
efficient, so it makes both environmental and financial sense.
34 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION In 2012 we continued to invest in Green Engage, adding new features, collaboration provides a hospitality certification and work experience such as the carbon calculator, energy and water benchmarks and in IHG hotels and, as part of our contribution to the London 2012 multi-unit reporting.
As at 31 December 2012, 2,219 of our hotels Olympics and Paralympics Games legacy, it supports the were enrolled in Green Engage.
Our user base has since grown to regeneration of East London.
Our aim is to have our entire estate tracking, We currently have over 150 IHG Academy programmes in 37 managing and reporting its environmental impact over time.
countries around the world and our vision is to have as many IHG Green Engage is driving revenue for IHG as well.
Our research hotels as possible participating in an IHG Academy.
Our ability to shows that many frequent travellers prefer hotels which are build skills and raise aspirations across hundreds of communities meaningfully engaged in managing their environmental impact.
continues to drive our commitment to this programme.
We have made it easier for this growing band of customers to book For more information on the IHG Academy visit a Green Engage hotel by introducing an online booking capability www.
com for guests who want to stay at Green Engage hotels.
We think it is important for us to lead by example so we extended our environmental sustainability principles to our corporate office in Denham, UK, which incorporates a range of sustainable design features and uses Green Engage on an ongoing basis.
In addition to internal programme improvements, we have demonstrated leadership through our role in the International Tourism Partnership ITP World Travel and Tourism Council WTTC Working Group seeking to agree a common carbon metric for the industry.
The common methodology was agreed in 2012, a big step forward for our industry.
We were able to quickly build it into Green Engage with our hotels able to start applying it immediately.
Sustainable communities Our scale gives us a real opportunity to improve and transform the lives of local people in the communities where we operate.
Our community strategy, which sets out how we seek to create local economic opportunity, is critical to achieving economic success Celebrating the 150th IHG Academy opening, Beijing, China and delivering Great Hotels Guests Love.
In 2012 we continued to increase our focus on the community, successfully expanding both the IHG Academy programme and the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
To support the expansion of these programmes we work in collaboration with expert partners.
IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme Through the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme, our hotels receive guidance on when and how best to respond when natural or man-made disasters occur.
Our global partnership with CARE allows us to draw IHG Academy on expertise in humanitarian assistance and helps us find appropriate The IHG Academy is a collaboration between individual IHG hotels partners in the area when disaster strikes, directing help to where it is or corporate offices and local education providers and or community needed.
When a disaster occurs, funds from the IHG Shelter Fund can organisations providing local people with the opportunity to develop be allocated to enable our hotels to respond quickly and effectively to skills and improve their employment prospects in one of the worlds support our guests, employees and the local community with financial largest hotel companies.
support, vital supplies and accommodation.
Within a consistent framework, each IHG Academy is tailored to meet The IHG Shelter Fund, a pool of funds from the fundraising efforts of the needs of local communities as well as hotels around the world.
IHG hotels and corporate offices, is a key element of the IHG Shelter All IHG Academy programmes have three things in common: in a Storm Programme, enabling us to respond quickly when disaster they operate together with local community organisations and or strikes, instead of waiting to raise funds after the event.
education providers: In 2012, $545,000 was raised for the IHG Shelter in a Storm they include a work experience placement, giving participants Programme and the fund was put into action to support 10 disasters skills and real experience of working in a hotel: and across six countries, including responding to severe flooding and a they include performance feedback and a recruitment discussion, cyclone in Fiji, Superstorm Sandy on the US East Coast, flooding in giving participants an opportunity to gain real experience of the Manila and the UK, wildfires in Colorado and Hurricane Isaac on the job interview process, thereby improving their chances of finding US Gulf Coast.
On each occasion we assessed the damage to IHG a job in the hotel sector and in many cases, secure a job in one of hotels and the impact on their employees and communities, and IHGs hotels.
allocated funds from the IHG Shelter Fund to help with essential supplies and accommodation.
Participants of an IHG Academy come from all walks of life and range from university graduates through to disadvantaged young For more information on the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme people, reflecting the range of careers, as well as opportunity for or to donate visit www.
com progression, available at IHG.
In February 2012, we launched an IHG Academy in Newham East London, UK.
This award-winning Corporate Responsibility 35 Business Review: Corporate Responsibility continued data privacy and intellectual property.
We work in a coordinated fashion with industry and business advocacy organisations in all regions where we have hotels.
Our systems and CR programmes help us keep ahead of legislative and regulatory requirements.
For example, Green Engage is core to helping hotel owners manage current regulatory performance and prepare for anticipated regulations.
In 2012 we used the programme to comply with the requirements of the UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment, a mandatory carbon emissions reporting and pricing scheme.
These and other complex regulatory matters are overseen by our Global Sustainability Council.
Our carbon strategy for managing our footprint is through Green Engage and we discuss our approach and actions with the IHG Owners Association to ensure our franchisees understand and support our initiatives.
IHG employees take part in the Shelter Sprint to raise funds for the IHG To further drive engagement of our owners, General Managers and Shelter in a Storm Programme their teams, we introduced a suite of web-based tools to help them engage with their elected officials on policy issues of critical Stakeholder engagement importance to the business.
Our stakeholders play a key role in helping us identify and tackle our priorities.
They include guests, corporate clients, our hotel Policies and Code of Ethics owners, local communities, employees, shareholders, suppliers, Responsible Business is at the heart of everything we do.
We academic institutions, non-government organisations, governments encourage all our employees to do the right thing and show we and industry-specific institutions.
care through living our Winning Ways as shown in the diagram on As a member of the International Tourism Partnership ITP and page 30.
The Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the World Travel & Tourism Council WTTC, we work with our consolidates and clarifies expected standards of behaviour and industry peers to share knowledge and resources, and together communicates the ethical values of the Group globally.
It states we address issues that affect the industry as a whole.
clearly that IHGs reputation is built upon the trust and confidence of We engage with our stakeholders through a number of channels, our stakeholders and is fundamental to our operations worldwide.
including forums, meetings, individual interviews, surveys and A confidential disclosure channel also provides employees with a through our websites: means to report any ethical concerns they may have.
The Code of our award-winning online Corporate Responsibility Report, Ethics and Business Conduct is applicable to all employees and is updated regularly, is available at www.
com responsibility: available on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance.
We also have detailed policies on the our IHG Planet CR Facebook page is available at environment, supporting our community, competition, anti-bribery www.
com  and at the end and data privacy, which are regularly communicated via eLearning of 2012 had been liked by over 20,000 fans: and and face-to-face training modules promoting accountability and our internal intranet site is a one-stop-shop resource centre, which transparency.
keeps all of our colleagues up-to-date on our key programmes.
We participate in the ITP working group on human trafficking.
We We also continue to build on our series of animated videos to help also have our own human rights policy and in 2010, we signed up to raise awareness and understanding of our key programmes in a the UN Global Compact aligning our operations and strategies with fun and engaging way.
Recently we created a new video about our the 10 universal principles that include commitments to human economic impacts this reached almost one million people through rights and labour standards.
The videos are also available on YouTube and through our online Corporate Responsibility Report.
External recognition To make sure our hotel General Managers and their teams have the In 2012, we were: latest information on our programmes, we launched standalone websites for the IHG Academy and the IHG Shelter in a Storm awarded the Global Business Travel Association GBTA Programme.
These provide how to guides and other materials Gold Medal Award for Sustainability: for hotels to download and share with their teams.
awarded the Hotel Owners and Franchisees Transatlantic Our engagement with shareholders is set out on page 55. and European League HOFTEL Owner Friendly Innovation Award for Green Engage, an important recognition that Public policy, regulation and legislation Green Engage is of value to our hotel owners: and The travel sector is one of the largest employers in the world and shortlisted for the World Environment Centre Award being a Responsible Business means engaging with decision-makers for Sustainability, making it to the final round with on policies that affect our guests, hotel owners and our other Green Engage commended.
We constantly engage with policymakers in executive and legislative branches around the world in order to advocate issues important to IHG, our owners and our guests.
We particularly concentrate on issues relating to the operating environment for small businesses, 36 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CR priorities, performance and targets The following table outlines IHGs overall CR developments and achievements during 2012 and priorities for 2013.
CR priorities 2012 developments and achievements 2013 priorities Environmental In our managed and owned estate our three-year target Work to ensure all our hotels that are enrolled in Green Engage use the tool for greatest impact to help them sustainability 2010-2012 was to reduce energy per available room by reduce their environmental impacts and operating costs: between 6 and 10 per cent, we exceeded our target with a reduction of 11.7 per cent: continue to work with the IHG Owners Association to further expand the Green Engage programme across our hotels: reduced our carbon footprint in our owned and managed hotels by 19 per cent per occupied room in a year: continue our active engagement with the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative HCMI to further drive the carbon achieved an absolute reduction in our global carbon methodology in the industry: and footprint in our hotels and corporate offices of 76,000 metric tonnes in a year: expand the ability for our guests to locate and book Green Engage hotels.
reached our target to have 50 per cent of our hotels based on January 2012 hotel figures using Green Engage on 14 January 2013, we now have over 2,260 hotels enrolled: and launched a global carbon standard for hotels and added a new carbon calculator in Green Engage with our hotels able to start applying it immediately.
Sustainable Expanded our IHG Academy to 157 programmes an Continue to expand the IHG Academy throughout our increase of over 100 during the 2012 year: estate making sure these programmes deliver positive communities and transformational results for their participants created an IHG Academy online toolkit to help hotels and IHG: and corporate offices on their journey to become an IHG Academy: continue to drive awareness and engagement around the IHG Shelter in Storm Programme ensuring our hotels offered a life skills workshop in conjunction with are prepared for disaster and able to respond quickly and our IHG Academy with Newham College as part of our effectively to help the local community and employees London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games legacy when needed: and commitment: continue to provide ways for our employees in all IHG held 198 fundraising events including a global Race hotels and corporate offices to engage with the IHG Around the World event for the IHG Shelter in a Storm Shelter in a Storm Programme by raising awareness Programme: and funds for the IHG Shelter Fund.
raised $545,000 compared to our target of $150,000 for our IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme enabling us to respond quickly to disasters: the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme supported 10 disasters across six countries: created an IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme online toolkit to share guidance on when and how to respond to a disaster and facilitate fundraising events: and participated in the International Tourism Partnership working group on human trafficking and continued to raise awareness of our human rights policy internally.
Stakeholder Continued to engage with our stakeholders through our Launch a set of externally facing targets across our three refined stakeholder engagement process and channels: core programmes: IHG Academy, Green Engage and the engagement and IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme: public affairs exceeded our IHG Planet CR Facebook page fans target of 6,000-10,000, with over 20,000 fans by the end of 2012: focus on driving awareness of IHGs approach to CR across internal and external stakeholder groups, and launched a video to communicate the results of IHGs continue to share updates of each of our programmes: economic impact study: drive higher engagement in our IHG Planet CR Facebook launched a new ePlatform for government relations page particularly around our three core programmes: for US-based owners and General Managers: and review our Corporate Responsibility Report in light of the successfully joined with industry partners to lobby the new Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines: US Government to reconsider a change to the per diem calculation methodology.
roll out new CR eLearning training and integrate with the new General Managers training module: and engage with a broader cross-section of our owners in public policy.
For more information please visit our Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
com responsibility or join us on our IHG Planet CR Facebook page at www.
