32 iNterServe aNNual repOrt 2012 buSiNeSS review SuStaiNability review SuStaiNability review O O O Ou u u ur r r r H H H He e e ea a a ad d d d O O O OF F F F S S S Su u u uS S S St t t ta a a aiiiiN N N Na a a ab b b biiiil l l liiiit t t ty y y y iiiiS S S S t t t tiiiim m m m H H H Ha a a ay y y yw w w wO O O OO O O Od d d d, , , G G G Gr r r rO O O Ou u u up p p p F F F FiiiiN N N Na a a aN N N NC C C Ce e e e d d d diiiir r r re e e eC C C Ct t t tO O O Or r r r, , , r r r re e e eF F F Fl l l le e e eC C C Ct t t tiiiiN N N NG G G G S S S Su u u uS S S St t t ta a a aiiiiN N N Na a a ab b b biiiil l l liiiit t t ty y y y S S S S p p p pO O O OS S S Siiiit t t tiiiiO O O ON N N N a a a at t t t t t t tH H H He e e e H H H He e e ea a a ar r r rt t t t O O O OF F F F O O O Ou u u ur r r r b b b bu u u uS S S SiiiiN N N Ne e e eS S S SS S S S, , , iiiiN N N Nt t t tr r r riiiiN N N NS S S SiiiiC C C C t t t tO O O O t t t tH H H He e e e F F F FiiiiN N N Na a a aN N N NC C C Ciiiia a a al l l l m m m ma a a aN N N Na a a aG G G Ge e e em m m me e e eN N N Nt t t t, , , r r r re e e ep p p pO O O Or r r rt t t tiiiiN N N NG G G G a a a aN N N Nd d d d F F F Fu u u ut t t tu u u ur r r re e e e O O O OF F F F t t t tH H H He e e e C C C CO O O Om m m mp p p pa a a aN N N Ny y y y.... t t t tiiiim m m m l l l le e e ea a a ad d d dS S S S t t t tH H H He e e e S S S Su u u uS S S St t t ta a a aiiiiN N N Na a a ab b b biiiil l l liiiit t t ty y y y b b b bO O O Oa a a ar r r rd d d d, , , w w w wH H H HiiiiC C C CH H H H O O O Ov v v five e e er r r rS S S Se e e ee e e eS S S S t t t tH H H He e e e S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eG G G Gy y y y a a a aN N N Nd d d d p p p pr r r rO O O OG G G Gr r r re e e eS S S SS S S S O O O OF F F F O O O Ou u u ur r r r S S S Su u u uS S S St t t ta a a aiiiiN N N Na a a ab b b biiiil l l liiiit t t ty y y y p p p pl l l la a a aN N N N.... Sustainability is an integral part of what we do as a company Financial Capital by taking steps to protect and enhance and how we fulfil our commitments to our shareholders, natural, social and knowledge capital, we will improve our customers, employees and the communities in which we live ability to manage financial capital to create financial growth.
To manage risk and increase our opportunities for profitable growth, we recognise the need to put sustainability at the forefront of our decision-making as a business.
During 2012 we have been working to accelerate our activities in this area, bringing renewed impetus to ensure we deliver a far-reaching and effective sustainability strategy.
In order to build and grow our company there is an implicit need to support a sustainable environment, whether natural or social, wherever we operate.
In March 2013 we will launch our new sustainability plan called SustainAbilities which builds on our progress to date, but also accelerates our ability to show increasing leadership in wOrKiNG tO SuppOrt buSiNeSS iNNOvatiON this area.
com sustainabilities for more Allia is a charitable organisation that creates opportunities information.
for people to invest their money for social benefit.
We SustainAbilities is based around the management of four are helping Allia deliver its vision to provide an important capitals: Natural, Social, Knowledge and Financial.
business innovation centre in Cambridge, while sharing their desire to grow businesses that benefit the community Natural Capital the stock of natural resources that enable and the environment.
the earth and everyone on it to exist - from drinking water to breathable air, to sources of energy and raw materials.
We We have worked closely with the charity over two years, have a significant impact, and indeed rely on these resources, funding a planning application and enabling the charity to and we are committed to take action to protect them.
develop and deliver the project.
The unique design, to match the expectations of changing occupiers and the requirements Social Capital this is the stock of social connections, of funders, now has full planning consent, and building has benefits, roles and networks that enable societies to function started.
Through this scheme Allia will create employment and thrive.
This is clearly important to us and employment and business opportunities for the local community and the opportunities, trust, belonging, a sense of place, wellbeing, centre will provide 35,000 sq ft of affordable mixed-office health and education are major areas of focus.
and workshop units and open-plan space for those wanting to Knowledge Capital this is the stock of skills, know-how start up or expand a social or environmental business.
and experience possessed by society.
Here we will develop apprenticeships and graduate training schemes, support our iNGeNuity at wOrK employees and encourage all our stakeholders to contribute to a more sustainable world.
O Ov five er rv viie ew w buSiNeSS review GOverNaNCe FiNaNCial StatemeNtS iNterServe aNNual repOrt 2012 buSiNeSS review SuStaiNability review 33 SustainAbilities sets out our ambitious targets in the following We have used a spread of indicators relevant to each of our five areas: operating companies to monitor environmental performance.
The following core impacts are identified for the Group as 1.
Create places that benefit people a whole: 2.
Deliver public service in the public interest Greenhouse CO gas emissions from our use of energy, 2 3.
Build more skills and more opportunities including electricity, gas, fuel in vehicles, transport and travel 4.
Generate a positive environmental impact Use of resources, including water and timber 5.
Deliver sustainable growth Generation and disposal of waste.
Our new plan includes 15 distinct goals, with clear deliverables against each one, all aimed at supporting We collect data in our wholly-controlled UK operations, these outcomes.
based around our fixed office locations and the operations we support.
This includes office locations associated with While 2012 has been a year of development as we define contracts where we hold lease agreements and pay utility our ongoing sustainability strategy, we also made good bills.
It also includes the fuel we purchase for use in vehicles progress against our existing plans.
In 2013 we will embed to deliver our contracts.
our strategy throughout the organisation, benchmarking through measurement and collating data to ensure we During the year we achieved CEMARS Certified Emissions manage and track progress against our ambitious plans.
Measurement and Reduction Scheme accreditation for our carbon emissions reporting.
This provides certification against What follows is an outline of how we performed in 2012, the standard ISO14064 Part 1&3:2006 and covers our UK set against each of the four capitals that will define emissions for 2011.
2011 data has been restated using the our area of focus going forward.
Natural Capital For 2012 our total greenhouse gas emissions were We aim to provide a positive environmental impact by 37,702 tonnes CO e, marginally increased from 37,555 tonnes 2 moving beyond compliance towards a positive and restorative recorded for 2011.
The emissions can be broken down as contribution to the environment through each of our projects.
76 per cent Scope 1 28,608 tonnes, 15 per cent Scope 2 5,770 tonnes and 9 per cent Scope 3 3,324 tonnes.
In addition to our corporate responsibility to safeguard the The increase in emissions arises from increased energy environment, there are clear business advantages in taking a use in our fixed site locations influenced by an increase lead on environmental issues.
It means we are better placed in the number of properties and the effect of cold weather to help our customers comply with legislation and prepare at the end of the year.
It also enables us to reduce our customers costs and their impact on the environment.
During the year we completed two award-winning schools built to the Passivhaus standard the highest in thermal efficiency.
Interserve was the first company to build a school in the UK to this standard, reflecting our emphasis on innovation in design.
Measure 2012 target 2012 outcome 2013 target Reduce carbon emissions from energy used at UK fixed site locations tonnes CO e per million UK revenue 2 by 2.5% per annum 3.25 tonnes m 3.32 tonnes m 3.24 tonnes m Reduce carbon emissions from fuel used in UK fleet and cars tonnes CO e per million UK revenue by 2.5% per annum 12.45 tonnes m 12.18 tonnes m 11.88 tonnes m 2 Reduce water consumption at UK fixed site locations 3 3 3 3 m water used per million UK revenue by 2% per annum 22.71m m 20.38m m 19.97m m Reduce waste generated at UK fixed site locations kg of waste generated per UK employee by 2% per annum 41.02kg employee 40.74kg employee 39.93kg employee Scope 1: All direct greenhouse gas emissions.
Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by Interserve, electricity-related activities not covered in Scope 2.
34 iNterServe aNNual repOrt 2012 buSiNeSS review SuStaiNability review GOld StaNdard FOr SuStaiNable prOCuremeNt Interserve has been successfully assessed against BS 8903:2010, the worlds first standard for sustainable procurement.
Critical areas such as supporting local supply chains, carbon measurement and energy conservation programmes are set challenging targets within the accreditation, and our Support Services procurement team was awarded the Gold Standard with an overall classification described as approaching cutting edge.
iNGeNuity at wOrK SOCial Capital Charitable giving Our business gives us the opportunity to provide places that In early 2012 a group of senior managers set up the Interserve benefit people and to deliver public service in the public Employee Foundation.
The aim of the Foundation is to improve interest.
This includes making places and delivering services the quality of life for people in the communities where that enhance peoples lives, that they value, that contribute we operate, enlisting the skills, capabilities, resources and to their wellbeing and that are designed and built for the enthusiasm of our employees.
Ambassadors from across the future.
We also provide our employees with the opportunity to business promote the aims of the Foundation and help publicise experience a safe and healthy workplace.
local projects, in particular through the Give a Day of Your Time initiative.
The Foundation was launched with the completion of an The services we provide have a wider social impact whether ambitious project to construct a learning centre in Chennai, India.
they are helping schools and hospitals to operate more efficiently, improving the built environment or working to get Interserves Big Book Drop initiative resulted in the donation of the long-term unemployed back into work.
50,000 books in support of Literacy for Life, a programme aimed at improving the life chances of disadvantaged children in the Our approach to social responsibility provides opportunities territories where we work.
for our employees, focuses on their wellbeing and reflects our involvement in the economies, markets and communities During the year grants were awarded to a range of projects that in which we operate.
We are playing a crucial role in offer support to local communities, such as the Rally Homeless delivering social sustainability, economic regeneration and Project, Nottingham: Swansea Community Boat Project: transformation, by undertaking our work responsibly and by Abergavenny Food Bank, Monmouthshire and the Coolaroo engaging in matters of local, national and global interest.
Literacy Program in Victoria, Australia.
employee consultation We continued to support Help for Heroes, who provide practical support to those wounded in UK military service.
Our three-year We are committed to involving our people in issues affecting partnership with Help for Heroes has currently raised a total them as employees and keep them informed of all relevant of over 289,000.
The total raised in 2012 was over 149,000, factors concerning the Groups performance, strategy, brand, with staff taking part in a wide range of fundraising activities.
A charitable activities and other issues.
We achieve this through team took part in the Yukon River Quest 2012, contributing over formal and informal briefings, our Group publications and our 28,500 to the charity and a further 88,000 was raised at a widely-used intranet.
Employee representatives are consulted charity ball.
regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
Beyond our chosen charity, Help for Heroes, we involve ourselves in other local and national charities with many of our employees Since 2007 we have conducted a biennial, Group-wide opinion supporting causes that are close to them personally or to our survey to help us understand how our employees view working clients.
Charitable activities initiated by employees have raised in Interserve and what improvements we are able to make at some 100,000 during the year for Together for Short Lives, a UK a local or central level.
charity for children with life-threatening conditions, with a further 54,366 donated to smaller charities across the business, including our annual corporate donation to Help for Heroes.
O Ov five er rv viie ew w buSiNeSS review GOverNaNCe FiNaNCial StatemeNtS iNterServe aNNual repOrt 2012 buSiNeSS review SuStaiNability review 35 employee share schemes literacy, numeracy and English language courses, nationally recognised certificates, awards and diplomas and a number We operate two all-employee HMRC-approved share schemes in of other professionally accredited programmes through order to support our Employer of Choice goal and to encourage organisations such as the Royal Institute of Chartered our employees to share in the future of the Group.
In our Surveyors RICS and the BIFM.
Sharesave Scheme employees save small amounts each month Over the course of the year our people received more which can be then used to purchase company shares at a than 10,200 days worth of training - in addition to external discount to the market price.
In our Share Incentive Plan SIP courses and self-directed learning.
employees can purchase company shares through lump-sum or monthly payments which are deducted from their salaries before FiNaNCial Capital income tax and national insurance liabilities are assessed.
We are focussed on delivering sustainable growth, building diversity a profitable business that integrates the true costs into the Diversity in all its forms is fundamental to our business business and delivers sustained value for all.
and we have adopted a Company-wide Diversity Policy to By taking substantial steps towards the protection of natural, promote the principles of inclusion.
We operate in a variety of social and knowledge capital, we will enhance our ability to environments and geographies, in numerous roles, for a wide manage financial capital in ways that will generate a more range of clients.
To do this effectively, we need an equally profitable business through growth.
diverse workforce that understands our customers needs and Economic success is an integral part of sustainable stimulates innovative solutions.
development, enabling the sharing of wealth to the benefit of Our policy supports the fundamental belief that all our society as a whole.
We are aware of our responsibilities in the employees, including potential recruits, are equal regardless locations where we work and are passionate about nurturing of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, age, religion, the local supply chain and creating sustainable employment religious belief or any other reason that might be assumed and training opportunities for local people.
to limit their contribution or potential.
Once someone is Details of the Companys financial performance are well part of the Group they have the chance to contribute and documented elsewhere in this report, but as part of our new develop their career in whatever way their abilities and the sustainability plans we are looking at how best to integrate opportunities we can offer them allow.
our financial and sustainability reporting in the future.
KNOwledGe Capital equal OppOrtuNitieS We understand that by providing more skills and opportunities Interserve is committed to eliminating discrimination among for employees and stakeholders they will have opportunities our workforce in order that we may offer employees an for self-improvement, become more productive and more able environment where there is no unlawful discrimination to make a positive contribution.
and all decisions are based on merit.
This is reflected in our focus on training and development, Our policy is to promote equality and fairness for all in contributing to the education and career development of our our employment.
The Group aims to ensure that no job workforce, as well as through our emphasis on local supply applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment chains and training offered to customers.
Interserve is now or is disadvantaged by imposed conditions or requirements also a major provider in the Welfare to Work Services market, that cannot be shown to be justifiable, on the grounds of helping to train and place into jobs.
gender including sex, marital or civil partner status, gender Career development reassignment : race including ethnic origin, colour, nationality As a broad service provider, a principal differentiator for us and national origin : disability: sexual orientation: religion or is the quality of our people with the skills, knowledge and belief: age: and pregnancy and maternity.
attitudes that they demonstrate every day, making a real We take every step to ensure working environments are difference to our customers needs.
free from harassment and bullying, where all individuals are treated equally and fairly and that selection for employment, This industry-leading approach to learning and development promotion, training or any other benefit will be taken solely was recognised when winning the British Institute of on merit and ability against job-based criteria.
We avoid Facilities Management BIFM award for Learning and Career discrimination in working conditions and terms of employment Development.
and are committed to making reasonable adjustments for Interserve has career development programmes throughout all disabled employees.
We oppose all forms of unlawful and levels of the Group.
We pioneered the Facilities Management unfair discrimination.
NVQ and have well-established apprenticeship programmes, 36 Interserve annual report 2012 BusIness revIeW sustaInaBIlIty revIeW HealtH and safety Our Aim to be Accident Free campaign is adopted by all Group companies and provides a focus on the individual behaviour that is critical to the effective implementation of our well-established safety management systems.
During 2012 we again recorded no fatalities to our employees, contractors or members of the public We have restated our targets to include data from associates and to reflect changes in the reporting criteria under Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences RIDDOR.
Against the revised target of 240, we recorded a reportable Accident Incident Rate AIR of 239.
For the first time we also recorded an AIR for all Lost Time Accidents and have set targets to reduce this at a similar rate.
Waste recyclIng facIlIty Our new 2 million state-of-the-art waste recycling facility in the UK at Aldridge plays a key role in assisting the regions councils, commercial and construction sectors in meeting their landfill reduction targets.
The facility was built by Interserve and processes approximately 250,000 tonnes of waste material per year - returning a range of recycled products to the market.
In addition, enhanced mechanisation over the three-acre site will enable the new plant to recycle a highly impressive 95 per cent of all the material it will process.
IngenuIty at Work o ov five er rv vIIe eW W BusIness revIeW governAnce fInAncIAl stAtements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 BusIness revIeW sustAInABIlIty revIeW 37 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 All labour AIR subsidiaries only 298 310 377 344 429 AIR including associates 239 260 326 Not applicable Not applicable target 240 341 310 386 373 Lost Time Accidents LTA Incident Rate 524 2012 target 2012 outcome 2013 target Injuries to employees, contractors or members Zero Zero Zero fatal injuries to employees, of the public contractors or members of the public Halve our all-labour AIR by 2020 from a 2010 base 240 239 224 LTA AIR 524 All-labour LTA AIR target: 489 Major injury rate 70 65 Maintain fatal and major injury rate below 70 Executive Board directors site visits per annum 12 Total: 74 12 per Executive Board member Average: 12.3 All employees with high occupational risk to their 90% 80% 90% health to be engaged with the health surveillance programme All site managers and supervisors to receive 90% 90% 90% appropriate health and safety training All employees to work within safety management 95% 97% 95% systems registered to Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Services OHSAS 18001 The Accident Incidence Rate AIR is based on the number of injuries meeting the RIDDOR reporting requirements per 100,000 workforce.
ApprentIceshIps Within our Support Services division alone, over the last year 28 young people were given an opportunity to join our business as apprentices in several programmes including business administration, grounds maintenance, electrical and mechanical maintenance and customer service.
Abi pullin pictured was a bar manager before joining Interserve on an Advanced Electro-Technical Maintenance apprenticeship at the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle.
Abi had also completed a plumbing course at college.
I attend college one day a week and the other four days are spent working in the hospital.
My role is based around maintaining the buildings and completing jobs as requested by the NHS.
I have a very supportive team around me.
Interserve is a good company to work for and I would definitely tell anyone interested in starting an Apprenticeship with Interserve to Go for it!
IngenuIty At Work 8504 Interserve AR 2013 Sustainability Summary 8 tp.
indd 37 19 03 2013 14:58 38 IntERSERVE AnnUAl REPORt 2012 BUSInESS REVIEW SUStAInABIlItY REVIEW RECOGNITION OUR COntRIBUtORS tO tHE SOCIAl, ECOnOMIC AnD EnVIROnMEntAl WEllBEInG OF tHE COMMUnItIES AnD SECtORS In WHICH WE OPERAtE ARE REGUlARlY RECOGnISED tHROUGH AWARDS AnD ACCREDItAtIOnS.
O OU UR R M MA AR Rk kE Et tS S AWARDS In 2012 our awards included: CERTIFICATION ACCREDITATION SOCIAl S Sa af fe e C Co on nt tr ra ac ct to or r COnSIDERAtE COnStRUCtORS SCHEME Silver Award: Ripon Flood Alleviation Scheme, north Yorkshire IIS SO O 2 22 20 00 00 0: : 2 20 00 05 5 F Fo oo od d S Sa af fe et ty y M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t S Sy ys st te em m COnSIDERAtE COnStRUCtORS SCHEME IIS SO O 1 14 40 00 01 1: : 2 20 00 04 4 E En nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta all M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t S Sy ys st te em m Silver Award: Shaldon and Ringmore tidal Defence Scheme, Devon IIS SO O 9 90 00 01 1: : 2 20 00 08 8 Q Qu ua alliit ty y M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t S Sy ys st te em m COnSIDERAtE COnStRUCtORS SCHEME Silver Award: P PA AS S9 99 9: : 2 20 00 06 6 IIn nt te eg gr ra at te ed d M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t S Sy ys st te em m John Hunt Primary School, newark O OH HS SA AS S 1 18 80 00 01 1: : 2 20 00 07 7 O Oc cc cu up pa at tiio on na all H He ea allt th h COnSIDERAtE COnStRUCtORS SCHEME a an nd d S Sa af fe et ty y M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t S Sy ys st te em m Bronze Award: leeds West Academy, West Yorkshire C CE EM MA AR RS S C Ce er rt tiifi fie ed d E Em miis ss siio on ns s M Me ea as su ur re em me en nt t COnSIDERAtE COnStRUCtORS SCHEME a an nd d R Re ed du uc ct tiio on n S Sc ch he em me e IIS SO O 1 14 40 06 64 4- -1 1: :2 20 00 06 6 Bronze Award: G Gr re ee en nh ho ou us se e g ga as s e em miis ss siio on ns s Bradgate Mental Health Unit, leicester IIn nv five es st to or rs s iin n P Pe eo op plle e RoSPA AWARDS Presidents Award: IIn nv five es st to or rs s iin n D Diiv five er rs siit ty y Interserve Construction BUIlt In QUAlItY AWARDS C Co on nt tr ra ac ct to or rs s H He ea allt th h a an nd d S Sa af fe et ty y C CH HA AS S Winner: A As ss se es ss sm me en nt t S Sc ch he em me e Healthcare Category, Good Hope Hospital, Sutton Coldfield A Ac ch hiilllle es s U UV VD DB B V five er riif fy y lOCAl AUtHORItY BUIlDInG COntROl lABC C Co on ns st tr ru uc ct tiio on nlliin ne e nORtH EASt AnD YORkSHIRE AWARDS Best Community Building: E EF FQ QM M R Re ec co og gn niis se ed d f fo or r E Ex xc ce elllle en nc ce e 5 5 s st ta ar r East Riding Community Hospital lOCAl AUtHORItY BUIlDInG COntROl lABC nORtH EASt AnD YORkSHIRE AWARDS Best Project: East Riding Community Hospital BIFM Highly Commended Service Provider: MOD single-living accommodation, Devonport O Ov five er rv viie ew w buSiNeSS review GOverNaNCe FiNaNCial StatemeNtS iNterServe aNNual repOrt 2012 buSiNeSS review SUSTAInABILITy REVIEW 39 Natural KNOwledGe CHARTERED InSTITUTE OF BUILDIng CIOB britiSH quality FOuNdatiON Project of the year: 2012 UK Excellence Award: Leicester Passivhaus office interserve Construction SaNCtuary HeritaGe award britiSH quality FOuNdatiON Runner-up: 2012 Achievement Award Leadership: Horse Guards restoration, london interserve Construction rOyal iNStitute OF CHartered SurveyOrS weSt midlaNdS CONStruCtiNG exCelleNCe awardS RICS AWARDS Finalist Project of the year: Highly Commended in Design and Innovation category: Sandwell College, west bromwich Leicester Passivhaus office labC NOrtH eaSt aNd yOrKSHire awardS eaSt midlaNdS prOperty awardS Best Educational Building: Sustainability Project of the year: Vocational Centre, Driffield School and Sixth Form Leicester Passivhaus office College, east yorkshire GreeN apple eNvirONmeNtal awardS BRITISH InSTITUTE OF FACILITIES MAnAgEMEnT BIFM Building and Construction green Practices category : Award for Learning and Career Development Leicester Passivhaus office yOrKSHire aNd Humber CONStruCtiON iCe eaSt OF eNGlaNd merit awardS Best Practice award: Merit Sustainability: Richmond Hill Primary School Passivhaus, Leeds Minsmere Flood Risk Management, Suffolk CONStruCtiON NewS awardS iCe eaSt OF eNGlaNd merit awardS Finalist 10-50 million projects category: Merit Physical Achievement: rowley regis Campus, west bromwich Minsmere Flood Risk Management, Suffolk iCe eaSt OF eNGlaNd merit awardS Merit Team Achievement: Minsmere Flood Risk Management, Suffolk iCe eaSt OF eNGlaNd merit awardS Merit Technical Excellence and Innovation: Minsmere Flood Risk Management, Suffolk Interserve is a member of the FTSE4Good and Kempen Social Responsibility indices.
