28 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Sustainability and CSR Intertek works with some of the worlds largest companies and their suppliers and, by the very nature of the work that Intertek people do every day, we help to minimise the health, social and environmental impact of thousands of products and processes around the world.
Interteks CSR and sustainability expertise helps our customers implement social responsibility programmes to similar standards in every market.
Since 2002, Interteks annual Ethical Sourcing Forum has provided companies with the business intelligence and data they need to make informed decisions on their increasingly offshore, outsourced supply chains.
The forum brings together manufacturers and retailers to explore how they can work together to achieve measurable ethical sourcing and sustainable business practices that are currently transforming global supply chains.
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive officer During 2012 we continued to implement our sustainability strategy throughout Intertek and have increased the scope of our emissions reporting for 2012 to a further five countries.
I am Interteks continued business success pleased to report that our CO emissions per employee reduced 2 by 2% on the previous year across the top 20 countries.
has enabled us to provide employment Interteks continued business success has enabled us to provide to an increasing number of people employment to an increasing number of people around the world around the world each year.
At the date of this report, our employee numbers had grown to over 35,000 people, an increase of 10% compared with the same period last year.
In 2012 we undertook our first ever global employee survey, giving our people the opportunity to inuence the decisions we take about how we run our organisation and provide them with a better working experience.
We are now responding to the ideas raised and feedback given and will conduct a further survey in 2013 to measure progress.
In this section This report describes Interteks sustainability performance for 2012 and highlights some of the work we are doing to help Our business our customers operate more efficiently towards a safer, How we are making a positive contribution to the planet more sustainable future for business, people and the planet.
through our work for clients.
See page 29 Wolfhart Hauser Intertek people Chief Executive officer Our commitment to inclusion and diversity and making Intertek a great place to work.
See page 30 Our environment Taking responsibility for our impact on the environment.
See page 33 Our communities Giving back to the communities touched by our business.
See pages 34-35 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Our business Throughout 2012, Intertek was recognised for its services The verication services we provide to our customers on the with a number of awards.
In January, we received the Continued quality, safety and performance of their products, as well as the Commitment Award at the Cathay Pacic China Business Awards.
social and environmental sustainability of their supply chains, not The award recognises the Companys work in supporting the only strengthen their competitive edge but help to ensure a more development of product quality, sustainability, supply chain sustainable and safe environment for us all.
assurance and trading relationships between Chinese vendors and overseas buyers.
In May, Intertek was presented with the Prmio We help customers such as Carrefour, Dell and Nestl Waters, MasterCana award by ProCana Brasil, for expert services to the to calculate the environmental footprint of their products and biofuels industry.
Intertek operates biofuels laboratories in Santos, packaging and assist them in their internal and external Paranagu, and Salvador.
In September, Incentra, a major sustainable environment communication.
We also help many maritime industry association representing 40 Norwegian public authorities across Europe in dening their waste shipping companies, awarded Intertek Supplier of the Year management policies.
for the fourth year in a row.
We provide design and sourcing advice to encourage and ensure Water is a precious resource that must be preserved.
With environmental and social responsibility along the full product increasing water scarcity and water pollution, the availability life-cycle, from conception through to recycling and disposal.
of this raw material in sufficient quantities, of sufficient quality, Through the skill and commitment of 35,000 Intertek people is threatened.
We help our customers in the water and related worldwide, many of whom are world experts in their eld, industries with a range of services that span the entire water life we initiate, improve and promote industry and sector cycle.
We conduct environmental impact assessment and regulatory frameworks.
modelling studies for desalination plants to provide vital drinking Our Workplace Conditions Assessment WCA programme water, assess reservoir quality and assess the impact of treated, enables companies and facilities to improve workplace conditions discharged wastewater.
efficiently and in accordance with widely accepted industry In November, Intertek was presented with the Positive standards and best practices.
The WCA standard is aligned Environmental Impact Award at the Kelda Excellence Awards with the Global Social Compliance Programme GSCP, which 2012.
Intertek is working with Yorkshire Water part of the in turn is endorsed by the worlds largest retail association.
Kelda Group and its partners to address the requirements of The programme is supported by a web-based platform that the European Bathing Water Directive, the objective of which automates and streamlines the audit process, increasing is to protect public health through monitoring the quality of sea efficiencies for all supply chain partners.
We have also conducted a study Intertek manages the McDonalds Supplier Workplace on behalf of Guernsey Water for their waste water disposal Accountability Programme which focuses on workplace upgrades, helping them to maintain their high quality, blue conditions within their supply chain.
Our global team works ag bathing waters.
with suppliers before and after the audit to help them meet Also in November, Intertek was chosen from among leading rigorous social compliance standards.
FTSE 100 businesses to receive the prestigious Coutts FTSE 100 Through our highly experienced process safety professionals, Business of the Year title at the UK National Business Awards.
Intertek provides a full range of Process Safety Management Intertek was described by the judges as having exceptional services.
In 2012, following a detailed audit of our Health, Safety, leadership, customer focus, staff engagement and innovation.
Security and Environmental HSSE programme, Intertek was approved for work with a global oil client to help ensure the safety and well-being of its employees and facilities and minimise its impact on the environment.
In Germany, our Asset Integrity Management AIM Services undertook a risk-based inspection of a chemical processing plant acquired by a major client.
Not only did the work result in reduced plant downtime costs but it further supported the clients commitment to the health and safety of its people and the environment.
Intertek is a leading global provider of REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Aston Swift, Intertek VP Investor Relations, accepts the Coutts EC1907 2006 services, helping manufacturers, importers and FTSE 100 Business of the Year award from Michael Morley, users of chemicals to comply with the European Unions complex Coutts CEO and Sky News business presenter, Jeff Randall.
Intertek has recently added granulometry to its suite of physico-chemical property tests.
This measures particle size distribution to assess the possible health effects resulting from inhalation of airborne particles.
30 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Sustainability and CSR continued Stewardship and governance Intertek people The Board of Directors has oversight and responsibility for the We believe that everyone should have an equal opportunity of Groups strategy, performance and risk management see pages employment, fair reward and career advancement on the basis 39 to 40.
Intertek is committed to building a sustainable business of ability, performance, necessary qualications and conduct.
and recognises that a diverse range of experiences and skill sets We recognise and harness the value that individuals of different underpin the effectiveness and support the robustness of the backgrounds and capabilities bring to our business.
Our diverse role and activities of the Board see pages 40 to 42.
As at workforce helps us to understand, communicate and trade with 31 December 2012, the gender mix of the Board of Directors was our vast client base through their understanding of local issues 22% female and 78% male and for the senior leadership group and cultures.
285 people at the end of 2012, 19% female and 81% male.
To read more about our Board Diversity Policy see page 50.
Interteks employment policies and practices operate within a framework which reects a culture of merit where decisions Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through policy are based on the individuals ability to perform in relation to the distribution and awareness.
Our operations and support functions needs of the business.
These policies complement and conform are responsible for the identication and evaluation of significant to local and national laws, regulations and codes of practice.
risks applicable to that area of the business, together with the We act to apply all employment policies and practices, including design and operation of suitable internal controls see pages recruitment, promotion, reward, working conditions and 43 to 49.
Strategies in different areas of the globe reect the performance management, in a way that is informed, fair nuances of marketplaces, employees interests and societal and objective.
Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy acts to eliminate concerns.
The Board has overall accountability for Interteks discrimination so that all our employees are treated fairly and sustainability and CSR, with Group-wide strategy and feel respected and included in our workplaces.
implementation being the responsibility of the Group Vice President Human Resources.
Intertek considers the training and development of our employees essential to their personal development and for the continuing success of the business.
It enables people to grow with the organisation by learning new skills and knowledge and enhances the services we offer to our customers.
During the year, we upgraded and extended our online training programmes, giving employees access to more than 100 courses, webinars and instructor led training.
We also introduced the Intertek Executive Academy to support and develop Interteks next generation of global leaders.
Our first Group-wide employee satisfaction survey was undertaken in 2012, providing us with a benchmark for measuring future changes in satisfaction.
62% of employees surveyed responded, with results indicating that we are performing well in some areas but need to work on others.
These were: Intertek business managers across Malaysia join together Organisation Direction.
We will be launching a communications in a leadership and management training programme to exercise throughout 2013 to help employees understand better strengthen working relationships in the region.
Interteks future strategy and how they t within it.
We will continue to improve our data collection in individual country reporting and clarify our policies in this area to employees.
We are taking steps to ensure our performance appraisal processes are more robust in all countries where we operate and ensure that reward and development are aligned with performance.
We will be conducting another survey in 2013 to measure progress.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Professional conduct Our integrity is at the heart of our business.
One of Interteks Male : Female Ratio by regions primary business objectives is to ensure compliance with local, national and international laws and the accuracy and validity of Americas 7,417 reports and certicates that it provides to customers.
We have an induction programme for new employees which includes training 5,316 on the Intertek Compliance Code.
Compliance training is available on our Group intranet in multiple languages.
The objective of this 2,101 code is to demonstrate how we approach compliance within our Asia 17,767 organisation to assure ethical behaviour and the integrity of our services.
We also have a summary Code of Ethics, which 10,364 employees are asked to sign as part of their terms of employment 7,403 with the Company, conrming acceptance of the high standards expected of them in all business dealings.
EMEA 9,698 The Code of Ethics is supported by regular in-service training, 6,639 advice on ethical issues and an internally publicised hotline, Male allowing condential reporting of concerns regarding non- 3,059 Female compliance.
Intertek has a strict policy of Zero Tolerance regarding breaches of compliance policy.
At 31 December 2012 we employed 34,882 people, an increase of 10% over the prior year.
During 2012 we received 17 reports of non-compliance which proved to be substantiated claims requiring remedial action.
We continue to monitor these gures each year.
Our Audit and Risk Total workforce Committee regularly reviews the outcomes from the hotline and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
36% 64% Male Female Interteks gender diversity is reective of the general industries and qualication proles of employment in our operating countries and business lines.
Revenue and headcount 2,054 2012 34,882 1,749 2011 31,712 1,374 2010 Safety is our priority 27,044 Intertek employees in Singapore take part in a quiz during 1,237 2009 25,183 their safety awareness day.
Headcount 1,004 2008 Revenue m 23,841 Total number of Intertek employees over the last five years in relation to revenue.
32 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Sustainability and CSR continued Health and safety Intertek considers the health, safety and welfare of its employees, clients and third parties connected with its business to be of paramount importance.
We aim to provide a safe working environment and ensure that our employees have the information and resources to perform their duties safely.
We are committed to maintaining high standards and complying with relevant local legislation and guidelines in any area in which we operate.
We continually seek to minimise risk to our employees, clients and others who may be affected by our operations and our procedures are regularly monitored by our compliance team to ensure that they are being properly applied in practice.
As promised in our 2011 Sustainability and CSR report, we have increased our measurement of health and safety incidents across the Group.
Our health and safety reporting now includes injuries requiring medical treatment and injuries resulting in lost working time as an indicator of our activities.
We are very saddened to report one employee fatality during 2012.
This occurred whilst All Intertek employees are fully trained in safety practices and the employee was working on a clients site.
procedures and are provided with appropriate protective clothing and equipment.
2012 2011 Occupational fatalities 1 3 Lost time injuries rate 0.43 Medical treatment injuries rate 0.38 Rates refer to the number of lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries occurring per 200,000 hours worked.
The health and safety of our people and activities is the responsibility of line management and employees themselves.
All incidents are recorded and reported to the designated Country Health and Safety Representative who in turn reports through to the respective Country Line Management and Intertek Group.
This enables us to take targeted action in reducing health and safety risks to our employees, clients and others.
During the year we introduced a number of travel safety awareness initiatives throughout the Group, such as vehicle safety checks and personal safety advice programmes inside and outside Intertek workplaces.
We intend to extend these initiatives further during 2013.
We are committed to the continuous review and improvement of our health and safety performance and our aim is to achieve zero accidents.
In 2013, we will improve the reach and quality of our health and safety reporting.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Our environment Many Intertek sites use renewable energy sources such as photo The nature of the work that Intertek does for its clients has a voltaic technology and wind turbines.
In 2012, through new plant direct benefit in reducing harm to the environment and tackling investments, Intertek is incorporating construction techniques climate change.
In our own operations, we are committed to that reduce energy consumption.
For example, our new site in minimising our impact on the environment through reducing Thorign-Fouillard, near Rennes, France, has been constructed to 2 energy consumption at our sites, utilising renewable energy use on average just 50 kWh m per year.
This is possible through sources, implementing green waste management practices, the design, construction and installation of numerous energy minimising travel, undertaking carbon offsetting and operating efficient technologies that regulate air and water temperatures.
Our Corporate Environmental At existing sites, initiatives are in place to reduce energy Policy is implemented by country managers at a national level in consumption through switching off lights and electronic compliance with local guidelines and regulations.
Communication appliances when not in use, installing occupancy sensing lighting with Intertek employees is also an important element for in rooms and introducing smart metering to monitor energy implementing our Environmental Policy.
usage, identifying where reductions can be made.
Using 2011 as our base year, in 2012 we have continued to A number of Intertek sites have environmental management monitor and record our emissions and energy consumption based systems in place that are ISO 14001 accredited.
These monitor on the 20 largest Intertek countries by headcount and we have areas such as waste management and energy consumption, added a further five countries to increase the coverage of our enabling us to control and continuously improve our monitoring and recording as a part of Interteks commitment environmental performance and reduce costs.
This represents approximately 85% Intertek aims to manage its waste responsibly, recycling paper of Interteks total employee population and 84% of revenue.
and cardboard and, where possible, electronic appliances.
Water In 2012, electricity consumption was reported to be 190,849 treatment procedures are in place in our laboratories that use MWh 6.44 MWh per employee and gas consumption was local water supplies to test samples, ensuring they are free of reported to be 56,064 MWh 1.89 MWh per employee.
contaminants before being released back into the local supply.
The levels of greenhouse gas GHG emissions were calculated Intertek has become the first certication body to offer climate using the guidelines of the GHG protocol.
The calculated balanced audits in Sweden.
We do this by calculating the amount emissions include: of carbon emissions produced from the travel undertaken through our auditing work and investing the equivalent monetary t Scope 1 emissions Direct GHG emissions which are a result amount back into renewable energy programmes for countries of our testing and inspection services for clients as well as our with a high dependency on fossil fuels.
The carbon footprint of business operations that occur at sources owned or controlled this years annual report has also been offset in collaboration with by Intertek: the Carbon Neutral Company and through achieving their Gold t Scope 2 emissions Indirect GHG emissions that occur Standard, we will be contributing funds to the Basa Magogo from the generation of purchased electricity, heat or steam project in South Africa.
consumed at sources owned or controlled by Intertek as a result of our business operations or our testing and inspection All Intertek employees are made aware of our environmental services for clients.
green initiatives and guidelines, as well as their responsibilities towards the environment as an employee of Intertek.
CO emissions for top 20 and top 25 Intertek countries 2 by headcount: 2012 2011 Emission tonnes CO2e Top 25 Top 20 Top 20 Scope 1 11,529 10,903 9,399 Scope 2 116,542 112,928 108,169 Total 128,071 123,831 117,568 Per employee 4.32 4.51 4.62 CO e Carbon dioxide equivalent 2 In relation to our scope 3 GHG emissions indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by Intertek but which relate to our activities, we are committed to reducing Interteks Sustainability and CSR report was developed with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3.1 guidelines, which provide a recommended our travel emissions via third parties.
We have continued where framework and indicators for reporting.
A table outlining the GRI standard possible, to minimise business mileage by increasing the use disclosures is provided at the end of this document.
All data used for performance of video and web technology for meetings.
indicators is representative of the Group, unless stated otherwise.
34 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Sustainability and CSR continued Intertek encourages and supports its employees local community engagements across the world.
Here are some examples of the good work undertaken during 2012.
EMEA UK Employees: c. 2,100 Intertek scientists supported local schools through demonstrating how the science skills and knowledge students learn at school can lead to varied and fascinating careers.
South Africa UK Employees: c. 475 Intertek donated to local charities and employees USA participated in volunteering to support disadvantaged children and adults.
Americas USA Employees: c. 4,500 Employees participated in National Women Build Week as a part of Habitat for Humanitys goal to eliminate housing poverty.
Intertek donated audit and certication services Argentina to Sign Fracture, helping assure the quality of orthopaedic implants in the developing world.
Argentina Employees: c. 125 Intertek provided support to an association helping blind and deaf people.
Employees also helped disabled children through organising stimulating activities.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Asia China Employees: c. 8,000 Intertek and its employees donated to the Free Lunch Fund, which provides food to over 30,000 children in less privileged areas of China.
Hong Kong Employees: c. 1,500 Intertek was presented with the Caring Company award by the Hong Kong Council of Social Services in recognition of its participation in initiatives such as volunteering, mentoring and partnership that build a strong caring community.
Philippines Employees: c. 500 Intertek employees planted 75 Kupang trees at La Misa Watershed.
The 2,700-hectare eco-park houses the last forest in Manila and is built around the La Mesa Dam, which provides drinking water for the whole city.
India Employees: c. 1,700 Intertek helped prepare students for the world of work through organising competitions and events at China colleges, universities and a leading business school.
H Ho Ho ong ng Kong In In Ind d diiia a a Australia Philippines Employees: c. 900 Employees participated in Movember to raise awareness about cancer and to help fund prostate cancer research and associated charities.
