Corporate Responsibility Our approach to sustainability Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of economic success, environmental stewardship, diversity and social responsibility.
We believe thatby acting as a responsible global citizen, we will not only help minimise business risk but also enhance our reputation as a business partner.
CO2 emissions tonnes This year, having engaged with several Introduction and summary  locations hundred of our team members, we As Chief Executive, I am pleased to present refreshed our Invensys Values in order a summary of our approach to corporate to make them more relevant and 2012 60,186 responsibility, governance and the progress understandable.
We continue to invest 2011 66,003 we have made in the year.
Corporate in the development of all our people by responsibility, also referred to as 2010 64,587 increasing the use of our iGrow learning sustainability, is a guiding principle that management system and by launching 2009 71,512 isintrinsic to our value proposition and a new senior leadership development operations and it influences the way we programme Leading Execution.
We interact with our customers, communities, improved our organisation effectiveness employees and shareholders.
by placing greater accountability upon 9% the business divisions, making some key Our commitment to reduce the changes in our leadership teams and environmental footprint of our operations CO2 emissions within our manufacturing aligning incentives more clearly and and to provide a safe workplace remain locations reduced by 9% in the year, directly with the areas of direct high priorities.
This past year, we exceeded a reduction of 5% on a same site basis responsibility.
our 2% environmental key performance indicator KPI reduction targets at our Energy consumption MWh Our Sustainability Report 2012, which manufacturing sites for energy use, carbon  locations will be available for download from emissions and water use, but missed our ourwebsite, provides further details reduction targets for waste generation.
2012 148,804 ofour achievements and developments Additionally, we have maintained our in theyear.
2011 162,426 leadership position in safety performance with injury illness incident frequency 2010 152,135 rates that reflect our effective 2009 175,353 management systems.
In the UK, Invensys was again listed on the FTSE4Good Index Series, which identifies companies that meet recognised 8% standards of corporate responsibility.
For the third consecutive year, Invensys Energy consumption within our manufacturing was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability locations reduced by 8% inthe year, Indexes DJSI in recognition of our a reduction of 3% on a same site basis economic, environmental and social performance.
Invensys renewed its Total Recordable Case Incident Rate participation in the United Nations Global Compact UNGC and we again reported 2012 0.18 our greenhouse gas emissions to the 2011 0.18 Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
Lastly, Invensys has been recertified under the 2010 0.21 Carbon Trust Standard by achieving 2009 0.31 reductions in carbon emissions at our UK operations over the past two years.
nil% We maintained our Total Recordable Case Incident Rate TRCIR at 0.18 this year: over the past four years, our TRCIR has fallen by 42% 32 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Environmental KPIs % change on 1 Year ended 31 March Unit 2012 2011 same site basis % total change Energy use 2 manufacturing MWh 148,804 162,426 3 8 3 MWh 54,340 43,658 7 24 non-manufacturing CO2 emissions 2 manufacturing tonnes 60,186 66,003 5 9 3 non-manufacturing tonnes 26,654 21,569 8 24 global fleet tonnes 12,640 12,502 n a 1 business airline travel tonnes 23,937 24,530 n a 2 2 Water consumed cubic metres 323,820 366,602 8 12 2, 4 Waste generated non-hazardous tonnes 6,805 6,738 4 1 2, 4 Waste generated hazardous tonnes 1,234 1,196 3 3 1 Measured as the percentage change from a 2011 adjusted base, at the same 34 manufacturing sites and 94 non-manufacturing sites in operation in 2011 and 2012.
2 Based on 39 manufacturing sites in 2011 and 34 manufacturing sites in 2012.
3 Based on 98 non-manufacturing sites in 2011 and 116 non-manufacturing sites in 2012.
4 2011 waste data restated following the enhancement of our data collection and validation processes.
Further details regarding environmental performance can be found on our website.
All data is independently verified, consistent with the Basis of Reporting and Verification and Assurance protocols outlined in our Sustainability Report 2012.
Our strategy and approach to The principal risks which are specific to and At our non-manufacturing sites, our may impact our business are set out in the energyand CO2 emissions increased by corporate responsibility Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 7%and 8% respectively on a same site Our strategy encompasses the following 37 to 44.
In addition to these risks, there are basis.
These increases were due to the key elements: other  risks associated expansion of several large operations.
with our overall business and our business Environmental: reducing the We continue to encourage our site and divisions which are not considered to be as environmental footprint of our regional operations to seek external significant as these key risks, and are operations, mitigating environmental management system certification, and therefore not discussed in this report.
impact, designing our products and we have eight operations certified to the services responsibly, enhancing the ISO 14001 environmental management sustainability performance of our Environment: reducing our system standard.
suppliers and delivering offerings environmental footprint The Board continues to be briefed on that improve the efficiencies of Environmental performance Group environmental performance and our customers: For the past year, we set a 2% absolute receives regular reports on KPI reduction Social: improving the well-being reduction target at our manufacturing progress and any violations or of our employees and communities, locations for our environmental KPIs, which environmental releases that occur.
In the maintaining a safe and healthy include energy use, CO2 emissions, water past year, there were no environmental workplace, attracting and retaining the use, non-hazardous waste and hazardous releases or fines related to environmental best employees, and investing in the waste generation.
In the US, one minor notice of communities in which we operate: and emissions within our manufacturing violation was received for failing to update Governance: ensuring the highest locations on a same site basis decreased by agroundwater monitoring plan at a surplus standards of ethical and honest 3% and 5% respectively, as a result of the property.
behaviour in everything we do.
execution of KPI efficiency projects across Invensys also completed all requirements Building a successful and sustainable all divisions.
Similarly, on a same site basis, under a Civil Sanctions enforcement business requires strong values, strong water consumption decreased by 8%, agreement entered into with the UK governance and internal communication.
non-hazardous waste generation increased Environment Agency related to a selfInvensys corporate responsibility strategy by 4% and hazardous waste generation reported non-compliance finding in is driven by myself, as Chief Executive, and increased by 3%.
For the current year, we the prior year under the UKs Producer implemented by the Group Leadership have again set a 2% absolute reduction Responsibility Packaging Waste Team, where key members with the target for each of the KPIs.
necessary expertise ensure that aspects ofcorporate responsibility are embedded throughout the Group.
Further detail on governance is set out in the relevant sections that follow including discussion ontargets and performance regarding ourKPIs.
Our approach to corporate governance is set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 48 to 59.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 33 Corporate Responsibility continued government officials, we received a Alignment with the Invensys Values is Social: our people and safety-related citation at a location in considered integral to the performance of our communities Brazilrelated to the lack of ergonomic our employees and has been supported equipment and an order to control noise with personal messages from Group The health and safety of our employees levels affecting neighbouring properties.
Leadership Team members, workshops remains the highest priority.
We also received safety-related citations that are designed to be built into team atlocations in China related to lack of meetings and with new recognition Health and safety in the workplace personal protective equipment use, arrangements.
The key messages of the We are pleased to report that we have required risk assessments and required Invensys brand and its values have been maintained our world-class health and emergency planning and fire protection clarified and made relevant to current safety performance, as reflected in our protocols.
Corrective actions are being andpotential Invensys employees through injury illness incident frequency rates.
taken and no further notices or fines have an employer branding initiative.
This is From April 2011 to the end of March 2012, been received.
intended to retain and attract highly our TRCIR remained constant at 0.18, capable and ambitious people to Invensys whileour Lost Workday Case Incident Rate We continue to encourage our divisions who are drawn to a high-performance 1 LWCIR fell slightly from 0.06 to 0.05. and employees to engage with good workculture.
Overthe past four years, our TRCIR has causes to build relationships in the fallen 42% and our LWCIR has fallen 67%.
community and enhance workplace Diversity and inclusion in the workforce Our Safety and Sustainability Awareness morale and cohesiveness.
Invensys seeks to recruit the best individual Metric SSAM is the model we use to drive for every position regardless of gender, and measure several leading activities Community and charitable investment ethnic or national origin, religion, sexual atanoperational level.
The SSAM, which Our businesses provide a variety of orientation or any personal characteristic ismeasured and reported monthly, programmes including Invensys Involved including disability, not relevant to their work.
includes on-time closure of corrective which encompasses sponsorship of Invensys fosters an inclusive culture where actions, near misses, completion of safety activities, use of company resources and anyone with the skills and abilities to training, safety tours inspections, and the paid volunteer time to allow our employees perform is treated fairly.
We embrace the implementation of priority programmes to participate actively in community events.
diversity of our employees and the greater across the business and operations.
We used the opportunity afforded by the effectiveness a diverse workforce allows relationship with one of our partners to We grant recognition awards to those usto offer our customers.
We continue to highlight our employees involvement locations and business operations that respect and support the principles of the incommunity activity.
This gave us the demonstrate consistently strong safety European Convention on Human Rights chance to nominate one of our people to performance.
As of 31 March 2012, and the UNGC by ensuring we comply carry the Olympic torch.
Our torch bearer 25locations had reached the safety withthe labour laws of the countries in was selected from our employees who milestone of one million hours or more which weoperate and by creating an make an exceptional contribution to worked without a recordable incident.
inclusive and respectful culture for our charities or their communities.
We continue to support external Information on our levels of charitable management certifications and four Invensys is committed to equal opportunities contribution is set out in the Directors operations are certified to the and supportive of the recommendations Report on page 77.
Occupational Health and Safety ofLord Davies and the Financial Reporting Assessment Series OHSAS 18001 Council regarding diversity.
This is We strive to make Invensys a place where safetymanagement system standard.
reflected in the wide range of international high-performing people choose to be, backgrounds and skills of our directors, As Chief Executive, I review health and where they can enhance their lives and aswell as the appointment of two female safety performance data, including any careers and are motivated to perform at directors to the Board in 2011.
We also violations or major incidents, on a monthly their best.
recognise the importance of diversity basis and present this to the Board.
In below the Board level and have launched a addition, site leaders and management Invensys Values renewed diversity strategy with Board-level teams review each recordable incident This year we have refreshed our Invensys sponsorship and a broader range of tofully understand the root causes of Values in order to ensure they remain diversity initiatives being launched over accidents and ensure adequate corrective relevant, understandable and reflect thecoming year.
Additionally, the Invensys actions are implemented.
We have Womens Exchange is an established retained: Innovation, Agility and Integrity We are pleased to report that there were resource group within Invensys Operations and replaced Courage and Meritocracy no major incidents or work-related fatalities Management that provides support, with Performance.
These changes during the year.
During inspections by education and networking opportunities resultedfrom an extensive series of surveys within Invensys and with our customers.
and focus groups involving employees across Invensys.
1 The injury illness frequency rate that results in lost time inthe workplace per 100 employees per annum.
Further details regarding health and safety performance can be found on our website.
34 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Supporting our community.
Invensys Taking responsibility for the future.
Invensys Controls, Mexico, introduced A Toy InvensysRail, UK, graduate engineers Operations Management, US, engaged ASmile programme.
Over 450 toys were helped local students to explore the world invarious clean-up and repair projects collected for local children.
following a devastating autumn snow storm.
Communication and engagement Aligning our people with the Groups to be Rising Talent.
Each of these with employee representatives goals and objectives employees has an individual development and employees During the year we use our goal deployment plan, completion of which is tracked and Regular and open communication is vital and performance management tools reported on and is actively supported to tomaintaining engaged teams and andprocesses to helpour employees achieve their potential through quarterly Invensys utilises many media including understand the organisational goals and talent reviews with our Group Leadership regular updates from myself, an Invensysobjectives of Invensys and align them with Team.
We also have a range of divisionor wide intranet, global All Hands calls and their own.
Line managers are required to function-based talent development local communications networks, including hold annual performance reviews with all programmes including our Programme site-level briefings, smaller face-to-face employees who report to them, where for Action Learning and Mentoring PALM meetings and employee newsletters.
theycan discuss their performance, set in Invensys Operations Management and personal objectives for the coming year Functional Expert to Business Partner Invensys has established the use of and create personal development plans.
across our finance and legal functions.
blogging through initiatives such as Approximately 11,000 managerial, iShare and is increasingly using social Last year we launched a new set of Invensys professional and technical employees are networking technologies to facilitate fast competencies following extensive external participating in our online performance and open communication between benchmarking and internal research management processes with goals for employees and to realise the performance drawing on inputs from over 200 of our 2012 13 on our integrated system.
advantages of sharing knowledge and own high-performing leaders.
These new Otheremployees, such as those in bestpractices across our divisions.
competencies have been embedded in manufacturing, are participating in local ourperformance management system We also recognise our obligation and the performance management processes.
andform the basis for the assessment benefits arising from consulting through ofour leadership and our top talent.
more formal channels such as the Invensys Developing our leadership and European Employees Forum IEEF, which our talent Investing in our leadership and promotes dialogue between elected We continue to focus on growing our delivery capability employee representatives and senior capability and enabling internal career Our Learning and Development Centre management.
The annual meeting moves through our Organisational of Expertise CoE has become wellbetween IEEF representatives and senior Capability Review OCR process.
This established and, utilising seven languages, management has been running for 13 years.
process takes place across Invensys and has this year delivered over 82,000 hours over the past year at a corporate level has ofonline training.
Whilst nearly 450 senior led to the creation of robust succession managers have participated in our new plans for 57 senior leadership roles.
OCR programmes Leading Leaders and has also enabled the identification of key Leading Execution, the CoE has focused talent across the Group with 37 High increasingly on core Invensys capabilities Potential and High Professionals in our with the delivery of our new Project leadership population and 35 considered Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 35 Corporate Responsibility continued Management Development Curriculum The Board is given regular updates on For the coming year, our priorities centre containing over 60 learning modules.
compliance issues by the Chief Legal on building on the work we have achieved Thisyear, more than 500 employees Officer and Company Secretary.
We will focus on working with our havecompleted over 7,000 hours of online Executive and Group Human Resources businesses to further accentuate the and instructor-led project management Director receive regular briefings from positive environmental benefits that many training.
We continue to focus on the theChief Legal Officer and Company of our products and services help deliver development of our talent through Secretary where any concerns can be in the marketplace.
We will look to further assessing the capability of our project raised.
Legal and ethical compliance is reduce our environmental footprint management, sales and engineering recognised as a priority for Invensys.
through improvements in our KPI reduction professionals and to date we have assessed programme as noted on page 33 our The Code of Conduct is available on the the competence and development needs reduction target is 2%.
Employee safety, Invensys website and can be read by any of over 4,000 ofour people.
whether in the workplace or at offsite customer, shareholder or member of the locations, will continue to be a major public.
Invensys has adopted a Supplier Employee engagement priority and therefore we will look for Code of Conduct based on our Code of As previously reported, we conducted an additional ways to keep our employees Conduct and is having major suppliers Invensys-wide Employee Engagement safe and continually improve our safety agree to the same or have in place a similar Survey in November 2010 which achieved a record.
We will also continue to emphasise code of conduct of their own as a response rate of 83%, up from 78% in 2008. legal compliance across the organisation.
condition for doing business with us.
We were pleased to see our employee In terms of our people, we intend to engagement levels compare positively with The Code of Conduct is supported by continue investing in improving employee our global external benchmarks.
Action periodic training for all employees and the engagement across the business and will plans were developed and implemented to Board.
All new employees must complete conduct an Employee Engagement Survey build on the feedback and a further survey Code of Conduct training within the first in November 2012, followed by detailed during 2012 will assesswhether we have month of employment.
As part of our effort action planning and change initiatives.
been successful inachieving further to promote the Code of Conduct and our Ensuring that we attract and develop the improved results in levels of engagement.
Helpline, Invensys has produced a range diverse talents available to us, both within of supporting materials including Helpline and outside Invensys, will also be a priority posters, abridged versions of the Code of Governance: ensuring responsible, as will further investment in skills, especially Conduct and other presentation materials ethical and honest behaviour in project management and in ensuring we which are displayed at Invensys facilities have engineering capability embedded in and are available in multiple languages on Our corporate responsibility strategy is our rapidly developing markets.
We will the Invensys intranet.
underpinned by our business principles also continue to improve understanding and Code of Conduct which stress the The Code of Conduct, together with and awareness of our employer brand in importance of responsible, ethical and supporting policies and associated training the marketplace so that we increase pride honest behaviour.
are the core elements in the latest iteration in working for Invensys and in making our of the Compliance Programme.
During the organisation a more distinctive and The Invensys Code of Conduct year, we launched further training on aspirational place to work.
The Invensys Code of Conduct both specific areas of compliance and offered Finally, we will continue to seek out describes and represents our commitment refresher courses in our Learning opportunities to bring the talents and to responsible business and is the Management System on critical areas of energy of our employees and business foundation of our broader Compliance theCode of Conduct, such as Anti-Bribery, to bear on local community challenges.
Under the terms of the Code Gifts and Entertainment and Conflicts of Conduct, our employees undertake to of Interest.
work with integrity as representatives of Invensys and in accordance with both local Looking forward laws and our own standards of ethical This report demonstrates how we have behaviour.
Where the Code of Conduct is continued to implement our strategy of more exacting than local laws or standards, embedding corporate responsibility into the Code of Conduct must be followed.
We have made progress Chief Executive inreducing our environmental footprint ina number of areas, and in increasing efficiency even as our business has developed over the last year.
Furthermore, we continue to insist that our suppliers conduct business in an ethical and responsible manner.
36 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
