Sustainability AMEC believes sustainable business is the balance of economic, environmental and social responsibilities, meeting the requirements of our stakeholders, consistently, in line with living our values.
To achieve this we have to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the very core of our business and within our decision-making processes.
Our sustainability strategy is described using three interwoven elements living our values, excellent project delivery and sustainable growth, each of which is described in more detail below and withinour sustainability report.
Living our values Our values are integral to how we do business and how we deliver projects successfully for our Living our customers.
They create the cultural context in which we work and form the foundation to our values sustainability strategy in four key areas: people: safety: environment: and integrity.
Policies, processes and standards are in place globally to ensure we are able to manage these areas consistently whereverwe work.
Highlights include: During 2012 we recruited over 10,000 people charity.
During the year we partnered with into thebusiness people SOS Children to support their village in Baku, Azerbaijan integrity Our e-academy, a learning management system designed to help us improve our New online Code of Business Conduct global reach to everyone at AMEC, was training rolled out to all employees by launched in June 2012.
To date we have had 2January 2013 17,838 employees had over 120,000 hits to the system people completed the training integrity During 2012 we had a target to focus on high Power management software is being potential incidents.
To this end, all 36 high implemented on our networked equipment potential incidents recorded were reviewed inall our locations globally.
To date the system at senior management level in 2011 we had has saved nearly 15,000 kWh in energy use.
48 high potential incidents safety Once fully rolled out we estimate the annual saving to be in the region of 1.49 GWh of During 2012 we achieved better than our electricity environment AllInjury Frequency Rate target and although we missed our overall Total Recordable Water strategy has been developed in Frequency Rate target we improved on our 2012, along with baseline water usage.
2011 performance safety Aprogramme in line with the strategy will berolled out 2013 onwards environment.
We had our fifth year supporting SOS Childrens Villages as our global strategic Excellent project delivery Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing on our customers and how we deliver to Excellent project themsafely and sustainably in line with our values.
delivery Our customers face increasing legislative and other pressures to operate in a sustainable way and weat AMEC are in an ideal place to support them, working with our partners and supply chain.
Theyare looking for sustainability solutions: minimising resource use water, materials, energy, considering long-term social requirements on our projects utilising local workforce and suppliers, supporting the local communities in which we work and ensuring the delivery of safe projects inherent within thedesign, on site during delivery and onwards during the operation.
In each of these areas, we utilise our internal programmes and tools, along with AMECs technical andscientific expertise, to ensure excellent customerdelivery.
24 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 OverviewStrategy Go Performancevernance Financials Highlights include: Roll out of our new global supplier registration Roll out of the Essentials of engineering safety and qualification system began to those and environmental protection through the suppliers viewed as critical to successful project lifecycle training programme through project delivery.
This new process incorporates AMEC Academy, to 1,414 people during 2012 health, safety and environmental requirements, In 2011, the Jabulani skills training compliance with the supplier code ofconduct centrewas established as part of the Sappi and specific ethics questions GoCellproject at Ngodwana in South Africa We are supporting EDF Energy Nuclear to maximise local community involvement Generation as a strategic partner for the and provide the project and local area with lifetime of the existing UK nuclear power construction skills.
During 2012 the training station fleet, focused on efficient low carbon centre won two achiever awards from asset operation with minimal losses and BHPBilliton maximising the generation lifetime of the Our Environment & Infrastructure division fleet, while ensuring zero harm to personnel held its innovation summit in October, and the environment showcasing best practice and innovative solutions from across the business.
Sustainable growth This third element of our  sustainable growth providesthe linkage from Sustainable livingour values and excellent project delivery to our Vision2015 business strategy and delivery growth ofthecompany vision andbeyond.
Highlights include: As part of our stakeholder engagement we could improve on.
The results of this in2012 we hosted a sustainability debate debate are helping us to shape our focus amongst our employees.
Over 100 people for2013 and beyond from across thebusiness actively took part, We were included in Dow Jones Sustainability discussing their thoughts on what sustainability Index for the ninth year in succession, continuing meant for AMEC, what we do well and what as industry leader within our sector.
Fit for the future Priorities include: Focus on communicating sustainability in practice as part Roll out of a project framework for sustainability of an employee awareness andengagement programme ensuring that sustainability is embedded within our projects in a consistent manner Ensure our carbon reporting and data capture processes are in line with new mandatory carbon Articulate our Employee Value Proposition EVP reporting requirements tobuild employee engagement Full review of our carbon footprint with the aim of Continue to focus on roll out of the Code of Business re-baselining during 2013 to take into account key Conduct training toensure that all of our employees changes within the organisation from 2008 have completed it.
In our reporting on sustainability we focus on those areas that are most important for us and to our stakeholders and those that are critical for AMECs long-term success.
We set targets for, and check on the progress of, over 40 sustainability indicators, some of which are incorporated into this report.
m See also 2012 sustainability report m On reflection, our employee magazine, highlights these and similar achievements m Our KPIs are shown on page 20 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 25
