Corporate governance statement continued Anna Ford Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee the barriers to healthy eating.
In addition we have met with a number Dear shareholder, of sustainable or socially responsible investors.
With 22 million customer visits Our major highlights over the past year are noted on pages 8 to 9 as well as being outlined in the business review on page 25.
This track every week, employing around record has been recognised by numerous awards and sustainability 150,000 colleagues and 2,000 indices, a selection of which is listed on these pages with others noted on our corporate website.
direct suppliers in over 70 We hold Gold class status in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, which countries, Sainsburys operates we first joined in 2003, and were recognised as a sector leader in this globally-recognised Index.
We have retained our high rating in the a significant economic, social FTSE4Good Index, which we have been part of since its inception in 2001.
Within FTSE4Good we were rated the highest performer relative to our and environmental value chain.
sector across all three pillars of environmental, social and governance practices.
These are the two most respected indices which enable Corporate responsibility CR is an integral part of Sainsburys business, financial institutions to benchmark companies performance in corporate with our five values critical to our goal of making all our customers lives responsibility and sustainability.
We also retained our Platinum Plus easier every day, by offering great quality and service at fair prices.
status in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, They are also key to achieving our vision to be the most trusted retailer as well as being recognised for our performance on a range of specific where people love to work and shop.
issues including energy, marine stewardship and animal welfare.
As chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, I report to the Perhaps most importantly, our customers voted Sainsburys joint first Board twice a year on our plans and on the progress we have made among our peers for taking social and environmental responsibilities against each of these values.
Ive chaired the work of the Committee seriously.
I find it particularly heartening that in challenging economic for six years and have seen a significant development in the Companys times we see that Sainsburys customers continue to look to us to help approach in that time.
While our values remain constant, the level of them live their values.
organisation and activity has become increasingly sophisticated with a sharp focus on ensuring our values also provide value for customers, The Company remains focused on ensuring our values make us different colleagues and shareholders.
and benefit our customers, colleagues and shareholders.
We will be providing a full update in our Corporate Responsibility Report later In October 2011 we launched our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan to this year.
This will be published to coincide with the anniversary of strengthen and further integrate corporate responsibility into our Sainsburys 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan.
In the meantime I encourage business.
We created the plan by working closely with over 40 you to find out more about this important aspect of our business at stakeholders and specialists, ranging from the National Farmers Union www.
to the World Wildlife Fund.
It has been well received by colleagues, customers and experts.
We continued our external engagement during the year, meeting 35 key stakeholders through five corporate responsibility discussions.
Each focused on one of our five values looking at topics such as youth engagement, water stewardship, community activities, sustainable living and how we can break down Anna Ford Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee 44 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued Awards Our CR achievements this year are recognised by a number of awards, including: Our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan In many ways the commitments encapsulated in our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan are not new to Sainsburys.
We have sought throughout our 143-year history to lead in matters of business responsibility and ethics.
Examples of our contribution over the past Gold class and sector leader, 2011 12 decade include transforming the market for fairly traded products and sustainable seafood, improving animal welfare, and championing community investment.
With our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan, we formalise our action against those values, as well as recognising the new and changing issues which Highest performer relative to our sector, 2011 12 todays world faces.
In developing the plan we undertook a detailed auditing and materiality process.
This encompassed listening to our customers, suppliers and opinion formers to make sure we have the most relevant and effective agenda, leverage the knowledge and experience of experts, and remain at the forefront of sustainability between now and 2020.
Platinum Plus, BITC Corporate Responsibility Index, 2012 With the clarity of purpose that the 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan brings, we are focused on its delivery, whilst also ensuring we continue to engage and look beyond 2020.
Most Sustainable Companies in the World, 2012 J Sainsbury plc Board David Tyler Chairman CR Committee Gold accreditation since 2010 Established January 2007 meets twice annually Anna Ford, Chair Non-Executive Director Winner, Energy, Guardian Sustainable Business Awards, 2011 CR steering group Established 2001, meets quarterly Justin King Chair, Chief Executive Best for food Health steering and health group Helen Buck Retail Director Best Volume Supermarket, Compassion in World Farming Awards, 2011 Brand Sourcing with integrity governance Mike Coupe steering Group Commercial group Director Respect for our Climate environment change Aquaculture Retailer of the Year, Scottish Marine Aquaculture steering Awards, 2011 Neil Sachdev group Property Director Making a positive Community difference to our steering community group Helen Buck Winner, Green Supply Chain, Supply Chain Distinction Awards, 2011 Retail Director A great A great place to work place to work Gwyn Burr steering Customer Service & group Colleague Director Winner, Nestl Wellness Award, IGD Food Industry Awards, 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 45
