CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Company aims to be an important part of the The Company regularly benchmarks its remuneration local communities in which it trades, managing its packages.
In addition to competitive pay rates, the responsibilities from both corporate and social Company has created a bonus scheme for all employees.
The Companys corporate social responsibility In this connection, the Company awarded bonuses and plan identifies four areas: people: responsible retailing: shares SIPs for employees of 24.1 million in the year, an community and charity: the environment.
Of the payments, 98.5% were made to employees below board level, with approximately 85% of payments made to employees People working in our pubs.
In addition to this, all employees are able to join the Companys health plan and pension plan, The Company aims to be a highly regarded employer, as well as obtain tax-efficient childcare vouchers.
through its investment in training and development, policies on equality, a competitive remuneration package and the encouragement of employees to participate Responsible retailing actively in business strategy.
Responsible drinks retailing The Company created over 2,500 new jobs in 2011 12 The Company supports practices which promote sensible and is working with government agencies and charities to drinking and has established a code of conduct for offer jobs to the long-term unemployed.
responsible retailing, outlining its approach in this area.
In relation to training, the Company held over 1,200 We also seek to develop partnerships with local separate training courses in 2011 12, attended by over authorities and the police.
All pubs are requested to 11,500 employees, and promoted over 1,800 staff to become a member of the local pubwatch scheme which shift leader or management positions.
promotes a safe and responsible drinking environment.
In a number of locations, a Company pub manager chairs In addition, the professional diploma in leisure retail the scheme and, where there is no pubwatch, we try to management, run in conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan work with the local police and council to establish one.
University, is offered to all pub managers and area A Company representative sits on the National Pubwatch managers.
We believe this diploma to have been the first committee and the business financially supports the in-house programme in the licensed trade which allows Drinkaware Trust and the British Institute of Innkeeping.
employees to gain a professional qualification while working.
The programme now includes a degree top-up, We encourage our pubs to enter the Best Bar None also in conjunction with the university.
In the last year, 41 schemes run by local authorities and the police, to employees have benefited from the scheme.
encourage good behaviour in town centres, promoting a safe and secure environment.
The quality and volume of the Companys training courses help to create motivation and to provide employees with Food information and quality the necessary skills to carry out their job to a consistently The Company aims to improve the quality of its food high standard.
All employees are now able to participate offering continually and to provide customers with the in e-learning, through a dedicated employee Web site.
required information about our product range, to allow them to make informed decisions about their food The Company offers a range of nationally recognised consumption.
This includes nutritional information for qualifications available to employees, including an all dishes, via our Web site and a printed leaflet, apprenticeship programme.
The Company is committed to equal opportunities and The Company endeavours to ensure strict specifications the elimination of discrimination, harassment and for all of its products, so that high standards of quality victimisation of employees.
Of our workforce, 51% is are met.
For example, the sausages which the Company female and 49% male.
sources from the Welsh Sausage Company contain only British pork, with no artificial colours or flavours: the The Company has also been recognised as an Age Company uses only dolphin-friendly tuna: the haddock, Positive employer, by the Department for Work and cod and salmon in our dishes are sourced from Pensions.
It has also been recognised by the Corporate recognised, sustainable fisheries: all fishcakes are made Research Foundation, in association with The Guardian with oak-smoked, line-caught, sustainable haddock: we newspaper, as one of Britains Top Employers, for nine use only British Lion Quality free-range eggs and cook consecutive years, including 2012. with virtually trans-fat-free oil.
