CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our beef & Abbot Ale pie was overall winner of Englands We have signed a Primary Authority Partnership under Best Steak Pie 2011, sponsored by the English Beef and the Better Regulation Delivery Office scheme for Health & Lamb Executive EBLEX : our Lincolnshire pork sausage Safety, Food Safety and Trading Standards, with Reading won the gold award from the British Pig Executive BPEX Borough Council.
in 2012: our Bramley apple, pear & raspberry crumble received Best Bramley Apple Food service product 2012, in the Brammy Awards.
Community All of the Companys food suppliers are accredited by the Historically, pubs have always been a focal point of any British Retail Consortium.
community, and we aim to continue that tradition by supporting and building relationships with the local Working with suppliers community, through employment and the provision of The Company usually seeks to promote long-term services and investment in the local area.
We aim to ensure relationships with its suppliers and supports UK farming, that we provide full access for those with disabilities.
using British chips and hash browns and British beef in its beef burgers, lasagne, chilli con carne, steak & kidney In the last year, the Company has received a number of pudding and beef & Abbot Ale pie.
All of our steaks are design awards for pub development, including the from Britain and Ireland.
Pontefract Civic Society Heritage Award The Broken Bridge, the Malvern Civic Society Award The Foley Where practicable, the Company works with suppliers, Arms, the Louth Civic Society Heritage Award The contractors and partners to minimise environmental Joseph Morton and, most recently, Melksham in Bloom.
impact and encourage sustainable sourcing.
The Company is the largest single corporate fund-raiser The Company supports brewers of all sizes, across the UK for the CLIC Sargent charity caring for children with and Ireland, so that customers can enjoy a diverse range cancer and their families, a partnership now in its ninth of real ales.
Wetherspoon is supporting over 400 UK consecutive year, raising over 6 million to date, with a microbrewers, delivering 5,100 ales through real-ale pledge to raise a further 1 million annually.
During the festivals, exhibitions, meet-the-brewer events and the past financial year, we have raised 1,409,139. promotion and stocking of their beers.
Every pub endeavours to have at least four ales available at all times, of which two are locally sourced.
There are 256 Environment Wetherspoon pubs listed in the CAMRA Good Beer Guide 2012 2011: 235 a larger proportion than any other The environment pub company.
The Company encourages measures which promote recycling and reduced energy consumption.
It is the There are 825 pubs 98% accredited by Cask Marque for Companys policy to: the quality and consistency of the real ale which they serve.
minimise the extent of the environmental impact, The Company seeks to carry out its business honestly, where reasonably practicable.
ethically and with respect for the rights and interests of conserve energy through minimising consumption and all of those involved.
The Company endeavours to ensure maximising efficiency.
that relations with customers, suppliers and business promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise partners are mutually beneficial and expects its business waste and allow materials to be recycled.
practices and standards to be upheld.
adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or other Health and safety disposal sites.
The Company seeks to promote high standards of safety, seek to minimise any emissions or effluents which may throughout the business, by endeavouring to ensure that cause environmental damage.
Pubs are regularly assessed for risks, with relevant solutions identified to Over the past 12 months, the Company has address them.
Pubs are also regularly audited for safety.
complemented its policy with several initiatives, including There is a Food Hygiene Rating Scheme system a local areas around energy-efficiency, recycling, ethical working authority scheme to measure good practice in these areas and health and safety.
which awards between zero and five.
Of our pubs, 95% of those listed now have scores of four or five.
