CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our beef & Abbot Ale pie was overall winner of Englands We have signed a Primary Authority Partnership under Best Steak Pie 2011, sponsored by the English Beef and the Better Regulation Delivery Office scheme for Health & Lamb Executive EBLEX : our Lincolnshire pork sausage Safety, Food Safety and Trading Standards, with Reading won the gold award from the British Pig Executive BPEX Borough Council.
in 2012: our Bramley apple, pear & raspberry crumble received Best Bramley Apple Food service product 2012, in the Brammy Awards.
Community All of the Companys food suppliers are accredited by the Historically, pubs have always been a focal point of any British Retail Consortium.
community, and we aim to continue that tradition by supporting and building relationships with the local Working with suppliers community, through employment and the provision of The Company usually seeks to promote long-term services and investment in the local area.
We aim to ensure relationships with its suppliers and supports UK farming, that we provide full access for those with disabilities.
using British chips and hash browns and British beef in its beef burgers, lasagne, chilli con carne, steak & kidney In the last year, the Company has received a number of pudding and beef & Abbot Ale pie.
All of our steaks are design awards for pub development, including the from Britain and Ireland.
Pontefract Civic Society Heritage Award The Broken Bridge, the Malvern Civic Society Award The Foley Where practicable, the Company works with suppliers, Arms, the Louth Civic Society Heritage Award The contractors and partners to minimise environmental Joseph Morton and, most recently, Melksham in Bloom.
impact and encourage sustainable sourcing.
The Company is the largest single corporate fund-raiser The Company supports brewers of all sizes, across the UK for the CLIC Sargent charity caring for children with and Ireland, so that customers can enjoy a diverse range cancer and their families, a partnership now in its ninth of real ales.
Wetherspoon is supporting over 400 UK consecutive year, raising over 6 million to date, with a microbrewers, delivering 5,100 ales through real-ale pledge to raise a further 1 million annually.
During the festivals, exhibitions, meet-the-brewer events and the past financial year, we have raised 1,409,139. promotion and stocking of their beers.
Every pub endeavours to have at least four ales available at all times, of which two are locally sourced.
There are 256 Environment Wetherspoon pubs listed in the CAMRA Good Beer Guide 2012 2011: 235 a larger proportion than any other The environment pub company.
The Company encourages measures which promote recycling and reduced energy consumption.
It is the There are 825 pubs 98% accredited by Cask Marque for Companys policy to: the quality and consistency of the real ale which they serve.
minimise the extent of the environmental impact, The Company seeks to carry out its business honestly, where reasonably practicable.
ethically and with respect for the rights and interests of conserve energy through minimising consumption and all of those involved.
The Company endeavours to ensure maximising efficiency.
that relations with customers, suppliers and business promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise partners are mutually beneficial and expects its business waste and allow materials to be recycled.
practices and standards to be upheld.
adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or other Health and safety disposal sites.
The Company seeks to promote high standards of safety, seek to minimise any emissions or effluents which may throughout the business, by endeavouring to ensure that cause environmental damage.
Pubs are regularly assessed for risks, with relevant solutions identified to Over the past 12 months, the Company has address them.
Pubs are also regularly audited for safety.
complemented its policy with several initiatives, including There is a Food Hygiene Rating Scheme system a local areas around energy-efficiency, recycling, ethical working authority scheme to measure good practice in these areas and health and safety.
which awards between zero and five.
Of our pubs, 95% of those listed now have scores of four or five.
44 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Energy-efficiency Glass-recycling continues to be a major focus.
During the The Company recognises that energy consumption is financial year, we recycled 11,800 tonnes of glass, in unavoidable, but understands that we have a partnership with BIFFA and other operators, a glassresponsibility for those resources which we use and that recycling rate of 75%.
We aim to increase this recycling good environmental management is an essential part of rate to at least 90%, by other initiatives, such as glassbeing a responsible business.
crushers and improved waste segregation.
In the last year, we have continued to work with Carbon In 2010, the Company was awarded Recycling Statement to measure each pubs carbon footprint.
Performance of the Year from the Chartered Institute of Carbon Statement produces a weekly carbon-emission Waste Management CIWM, in recognition of excellent report for each pub, detailing the amount of carbon waste-minimisation progress achieved to date.
In 2011, dioxide CO emitted by each pub, through energy usage the national distribution centre was awarded the DHL 2 and waste disposal, as well as the CO emission reduction Food Retail Environmental Award for initiatives in 2 through recycling.
Carbon Statement has also assisted us reducing carbon emissions across the operation.
in ensuring that we comply with the governments Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, which started in April 2010.
Su Cacioppo Personnel and Legal Director The Company also aims to ensure that, when new pubs 14 September 2012 are developed or current ones upgraded, equipment and processes are introduced to minimise ongoing energy consumption.
Sustainability reduce, reuse, recycle The Company aims to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill and other disposal sites, through a combination of packaging reduction, reusing packaging and the recycling of waste products.
Reduce The Company continues to work with suppliers, to reduce packaging materials brought into the pubs.
This leads to fewer deliveries and reduces the required number of road miles.
Reuse Where possible, unwanted equipment is transferred among pubs by our distribution fleet, so that it can be used elsewhere.
Recycle The Company has a dedicated supply chain for its food, bottled drinks and non-consumable products, so that material can be returned to the Companys recycling operation, reducing the required number of road miles.
During the financial year 2011 12, the Company recycled 7,775 tonnes of waste at its distribution centre, an increase of 4% on the previous year.
This included 56 tonnes of aluminium, 4,857 tonnes of cardboard and paper, 2,363 tonnes of cooking oil, 315 tonnes of plastic and 184 tonnes of steel.
