Overview: People Powering Performance OUR S. P. I. R. I. T. S. P. I. R. I. T. runs through both of our divisions.
Its what helps to set us a ap par art from o t from our ur competitors and powers s o ou ur r pe per rf for orman mance ce.. A strategy that delivers p. 04 S AFETY & SEC URITY What it means to us Making safety matter in all day to dayactivities.
How it drives performance Every employee is clear on their role and responsibilities.
This develops an environment where there is no delay in dealing with safety and security issues.
We strive to ensure that all our employees and customers are notfaced with any risks during thecourse of our business.
By delivering market leading safety standards we retain and attract new customers.
Aircraft incidents in 2012 0.046 per 1,000 aircraft turnarounds John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 06 PE OPLE What it means to us We treat people with respect as wellas supporting and encouraging them to progress in their careers bybeing honest and constructive.
How it drives performance Our people are our connection withour customers, by ensuring wehave the best people we derive better results for our customers andour shareholders.
Employees worldwide 22,151 Average number of employees during 2012 Safety performance awarded In Mexico we were awarded 18 separate safety awards by Viva Aerobus for having zero findings during their safety audits.
J Jo oh hn n M Me en nz zi ie es s p pl lc c An An nn uu ala R l R ee pp oo rtr 2 t 2 00 12 12 07 07 Overview: People Powering Performance continued INNOV ATION What it means to us We continue to challenge the way we do things by having an open environment where everyone hasthe opportunity to express theirideas.
How it drives performance Innovation allows us to learn and develop from our experiences.
We keep our employees motivated by building strong communication links with them to initiate and embrace change.
We continue to find cost effective solutions and apply themthroughout our business.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 08 Menzies Distribution App: The app offers a growing range of options for customers to conduct their most common transactions with us online.
R ELIABILITY What it means to us We do it right all the time.
How it drives performance Our customers trust us to keep theirbusinesses serviced effectively and efficiently hence Menzies being their preferred service provider.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 09 Overview: People Powering Performance continued I NTEGRITY What it means to us We will be open and honest in all that we do.
How it drives performance By building trust based relationships internally with our employees we reflect the same qualities with our customers.
We value feedback andensure that ideas to improve systems and processes, whether from employees or customers, areadequately considered andimplemented.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 10 TEAMWORK What it means to us We are committed to working together to succeed.
How it drives performance We acknowledge, recognise and manage performance.
We work towards a common goal.
Team building workshop in Bangalore A group of 20 employees assisted in organising a cross cultural football tournament.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 11 11
