Operating Review: Corporate Social Responsibility continued Within Menzies Aviation, analysis Carbon Trust Standard Carbon Trust Standard ofaccident trends shows that Menzies Distribution achieved the musculoskeletal type injuries Carbon Trust Standard for the second resulting from manual handling time in 2011 for the energy efficiency activities continue to contribute work that has been undertaken in the significantly to the total injuries division.
The Carbon Trust Standard reported in 2012.
These injuries are isawarded to organisations that indicative of the industry and the measure, manage and reduce their nature of ramp services and cargo carbon footprint.
It shows which handling tasks which all require a businesses and organisations are high degree of physical handling.
taking real action on climate change Menzies Aviation are constantly and reducing carbon emissions and reviewing their approach to manual the award recognises Menzies handling training to drive down Distributions efforts to date and its musculoskeletal type injuries such commitment to further reductions.
as the Pristine Condition approach.
In2013, the Group will again ensurethat Menzies Distribution Environment undergoes a re-certification process, Each of our two divisions has its demonstrating the continuing ownenvironmental policy, which commitment of the business to hasbeen approved by the Divisional carbon reduction.
Operating Boards and is integrated within existing management Carbon footprint reduction continues structures and implemented through across the Group, providing normal business practices and efficiencies and reducing costs to the procedures.
These environmental business, and both divisions remain policies address the following areas: committed to minimising the impact they have on the environment.
t complying with legislation and best practice: Energy Consumption t allocating roles, responsibilities Since 2007, all Menzies Distribution and resources: mainland UK electricity has been t monitoring, verification and procured from fully green renewable auditing of compliance: resources.
The division had a target t data collection, analysis and of reducing electricity consumption reporting: by over 12% from its 2008 figures by t risk identification, assessment the end of 2011, and seeks to maintain andmanagement: its accreditation to Carbon Trust t communication and dissemination Standard.
Total energy consumption of information: at Menzies Distribution during the year t adopting technology and working amounted to 28.5m kWh, an increase practices that are modern, of circa 5% on 2011 due to extended environmentally friendly and periods ofcold weather.
energy efficient: and t working with customers and Menzies Aviation operates largely suppliers to address environmental inshared environments such as issues affecting our businesses.
airport terminals, and their direct billed energy is significantly lower At Group level, environmental issues than that of Menzies Distribution.
affecting the businesses are the However, they work closely with responsibility of, and reported by, airport authorities in minimising each Divisional Managing Director theirenergy consumption, and tothe Board.
Environmental risks actively promote efficiencies associated with new businesses are withintheir own premises.
always assessed as part of our due diligence process on all acquisitions.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 30
