activities and a charities committee During the week 10 days, the two allocates the expenditure.
CCTC participants were introduced to concepts and frameworks relating Community Team Challenge to leading teamsand working Menzies Aviation continued its cross culturally Community Team Challenge CTC programme, which it launched in The objective of the India CCTC was 2011 combining the development of to ensure the smooth-running of the our talented management team with football tournament, one of a kind putting something back with a focus U-16 boys tournament, now known on helping children in communities as the Parikrma Champions League, Parikrma Humanity Foundation around the world where we operate.
which has become an incredibly The Parikrma Champions League There were 3 distinct objectives: important date in the calendar for inBangalore is part of the Cross allinvolved.
Menzies Aviation Cultural Team Challenge.
1. to create a life changing participants, along with team experience for our employees, members from the Parikrma Foundation, organised the 2. for the Company to become tournament including the involved in a project with local registrations, sound system, community benefit and entertainment, commentary and match scheduling and security.
3. to work with the local community to provide sustainable benefit.
Parikrma Humanity Foundation is anon-profit organisation with the The 2012 challenges afforded the aimto ensure that even the poorest opportunity for the Company to children have access to the best continue its efforts in making a opportunities anywhere in the world.
positive sustainable community Parikrma runs 4 Centres for Learning impact by continuing its support and a Junior College for 1,375 of2charities within countries children from 69 slum communities thatitoperates: South Africa and 4 orphanages in Bangalore.
Besides English language education, nutrition, healthcare and family care, This year, apart from providing a sport is an integral part of education rewarding and life-lasting experience at Parikrma.
for 20 talented and promising managers, there was also a strong developmental aspect, aiming to engage the managers involved in challenges and tasks that will help them build on their leadership, communication, and organising skills, as well as enhance their confidence and exposure to their colleagues andsenior managers from across thenetwork.
The purpose was to use the vehicleof working in and leading cross cultural teams to complete community challenges, develop skillsand knowledge related to leadership and team performance.
Given the emphasis of cross cultural awareness and management, the project was, therefore, rebranded asthe Cross Cultural Team Challenge CCTC.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 27
