Operating Review: Corporate Social Responsibility S. P. I. R. I. T. RUNS THROUGH THE HEART OF OUR PEOPLE AND HELPS DRIVE A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS whistle-blowing, and the Board has Our Policy and Structure Group financial review p. 20 tasked each Divisional Managing We believe that our business Director to be responsible for the conduct, policies and guidelines implementation of all of these which we have in place concerning www.
com ethics, sound business practices and policies in their divisions.
wider governance issues will not John Menzies plc is included in only enhance our standing inthe theFTSE4Good index for socially community, but also provide a better responsible investment.
We chose business forall our stakeholders.
toparticipate in this index because the index measures the performance The Company recognises that being of companies that meet globally a socially responsible company adds recognised responsibility standards.
to and enhances the Companys overall value, both short and long A description of the Companys term.
The impact our business internal control system for activities have on the environment, management, particularly of financial communities in which we operate, risks, is in the Corporate Governance and wider society are important to statement on pages 36 to 45. us.
We recognise that all our stakeholders have an interest in our An analysis of the key business risks facing the Group appears in business activities, and seek to the Operating Review on page 32. maintain an open and participatory TheGroup also publishes on its dialogue ensuring that our business website an Annual Corporate Social activities are performed in a safe, Responsibility Report which details ethical and efficient way.
the practices, strategies and policies We have systems in place to identify, being implemented across the divisions.
A copy of the Report analyse and manage key risks arising for2012 can be accessed at from our operations, and develop www.
The policies and guidelines we have Investment in Communities inplace set standards concerning John Menzies plc is aware that it has ethics, sound business practices andwider governance issues.
community obligations, particularly within the countries and localities where it does business.
We have The Board expects the Group to apositive duty to improve the well conduct its operations based on being of individuals and to use our sound ethical practices which are best endeavours to enhance open and free from discrimination community life.
A positive approach and harassment, and will promote a positive representation of the Group to our community relations is in thebest long term interests of our to stakeholders.
The Group has Company and of those who work adopted and disseminated within it.
Each year the Group Board appropriate policies and procedures, sets a budget for its charitable including clear guidelines on matters such as competition law, bribery and John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 26
