130 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Accounts Accounting Policies for the year ended 31st March 2012 Share-based payments and employee share ownership trust ESOT The fair value of outstanding shares allocated to employees under the long term incentive plan is calculated by adjusting the share price on the date of allocation for the present value of the expected dividends that will not be received.
The resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting where appropriate.
The group and parent company provide finance to the ESOT to purchase company shares in the open market.
Costs of running the ESOT are charged to the income statement.
The cost of shares held by the ESOT is deducted in arriving at equity until they vest unconditionally in employees.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The group operates a number of contributory and non-contributory plans, mainly of the defined benefit type, which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The costs of the defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit plans, the group and parent company recognise the net assets or liabilities of the schemes in their balance sheets.
Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality corporate bonds.
Assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The changes in scheme assets and liabilities, based on actuarial advice, are recognised as follows: The current service cost is spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees services based on the most recent actuarial valuation and is deducted in arriving at operating profit.
The interest cost, based on the discount rate at the beginning of the year and the present value of the defined benefit obligation during the year, is included in operating profit.
The expected return on plan assets, based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the related obligation and amended for changes in the fair value of plan assets as a result of contributions paid in and benefits paid out, is included in operating profit.
Actuarial gains and losses, representing differences between the expected return and actual return on plan assets and reimbursement rights, differences between actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of total comprehensive income in the year they occur.
Past service costs are spread evenly over the period in which the increases in benefit vest and are deducted in arriving at operating profit.
If an increase in benefits vests immediately, the cost is recognised immediately.
Gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments are included in operating profit.
Standards and interpretations adopted in the year During the year, the following new and amendments to accounting standards and interpretations were adopted: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement, IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters and the Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010 have all been adopted during the year.
There was no material impact on the reported results or financial position of the group and parent company.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet applied The impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosures, IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the revised IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures are still being evaluated.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits was revised in June 2011 and is applicable for periods beginning on or after 1st January 2013.
It removes the corridor approach for recognising actuarial gains and losses and eliminates options for presenting gains and losses which will have no effect on the group and parent company.
It also amends the disclosures and requires the replacement of the expected return on plan assets and interest cost on plan obligations with net interest on the net defined benefit liability based on the discount rate.
The full effect on the group and parent company is still being evaluated but it is likely to reduce the groups profit before tax by approximately 6 million.
The effects of any standards and interpretations amended or issued after 30th April 2012 have not yet been evaluated.
The group and parent company do not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB but not yet applicable will have a significant impact on their reported results or net assets.
