74 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Environment Environment continued The method of water treatment used at Johnson Matthey has a robust and Our environment related priorities for each site is appropriate to the effluent effective management system which 2012 13 are to: quality and volume and the requirements requires all sites to report environmental Ensure that the future environmental of the receptor.
incidents to the groups EHS department.
performance of the group is aligned The chemical oxygen demand COD During 2011 12 no significant spillages to the Sustainability 2017 Vision of test is commonly used to indirectly to the environment of raw materials, cutting carbon intensity by half, measure the amount of organic compounds intermediates or products have been achieving zero waste to landfill and in water.
Most applications of COD reported by the group.
halving key resources per unit of determine the amount of organic pollutants output, by helping each business found in surface water e. g. lakes and rivers, Environmental Aims and Targets develop projects and metrics to making COD a useful measure of water achieve our goals.
The group will continue to manage quality.
In 2011 12 the group discharged environmental impacts in the context of Further develop our internal data organic chemicals equivalent to a COD an expanding business by building on the reporting systems to improve of 260 tonnes into water courses, as best practice examples of performance consistency of reporting across our regulated by local emission limits at each improvement delivered so far, integration sites and to increase the frequency manufacturing facility.
This is a 4% increase of lean manufacturing principles, process of internal reporting.
on the prior year which resulted mainly intensification and step change from the first full year of data reported by manufacturing technologies.
This work will some sites.
be supported by the groups global Manufacturing Excellence programme.
Case Study Is Water Stress a Risk for Johnson Matthey?
Climate change experts have warned that parts of the world will experience water shortages in the decades to come.
In December 2007, Johnson Matthey made a commitment to halve the amount of water it uses per unit of output by 2017.
Now, in addition to its efforts to reduce water consumption, the company is assessing the water related risks in its direct business operations.
This analysis provides important insights and flags up strategic issues.
If water stress deteriorated into extreme water scarcity, could manufacturing operations be affected?
What are the business risks?
The exercise has highlighted which manufacturing sites are in regions of water stress and has enabled informed risk analysis.
Further work will be done on water stress and risk at site and divisional level and the analysis will help Johnson Matthey to develop policies that promote water efficiency and infrastructure improvements.
Process water recycling and rain water catchment systems are already part of Johnson Mattheys response to halving the use of this key resource.
The water stress assessment complements existing work and provides the opportunity for high level strategic planning on water issues.
Read the full case study at www.
Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes million sales million sales
