50 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Social Social Performance Summary 2012 2011 Average number of employees 9,914 9,388 1 Total employee turnover % 11.7 8.5 1 Voluntary employee turnover % 6.4 5.6 2 Employee gender female % 22 22 Gender of new recruits female % 25 23 Trade union representation % 35 38 Training days per employee 3.1 2.6 3 Training spend per employee 335 390 Internal promotions % of all recruitment in year 35 33 Attendance days lost per employee 5.0 5.2 Charitable donations thousands 645 517 1 Employee turnover is calculated by reference to the total number of leavers during the year expressed as a percentage of the average number of people employed during the year.
The analysis does not include agency workers not directly employed by Johnson Matthey.
3 Training spend does not include the cost of in house training or the cost of employees wages during training.
In Johnson Matthey there is a strong tradition of looking after our employees, of good community relations and of interaction with and responsiveness towards our stakeholders.
We recognise that in order to operate in a socially sustainable manner, our actions and our policies must be focused on the long term benefits to employees, suppliers, customers, communities and other stakeholders.
Read more on our social policies in the Governance section on pages 79 to 81.
Visit our website for full details of our social activities and policies at www.
We aim to provide meaningful and Developments in 2011 12 Stakeholder Engagement transparent communications to meet the We have continued to see evidence this Johnson Matthey has a wide range of needs of all stakeholder groups and deliver year of the increasing importance of stakeholders with an interest in hearing information to them in the most appropriate governance matters in our supply chains from or working with the company at both format.
These formats may include annual and have completed a number of a corporate and business level.
Our performance reports, participation in questionnaires received from our stakeholders include any person or performance indices Carbon Disclosure customers and suppliers regarding our organisation that may interact with, or Project, FTSE4Good, for example or one environmental, social and ethical practices.
have an interest in, Johnson Matthey and to one discussions on specific topics.
In We remain actively involved with the include customers, employees and their March 2012 the company launched its key trade associations and industry representatives, suppliers, fund managers, new corporate website.
The site has been organisations that are connected with our shareholders, communities, governments, developed to provide more in depth business activities as an effective way of non-governmental organisations NGOs information for all stakeholder groups with understanding, shaping, participating and and national and international trade enhanced navigation to enable users to contributing to a range of discussion areas associations.
The company is also find the information they need more relevant to the companys stakeholders, engaged with national and local quickly.
We communicate with our and those of the broader industry and government to inform the development stakeholders throughout the year and market sectors in which we operate.
of policy in areas where our technology engagement is integrated into our business Our involvement and discussions and products can play a pivotal role.
This 360 degree may cover areas such as climate change, Johnson Matthey meets regularly with its dialogue is essential in providing all parties emerging regulation, legislation, health and major shareholders, as described in the with a rounded view of all material issues safety, standards and guidance.
Emerging Corporate Governance Report on pages and helps all to shape their actions and issues that may have a material impact on 98 and 99, to discuss the performance strategies to move forward on these our industry sectors are also carefully and development of the groups businesses, matters.
For further details on our considered.
Examples of our involvement including matters relating to sustainability stakeholder engagement activities, including are illustrated in the following case studies.
a stakeholder map, visit the companys website at www.
51 Case Study Case Study Stakeholder Engagement in Action Stakeholder Engagement in Action The Chemical Industries The Prince of Waless Association Corporate Leaders Group Johnson Matthey is a member of the UK Chemical on Climate Change Industries Association CIA and a number of our Johnson Matthey is a founder member of the Prince senior managers and specialist advisers participate of Waless Corporate Leaders Group UK CLG on in CIA networks and working groups.
Following the Climate Change, working closely on climate change development last year of the CIA sustainable health issues with 17 other leading UK businesses.
UK metrics indicator tool, which was piloted globally in CLG members share our belief that there needs to Johnson Matthey and has been integrated into our be clear, ambitious and long term policies in place health improvement programmes, the CIA has now in order to mitigate the effects of climate change.
published the final version of the scorecard.
It has As a member of the UK CLG we helped to shape been made available to member companies through the influential Copenhagen Communiqu which launch events and the CIA has plans to roll it out has now been signed by almost 1,000 companies to a wider audience for more general use by the around the world.
In June 2011 the UK CLG chemical and other industries.
The scorecard published Seize the Day, a new report into underpins the leading metrics for the UK CIAs government policy, that calls for stronger action on sustainable development goals set in 2010 for 2020. climate leadership.
In May 2012 it launched Down It will allow the CIA to identify whether member to Zero, a collaboration with UK governments companies have the correct level of health Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, that programmes in place and track encourage further will bring public and private companies together in improvement.
procurement compacts to deliver progressively We have also continued to support the CIAs lower carbon goods and services into the market.
Responsible Care programme as a peer reviewer to verify other member companies.
Case Study Case Study Stakeholder Engagement in Action Stakeholder Engagement in Action The International Platinum Pgm Health Science Group Metals Association Research Group Johnson Matthey has continued its work with the In response to interest from our stakeholders and International Platinum Group Metals Association IPA as part of our voluntary product responsible care whose membership comprises major primary efforts, Johnson Matthey has continued to fund and platinum group metal pgm mining companies and participate in the Pgm Health Science Research fabricators accounting for some 80% of annual Group HSRG, an industry sector organisation pgm supply.
The IPA is engaged in developing a which aims to improve the quality of existing risk sustainability strategy for the pgm industry and assessments for the pgms and their applications, Johnson Matthey leads its sub-committee responsible for example in autocatalysts.
During the year for achieving sustainability strategy outcomes.
HSRGs research programmes have delivered new During the last 12 months we have helped information relevant to risk assessments and in the the IPA to develop a programme for a life cycle interests of transparency, these findings continue inventory study which aims to measure the to be published in appropriate peer reviewed environmental burdens and benefits of producing science journals.
and using platinum group metals.
The study is projected to cover the entire life cycle of the metals from primary extraction through refining, fabrication, use and recycling.
It is intended to be used for the internal benchmarking of the environmental performance of the pgm industry.
