58 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Social Social continued Charitable Donations In 2011 12, 33 charitable causes received Social Aims and Targets Johnson Mattheys long history of support an annual donation through this scheme.
We will continue to improve our recruitment for charitable causes continues today The groups programme also considers processes on a global basis to ensure that through group and business programmes.
individual requests for support throughout we are well placed to recruit high calibre The causes we support reflect the areas in the year and a further 67 charitable employees in all our regions.
Plans are which the groups technologies have a organisations received donations on this underway to further develop our online benefit and the issues which strike a chord basis in 2011 12.
The group also has a presence and use digital media to enhance with our employees.
In the financial year specific programme of support focused on users experience and encourage interest to 31st March 2012 Johnson Matthey promoting the understanding and in our business.
donated 645,000 to charitable awareness of science among children and Alongside our efforts on recruitment, organisations, up 25% on the prior year.
young people and has identified several employee training and development at all This figure only includes donations made new programmes which it will support in levels will remain a key priority to ensure by Johnson Matthey and does not include 2012 13. we retain high potential and high payroll giving, donations made by staff or The Johnson Matthey Educational performing staff and equip them with the employee time.
The company made no Trust was set up in 1967 to commemorate technical and leadership capabilities political donations in the year.
the 150th anniversary of the founding of needed to achieve the long term goals set Across the globe, Johnson Mattheys the company.
It awards scholarships to out in our strategy.
Plans are in place to sites lend support to many charities locally support the university education of the launch a number of new training modules and nationally through donations, offspring of Johnson Mattheys current and in 2012 13, including those to support the employee time or loans of company retired employees.
During the year the groups Manufacturing Excellence facilities.
Examples of these initiatives are Trust approved grants totalling 82,500. programme and leadership development summarised in the case study examples The company continues to select a in China.
in this report with full details and further charity partner to focus support on one Community investment remains an examples available on our website.
particular cause and employee views are important aspect of building a sustainable considered when identifying the charity.
business and following the launch of the Read more online at The group is supporting CLIC Sargent, the community investment strategy and policy, www.
UKs leading cancer charity for children work will continue to support our and young people and their families, and operations around the world in developing At a group level, Johnson Matthey other national childhood cancer charities their community programmes.
We will also operates a charitable donations around the world in a two year partnership start to track additional performance programme which represented 47% that will run to the end of 2013 14. metrics, for example employee volunteering 305,000 of total company donations Johnson Matthey is a member of the days, with a view to reporting this data in in 2011 12.
This programme supports London Benchmarking Group LBG, a future years.
organisations working in the areas of global network of companies that share environment and sustainability, medical and drive best practice in corporate and health, science and education, social community investment.
The charitable donations programme includes an annual donations scheme where a number of charities are selected triennially and receive a donation from the company each year for a three year period.
Charitable Donations Charitable Donations 2011 12 Charitable Donations Corporate thousands central group donations % of total 305,000 donated by Other charitable type corporate Fine functions Other Chemicals 2% Corporate 17% 6% central group 645 700 Precious Environment Social welfare donations Metal Products and sustainability 34% 600 517 47% 495 15% 1% 458 500 415 International 400 development 4% 300 Medical 200 Environmental and health 100 Technologies 21% 0 Science and 30% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 education 23% 59 Case Study Working Together to Support Children with Cancer Every two years, Johnson Matthey selects a charity partner in the UK and centres its fundraising activities on that cause.
Sites in other countries are encouraged to find and support a similar charity.
Johnson Matthey has chosen CLIC Sargent, a leading UK cancer charity, as its charity partner for 2012 to 2014.
CLIC Sargent supports children and young people who have been diagnosed with cancer.
It helps them and their families by providing clinical, financial and emotional support.
Funds raised go towards a range of services: financial support, free breaks for families, play specialists who use play to help children understand the procedures involved, free self-catering accommodation close to specialist hospitals and more.
CLIC Sargent is affiliated to the International Confederation of Cancer Parent Organizations, which has member organisations on five continents.
Johnson Mattheys operations around the world have been invited to get involved and support their local childhood cancer charity.
The companys charity partnership provides a focus for employee fundraising and the sums raised provide a very real support to the charity.
In the previous partnership, over 70,000 was raised to support the British Heart Foundation.
Read the full case study at www.
Case Study Revitalising the Field of Dreams The Field of Dreams is a recreational playground in West Deptford, New Jersey, USA.
Once a fairyland of turrets, walkways and dedicated play areas, it was originally built by community volunteers in 1996.
The park is close to Johnson Mattheys West Deptford site and employees themselves have used the park for family outings.
Time has, however, taken its toll and the Field of Dreams had become in need of repair, with its once colourful towers weather beaten and worn and the protective mulch ground down to bare dirt.
Johnson Matthey, together with another local company, has come to the rescue with donations of much needed funds and with employees volunteering their time to restore the park to its former glory.
The project was completed in May 2012 and Johnson Mattheys West Deptford site is proud to have been able to help realise the dreams of local children.
