.. Manufacturing decorative precious metals for glass and Our Catalysts and Chemicals business develops and commercialises ceramics at our Maastricht facility in the Netherlands.
catalyst technologies for customers in the pharmaceutical and fine chemical industries.
Responsible Care Johnson Matthey has aligned its operating Case Study practices with the principles of Responsible Care as defined in the Global Charter developed by the International Council of Chemical Associations ICCA and with sustainable development goals and guiding principles for example those outlined by the UK Chemical Industries Association in its Chemistry of Sustainability report.
Responsible Care is a voluntary programme in which companies commit to continuously improve their environmental, health and safety performance.
It places particular emphasis on product stewardship and sustainability, and communication with stakeholders about their products and processes.
Regulatory Matters Chemical Control Regulations REACH, GHS, TSCA and Related Standards Behavioural Safety at Redwitz Substantial progress has been made this A strong safety culture is key to industrial site safety.
Analysis of accidents and year to develop further our testing and incidents at the Johnson Matthey site at Redwitz in Germany showed that evaluation programmes in support of our behaviour played a significant role and a behavioural safety programme was scheduled product registrations for the set up to improve the safety culture.
next EU REACH regulation milestone in The programme was launched in the summer of 2011 and was facilitated mid 2013 covering medium tonnage by a specialist industrial psychologist.
In the first phase, 98 employees substances.
We continued to participate participated as managers, supervisors and operators met to assess the sites in industry consortia to maximise data safety performance.
In the second phase of the programme, managers and sharing opportunities and to reduce costs.
supervisors developed safety behaviour standards which define the behaviour Preparations for compliance with new Asia that is expected of everyone on site.
These standards are being region REACH equivalent regulations are communicated to all employees and integrated into induction and staff training also underway.
The majority of the groups products All employees were involved in the programme and a collective ownership now conform with the current requirements of safety has emerged.
Results to date have been very promising: all lost time of the Globally Harmonised System GHS accidents have been reduced by more than 40% and greater than three day for chemical classification and hazard accidents have been reduced to zero.
However, even this is not enough.
Following the order to make further improvements, the site is continuing its behavioural safety announcement of US implementation of programme and plans are in place to roll out the programme to other sites.
GHS HazCom 2012, we are also working to implement the associated Read the full case study at www.
workplace and hazard communication requirements for this major system.
