68 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Environment Reducing the impact of our operations and developing beneficial products Environment This section provides more detail on the impact of our business on the environment.
It details the environmental performance of our operations in the year and highlights the beneficial impact of our products.
Delivering Value Developing the Next Generation of Sustainable Products Research and development efforts at Johnson Matthey are focused on the development of new, more sustainable products for our customers.
With continued interest around the world in the development of fuels from renewable resources, our scientists are applying their expertise in catalysis to develop cost competitive routes to hydrocarbon fuels derived from non-food biomass.
In one collaborative research project, which is funded by the US Department of Energy, we are investigating technology that turns carbon dioxide into liquid transportation fuels.
Organisms, such as algae, are highly efficient at converting carbon dioxide into fatty acids and triglycerides and at Johnson Matthey we are developing state of the art catalysts that will convert those fatty acids and triglycerides into hydrocarbon fuels.
The project aims to develop technology that is not only cost competitive with petroleum derived fuels, but that is also more sustainable than existing biofuels.
Progress to date has been showcased at the recent ARPA-e Energy Innovation summit in Washington, US where a half litre sample of biorenewable diesel, produced using Johnson Mattheys patented catalyst technology, was on display... Our emission control catalysts have a beneficial impact Johnson Mattheys nitrous oxide abatement systems have contributed on the environment by improving air quality for millions to reductions equivalent to over 35 million tonnes of carbon dioxide of people around the world.
from nitric acid manufacturing plants.
Contents 70 Performance Summary 70 Managing Performance and Driving Continuous Improvement 70 Environmental Performance in 2011 12 74 Environmental Aims and Targets 75 Biodiversity
