56 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Social Social continued Johnson Matthey also sponsors We have four key objectives for our Community Investment pension plans for its employees worldwide.
community investment programmes: Johnson Matthey has a strong tradition of These pension plans are a combination of To demonstrate our commitment to good community relations and the company defined benefit and defined contribution being a responsible business that and its employees are actively involved in pension arrangements, savings schemes provides value beyond our products.
We believe that and provident funds designed to provide investing in our communities is an integral To make a positive impact on the appropriate retirement benefits based on part of our social commitment to ensure communities in which we operate.
local laws, custom and market practice.
the ongoing sustainable success of the Johnson Matthey continues to To create goodwill and enhance our company.
maintain good and constructive relations reputation within our local Although Johnson Matthey is a global with all recognised trade unions which communities.
company, we believe community investment collectively represent 35% of all group is about making a real difference locally To build our profile as an employer employees worldwide 2010 11 38%.
The and making a positive impact in the of choice.
following table sets out the average number communities where we have operations.
and percentage of Johnson Mattheys Guidance on site requirements for We have an important contribution to employees who were covered by collective community relations is detailed in the make to the economic development of our bargaining arrangements and represented group environment, health and safety local communities, not only as an employer by trade unions by geographical region in management system and a review of but also through collaboration and 2011 12.
During 2011 12 no working time community investment activities across the investment, both financial and in kind, for was lost within the group due to employee group is carried out each year.
In 2011 12, example by volunteering and donating action.
the review indicates that 85% of Johnson resources and expertise.
Mattheys operations participated in As we are global, the communities we activities within their local communities.
Trade Union Representation operate in face a wide range of priorities, These activities are wide ranging and issues and challenges.
As a result we aim Average headcount 2011 12 include charitable giving, support for to ensure that our sites have the resources Permanent % educational projects, the advancement and support to identify those projects, Region employees Represented represented of science and economic regeneration initiatives and partnerships that can make Europe 4,868 2,194 45% projects.
The review also indicates that a real difference in their communities and North America 2,839 558 20% 95% of sites have a nominated person that mean something to employees and Asia 1,344 306 23% responsible for this area.
We also aim to support the Rest of World 611 337 55% to 2012 13, the review shows that 78% future growth of our business through the Total group 9,662 3,395 35% of operations have set objectives for their promotion of science education among community investment activities with 65% young people.
having planned activities for the year.
Case Study Investing in the Local Community Local Enterprise Partnerships are a scheme that was launched by the coalition government in England in 2011 to foster growth at a local level.
Johnson Matthey is a leading business in Royston and so when the Hertfordshire Local Enterprise Partnership LEP was formed, it was natural that Johnson Matthey should be involved from the start.
John Gourd, the Site Planning and Services Director at Royston, accepted a position on the initial board and, subsequently, the role of chairman.
The Hertfordshire LEP is a business led partnership between local businesses, academic institutions and local government which aims to boost the local economy and create new jobs.
In February 2012, the chairs of all 39 LEPs around the country, including John Gourd, were invited to meet the Prince of Wales and discuss the work of his charity, the Princes Trust.
Prince Charles was keen to understand how the LEPs could work with his charity to help young people, especially in areas of high unemployment.
Our participation in the local LEP is an extension of the Royston sites community engagement strategy and recognises the importance of playing our part in helping to strengthen the local economy.
Read the full case study at www.
57 Case Study Volunteering in Ecuador In October 2010, ten employees from Johnson Mattheys Davy Process Technology business set about raising 15,000 to enable them to support a community project in rural Ecuador to renovate a school and build a local nursery.
After several fundraising events, generous donations and more office cake sales than the health element of the sustainability programme ever envisaged, the team set off to Ecuador in July 2011.
Hosted by local Shuar families, the team was introduced to the distinctive Shuar culture and they were also able to share some UK traditions of their own.
By the time the team left, the school buildings had been renovated and they were ready for use.
All the wood needed for the building of the nursery had been collected.
For the volunteers, it had been hard work but wholly rewarding and had given them the opportunity to show real concern for community wellbeing, whether that community is on the doorstep of the company or far away.
The review also indicates that 68% of sites have specific budgets allocated to Case Study community investment activities for the 2012 13 financial year.
Employees also participate in activities or hold community related roles outside the work environment.
The company is supportive of this broader community engagement, allowing employees time off during working hours as appropriate.
In efforts to further encourage volunteering among employees and to more broadly support our sites around the world in their community programmes, the group has developed a community investment strategy and policy this year.
In developing the policy, Johnson Matthey sought input from a number of its employees, charity partners, shareholders and other experts to ensure the policy and strategy are relevant and deliver value for all stakeholders.
The policy requires all sites to Making a Difference in Sri Lanka undertake a community investment Johnson Matthey was swift to react, along with the global community, when programme, measure its impact and allocate the tsunami hit the Indian Ocean on 26th December 2004.
The company a budget for activities in the year.
It also made an initial donation and also made a commitment to maintain a provides additional guidance to assist sites relationship with young victims of the tsunami by making a donation of 3,000 in developing their programmes.
The policy a year over five years to support the education of children who had been also sets out the groups commitment to orphaned.
This money was earmarked for their school fees, supplies and extra encouraging its employees and sites to classes, and was intended to help them to pursue their education.
support their local communities and In July 2011, Johnson Mattheys Chief Executive, Neil Carson, and his charities.
From the start of the 2012 13 family visited one of the schools the company supports in Sri Lanka.
He saw financial year, every employee will be at first hand the impact of the funding and met some of the children who are allowed up to two days paid leave a year sponsored, including one girl who is soon to become a doctor.
to undertake voluntary work in the local Having recently reached the final year of its original five year commitment, community or with a charitable organisation Johnson Mattheys Charities Committee agreed that the company should subject to business needs and the approval renew its commitment with a further five years of donations.
As a result, the of their manager.
Furthermore, the group will continue to support many of the same children, along with a handful company will match employees fundraising of new students, with the aim of increasing the scope of opportunities for their in aid of a registered charity up to the value future.
of 1,000 per employee per year, with a cap of 50,000 per annum for the group Read the full case study at www.
