52 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Social Social continued Recruitment and Retention We have also reviewed the careers section Building a Sustainable Workforce Johnson Matthey has effective recruitment of the companys website and continue to Recruiting the right people, developing processes to support the regular develop it with a focus on increasing them and providing an environment which requirement for high calibre employees.
awareness of the company and candidate motivates them to contribute and stay with Increasingly, we are recruiting graduates attraction.
There are also plans to expand the company is fundamental to the groups and qualified employees from beyond our our activities via key social media channels long term performance.
At Johnson traditional bases in Europe and North to further support our global recruitment Matthey, our employees are respected as America as we continue to develop a more activities.
the groups most valuable resource and internationally diverse workforce to support The average number of employees play a vital role in building a sustainable our global business.
has increased by 6% this year with business.
Their skills, qualities and Recruiting well qualified staff is vital to continued growth in average employee wellbeing underpin the companys support business development, particularly numbers in Asia up 11% and a 9% success.
in new and emerging markets such as in increase in North America.
As illustrated We recognise that our people and Asia, and this is achieved by appropriate in the pie chart below, Environmental culture are a particular strength and, manpower planning, local recruitment and Technologies remains the groups largest although the culture of an organisation is the encouragement of international and division with over 50% of employees.
In not easy to define, there is a distinctive cross divisional mobility.
It is the groups 2011 12, average employee numbers culture in Johnson Matthey, irrespective of policy to promote from within wherever increased across all divisions.
division, business, function or geographic possible and in 2011 12 35% of vacancies location.
Capturing and drawing on the were filled by internal candidates, supporting Total Employees by Division strengths of our culture will support the the retention of employees and developing Average headcount for 2011 12 groups future growth, particularly as it their careers.
During the During the year we have improved Corporate year work commenced to better articulate our online global recruitment systems 410 our company values and explore how they for external candidates, including the launch Fine Chemicals can be best used to develop and grow our 1,089 Environmental of a new application management system business and our people.
Technologies for recruitment into our UK businesses.
5,568 Precious Metal Products 2,847 Case Study Employer of Choice in Malaysia What do Apple Days, teddy bear sales and the acquisition of new work skills have in common?
The answer, from the Emission Control Technologies site at Nilai, Malaysia is that these are all elements in its community, welfare and training activities.
The sites proactive approach to community participation, together with its employee health and training programmes, have earned it the Employer of Choice 2011 award.
The awards were organised by the Malaysian Institute of Human Resources and Jobstreet.
Initiatives at the site have included donations of old office furniture to a school in a disadvantaged area and teddy bears to a local hospital.
Programmes to support employees wellbeing and development are equally prominent.
Activities related to healthier lifestyles include a health monitoring programme and Apple Days which are held twice a week to promote healthy eating.
A large capital investment project is underway at the Nilai site and as the day to day jobs of employees change, training will be given to enable them to develop their skill sets.
This mix of community involvement, concern for employee health and wellbeing and training to meet the needs of a changing industry makes Johnson Matthey an employer of choice in Malaysia.
Read the full case study at www.
53 Case Study Encouraging our Future Scientists Many Johnson Matthey sites have educational links with their local communities.
The Future Scientist Programme, developed by employees at Johnson Mattheys Billingham site in the north east of England has firmly grasped the issue of awakening pupil interest at an early stage in their secondary education to help direct children with talent towards a career in science.
The programme builds on the sites ten years of experience working with primary school children and takes the form of three lessons, including a practical session, all given by Johnson Matthey employees.
In all, 360 children at St Michaels, the local secondary school, have so far participated in the programme, with 12 teachers involved in the codevelopment and implementation.
The feedback from pupils and teachers has been extremely positive.
As one of the youngsters said, I had not thought about a job in industry before, but I am now.
Following on from the launch, a group from the Future Scientist Programme visited the House of Commons in the UK in January 2012 to explain the initiative and gain wider support for the programme amid an audience of industry professionals, Members of Parliament and government representatives.
Maintaining the quality of our employee The groups employee turnover over Average Number of People Employed relations is a priority for the company and the past five years is illustrated in the graph Average headcount 2011 12 Johnson Matthey is proud of the high level below and shows that voluntary employee Temporary of commitment and loyalty from its people.
Permanent contract We have a low voluntary staff turnover, Good performance in attendance rates Region employees employees Total 6.4% in 2011 12 2010 11 5.6%, with was maintained this year.
The average Europe 4,868 174 5,042 many employees staying with the company number of days lost per employee in North America 2,839 13 2,852 for their whole careers.
Total employee 2011 12 due to sickness absence was Asia 1,344 63 1,407 turnover increased this year from 8.5% 5.0 days 2010 11 5.2 days.
This represents Rest of World 611 2 613 to 11.7% as a result of the closure of our 2.0% of lost time per employee in the Total group 9,662 252 9,914 site in Brussels, redundancy programmes working year, a slight improvement on last in South Korea and more proactive year.
We continue to invest in sustainable performance management in a number health and wellness programmes to support of other countries.
The table below sets the longer term health, wellbeing and Annual Change in People Employed out employee turnover in 2011 12 by performance of our employees.
Net change between 31st March 2011 geographical region.
The employee turnover and 31st March 2012 figure is calculated by reference to the Training and Development Temporary total number of leavers during the year The knowledge, expertise and Permanent contract Total net expressed as a percentage of the average Region employees employees change contributions of our employees is what number of people employed during the drives the business forward and as a Europe 145 10 155 year.
The analysis does not include agency result, employee development is a key North America 271 -29 242 workers not directly employed by Johnson element of Johnson Mattheys strategy for Asia 107 28 135 Matthey.
Rest of World -8 2 -6 future growth.
We offer training and development programmes at career Total group 515 11 526 foundation and management levels which Employee Turnover seek to offer a broad understanding of the % groups businesses, give a strong base in 15 the companys strategy, culture and ethics Employee Turnover by Region and provide direct contact and networking 2011 12 Voluntary opportunities with peers and senior 10 Total Employee employee managers across international boundaries.
Region leavers turnover turnover Our programmes are aimed at developing Europe 592 12.2% 4.8% 5 our talented people, encouraging North America 226 8.0% 4.7% commitment to the company and building Asia 243 18.1% 14.9% high level skills and competences.
54 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Social Social continued We are continuing to increase our Training Days and Spend on Training focus on learning and development across 2011 12 the group and are expanding activities Number and resources on a global basis.
Our of days Total Spend per shifts training training permanent sustainability awareness training has been Total days per permanent spend employee rolled out in our major regions and we are Region shifts training employee thousands developing a more in depth induction Europe 15,140 3.1 2,021 415 programme which will be launched in North America 6,043 2.1 527 186 2012 13.
A number of new programmes Asia 4,543 3.4 490 365 have been introduced during the year, Rest of World 3,947 6.5 197 322 both across the group and within our Total group 29,673 3.1 3,235 335 businesses, underpinned by our key themes of acting globally, people and culture, sharing good practice and increasing business understanding.
We In 2012 13 a new development The figure below shows the total training have particularly increased our focus on programme aimed at senior leaders in spend per employee over the past five management and leadership development Johnson Matthey will be introduced which years.
The training spend does not include and on coaching and mentoring to support will provide world class development the cost of in house training or the cost of and develop our staff.
support to further build leadership capacity employees wages during training.
The groups Manufacturing Excellence in line with our strategy for growth.
programme, which was launched in Johnson Matthey is a strong Total Training Spend per Employee 2011 12, places particular emphasis on supporter of apprenticeship schemes as a developing our manufacturing leaders and valuable route for training and developing on providing our manufacturing staff with new talent.
Programmes operate at a 390 400 improvement tools to implement and number of our facilities around the world 346 335 327 embed a culture of lean manufacturing.
291 and during 2011 12 several of our 300 Specific training modules are being businesses have introduced or expanded developed to target key employee groups their schemes.
In the UK this year, the 200 and encourage the sharing of best practice company and its apprentices have received 100 across our global manufacturing operations.
recognition from government and other Talent reviews and succession organisations for their commitment and 0 planning are instrumental throughout our contribution to apprenticeship schemes.
1 2 2 2 2 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 businesses and we have robust review The table above sets out, on a total processes in place to support the and on a per employee basis, the days of 1 Calendar year.
international recognition and development 2 training and training spend during 2011 12.
of management talent within the group.
Case Study Continuing the Tradition of Apprentices Johnson Matthey has a long tradition of apprenticeships.
In fact, George Matthey, one of the founders of the company, started his career as an apprentice at the age of 13 back in the 19th century.
Today, programmes operate at many Johnson Matthey facilities around the world and focus on a range of skills and disciplines.
At our Zurich sales office in Switzerland, which runs an apprenticeship scheme to give three young people three years commercial training, apprentices work alongside the other 26 Johnson Matthey employees there and learn a wide range of office based skills.
Our Brimsdown refinery, in the London borough of Enfield, UK, reintroduced its apprenticeship programme in 2010 and provides training in engineering disciplines.
The site has since gone on to encourage other local businesses to do the same and has gained support and recognition for its efforts from several UK politicians.
Read the full case studies at www.
com sustainability... Employees and their families at our Nilai operations Volunteers from Johnson Mattheys Emission Control in Malaysia enjoy an environment, health and Technologies business in Royston, UK helped out at safety treasure hunt organised by the site.
the local train station to create floral displays for the towns Royston in Bloom event.
The level of training activity across the We encourage gender diversity at the early Encouraging communication between group has risen this year as indicated by career stage by working outside Johnson employees is becoming increasingly an increase in the number of days shifts Matthey to encourage women to enter important as Johnson Matthey continues training per employee which is up from 2.6 scientific and industrial fields.
The board to expand its range of business activities in 2010 11 to 3.1 in 2011 12.
Although is in the process of reviewing the broad and its geographic locations.
Encouraging the groups overall external training spend question of diversity within the group.
better communication between our people per employee has decreased this year, In accordance with applicable law, will help to promote exchange of ideas and spend per employee in Asia has more than Johnson Matthey bases all employment best practice, expedite research and trebled, reflecting the increased focus on related decisions on the principles of equal development and support the embedding employee development in the region.
Our employment opportunity and our policies of corporate culture.
Although our strong and continuing commitment to the in this area are presented on page 81 and company operates as separate businesses training and personal development of all the website.
within our three divisions, there are our employees is reflected in the fact that The groups gender balance was common activities and themes which run during 2011 12, approximately 690 internal unchanged this year at 78% male and throughout the group.
Our Manufacturing promotions were actioned.
This represents 22% female although the gender balance Excellence programme is one example 35% of all appointments made in the year.
of new recruits is improving at 75% male where success is highly dependent on and 25% female.
engagement and communication between employees.
More generally, the group Diversity recognises the value of such exchanges At Johnson Matthey we recognise the Employee Relations and and projects are underway to provide importance of diversity, including gender Communication enhanced internal systems that support diversity, and the benefits this can bring Effective two way communication with improved communication across our global to our organisation.
With regard to gender employees and, in particular, face to face operations.
diversity specifically, Johnson Matthey dialogue, is important in embedding Employee involvement is a critical faces challenges similar to those faced company culture, building commitment, factor in the development of an by other organisations in the chemical, celebrating achievements and increasing improvement culture.
Employees at all technology and manufacturing sectors.
understanding of the business, its levels are making a major contribution to To address these, we have policies and performance and strategy.
Communication the success of our many sustainability processes in place which are designed on matters of interest to employees is and lean manufacturing initiatives around to support gender diversity in employee exchanged through in house magazines, the world which provide an excellent recruitment, development and promotion attitude surveys, regular news bulletins, opportunity for staff engagement and and we are committed to ensuring that presentations to staff and team briefings.
women have an equal chance with men of Employees are also encouraged to access The company continues to support developing their careers within our business.
the groups corporate intranet, sustainability employee share ownership and employees intranet and websites.
have the opportunity to participate in share ownership plans, where practicable.
Under these plans, employees can buy shares in the company which are matched by a Employee Gender by Region company funded component.
Employees % in six countries are able to contribute to a company share ownership plan or a 401k 100 22% 20% approved savings investment plan.
23% 20% 28% 80 Through these ownership plans Johnson Mattheys current and former employees 60 collectively held 1.77% of the companys 77% 80% 80% 72% 78% 40 shares at 31st March 2012.
Female 20 0 Male Europe North Asia Rest of Group America World
