70 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Environment Environment Performance Summary 2012 2011 % change Energy consumption thousands GJ 4,726 4,749 Total global warming potential thousand tonnes CO equivalent 417 415 2 Total acid gas emissions tonnes SO equivalent 444 318 40 2 Total VOC emissions tonnes 189.8 185.7 2 Total waste tonnes 120,363 113,671 6 Total waste to landfill tonnes 10,708 6,165 74 3 Water consumption thousands m 2,201 2,076 6 Johnson Matthey has an impact on the environment in many ways: through the resources we use, the way we operate our processes and the action of our products and services on enhancing the environment for others.
A major part of our business involves Targets to improve environmental ISO 14001 applying our scientific knowledge and performance are a key part of our When launched in December 2007, the expertise to turn natural resources into Sustainability 2017 Vision.
The group aims groups Sustainability 2017 Vision included more valuable products for our customers.
to cut its carbon intensity by half, achieve a target to achieve ISO 14001 certification Natural resource costs are likely to increase zero waste to landfill and halve the key at all major manufacturing sites and by in future as they are depleted or become resources per unit of output consumed by the end of 2010 11 all but one of our sites harder to access.
In order to meet these aspirations, had achieved certification.
This year, the and Manufacturing Excellence programmes long term environmental improvement final site has achieved its certification and, both focus on increasing the efficiency with plans and performance indicators have as detailed previously on page 15, this which we use these valuable resources been established.
target has now been removed from the and will generate cost savings for our Sustainability 2017 Vision.
We still believe Read more on Sustainability 2017 business today and help to conserve that ISO 14001 is an important standard on pages 13 to 15 and at resources for the future.
that should be maintained by our sites and www.
In addition, as leading recyclers and achieved by new or acquired facilities Read more on our progress towards refiners of precious metals, we draw on within two years of beneficial operation or Sustainability 2017 on page 17. our expertise in this area to enhance the acquisition.
As a result, this requirement resource efficiency of our own operations has now been included in our environment, Read more on the environmental and provide improved solutions and health and safety EHS management benefits of our products at services for our customers.
com sustainability Many of the groups products have a products.
positive impact on the environment including Environmental Performance emission control catalysts for vehicles, in 2011 12 process catalysts that improve resource Managing Performance and Johnson Matthey undertakes a efficiency and abatement systems which Driving Continuous Improvement comprehensive annual review of group mitigate the production of greenhouse The group has robust policies, systems environmental performance which covers gases.
A significant proportion of our R&D and processes in place to manage its all manufacturing and research and efforts are directed towards developing environmental performance and to drive development facilities.
Data is presented the next generation of environmentally continuous improvement.
for a five year period for nine key beneficial products.
environmental indicators and data is Read more in the Governance section Read more about how we use life presented on a financial year unless cycle assessment tools to better on pages 80 and 81. otherwise stated.
understand and improve the Business expansion has had a direct Read full details of our policies sustainability credentials of our and strategies to manage and impact on our environmental performance products on page 29. this year with increases in eight of the nine drive performance at Read more on our product stewardship www.
key environmental indicators we report.
The increases in our emissions and use of systems in the Health and Safety section on pages 64 to 66. resources have arisen as a result of a full years data in 2011 12 from sites acquired during 2010 11 Process Technologies Savannah, USA site and Fine Chemicals.. Operations at Johnson Matthey Colour Technologies Developing catalysts and components for fuel cells, headquarters in Maastricht, the Netherlands.
a technology for generating low carbon power.
Riverside facility in Conshohocken, USA, Global Warming Potential Johnson Matthey does not own the recently commissioned facilities reaching We report greenhouse gas emissions from ships, trucks or aircraft used to transport full production and from incremental process and energy use and convert the its products and so emissions from increases across the groups manufacturing total group energy use to tonnes of carbon transportation are not included in the data.
operations as demand for our products dioxide CO equivalent using national The majority of our products are high value 2 increased.
Despite these absolute increases, and regional conversion factors for each but low volume and so the carbon produced six out of nine of our environmental metrics emissions source as appropriate.
The by transportation is low relative to other increased at a rate below the rate of groups total global warming potential GWP carbon intensity indicators, for example growth of the groups sales excluding the is based on our Scope 1 and Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions.
value of precious metals sales as emissions as defined by the greenhouse We also report indicative data for our illustrated in the graphs and tables in this gas protocol www.
CO emissions from travel by employees 2 section of the report.
There were no In 2011 12 the groups GWP on company business and collect data significant fines and no non-monetary increased only very slightly by less than 1% from all sites.
While we recognise this data sanctions for non-compliance with to 417,407 tonnes CO equivalent, which does not represent all emissions as a result 2 environmental laws and regulations in represents a good result given the inclusion of company travel, it does provide an the year.
of a full years data from the Savannah and indicator and year on year comparator.
Riverside sites and increased demand for In 2011 12 CO emissions from air travel 2 our products.
Of this years total, 38% by employees on company business were Energy Consumption resulted from Scope 1 emissions generated 6,263 tonnes and emissions from company The groups total energy consumption was by the direct burning of fuel, predominantly car travel were 1,569 tonnes.
We continue essentially flat this year at 4.7 million GJ natural gas and 62% from Scope 2 to develop our work on assessing the but reduced by 15% relative to sales emissions generated by the purchase of carbon footprint of our business, including benefiting from programmes at our sites to grid electricity.
The group also made good ways to expand the level of information we improve energy efficiency.
Of the energy progress towards its Sustainability 2017 collect on our indirect carbon emissions, consumed in 2011 12, 65% arose from target to halve carbon intensity in 2011 12 to include emissions from third party direct sources i. e. various fuels and natural with a year on year reduction of 14% in transportation of our products by air, sea, gas combusted by the group and 35% GWP relative to sales.
from consumed electricity generated by a supplier.
The global energy bill for 2011 12 was 54.7 million, an increase of 3.0 million compared with 2010 11, reflecting higher global energy costs.
GJ 000 GJ million Tonnes CO Tonnes 2 sales equivalent million sales 72 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Environment Environment continued The UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment Compared with last year, total NOx In terms of other waste streams, Ongoing compliance with the UK emissions were up 44% at 566 tonnes and 5,251 tonnes of waste were sent for governments Carbon Reduction increased 23% relative to sales.
The incineration up 9%, 16,023 tonnes were Commitment CRC does not present a increase on 2010 11 was due to higher sent for recovery down 11% and 90,677 material issue for Johnson Matthey, given production rates at several facilities, a full tonnes of waste were sent for treatment that the majority of our UK facilities are year of data from Savannah and Riverside and disposal by third party waste service exempt from the process as they are and from more robust data this year from providers up 6%.
already being regulated under existing three sites that reviewed their data climate change levy agreements that drive collection methods for combustion Packaging Wastes year on year energy efficiency and generated NOx and, as a result, have Johnson Matthey collects and quantifies reduction programmes.
Our facilities in the reported more accurate values.
the different types of packaging waste UK account for 31% of the groups total The groups total SO emissions 2 recycled by our sites as shown in the GWP Scope 1 and 2 emissions and of the increased by 4.5 tonnes or 10% to table below: emissions from these facilities, over 95% 47.5 tonnes but fell 6% relative to sales.
are exempt from the CRC process.
In the Our absolute emissions were impacted by Waste Recycled 2011 12 CRC Annual Report, to be a 6.2 tonne increase in SO emissions from 2 submitted to the Environment Agency our Brimsdown, UK site which was partly 2012 2011 Waste Waste % during July 2012, Johnson Matthey Plc will due to increased use of its combined heat Packaging type tonnes tonnes change report energy use data for its four UK and power CHP generator.
Emissions of Steel 2,314 1,847 25 subsidiaries that are not covered by the volatile organic compounds VOCs were Paper 704 258 173 groups exemption.
This increase is mainly as a result EU Emission Trading Scheme EU ETS of a full years data from Savannah and We are closely monitoring the potential Riverside which accounted for an additional impacts and opportunities for our business Good progress has been made this 27 tonnes of halogenated VOCs.
However, arising from the Phase III of EU ETS which year with many sites recycling a greater overall, our emissions of halogenated will be implemented in 2013. proportion of packaging waste as a result of VOCs reduced this year.
initiatives to increase awareness of recycling.
At our Clitheroe, UK site, its packaging Other Emissions Waste waste this year has included a greater Emissions from our operations are The group generated 120,363 tonnes of proportion of plastic and wood, both of generated from a number of sources waste during the year, an increase of 6% which have been recycled, thus contributing including combustion processes, materials in absolute terms but 10% lower relative to improvement in the overall group figures handling and chemical reactions and are to sales.
Waste to landfill increased for these two materials.
typically licensed by local regulations.
All significantly in the year, up 4,543 tonnes Johnson Matthey complies with sites monitor emissions to ensure or 74% to 10,708 tonnes.
Achieving zero international agreements, regulations and compliance with these regulations and set waste to landfill by 2017 is one of the policies that govern the international their own absolute targets aimed at groups Sustainability 2017 targets and shipment of waste.
During 2011 12, reducing significant emissions as part of initiatives across our sites to reduce waste 4,293 tonnes of waste 2010 11 4,295 their local environment, health and safety to landfill were impacted this year by the tonnes were moved between countries, improvement plans.
generation of waste produced from predominately for the reclamation and In 2011 12, our total emissions of construction projects to expand operations reuse of metal from spent catalysts at our acid gases have increased by 40% to at a number of our sites.
444 tonnes sulphur dioxide SO 2 equivalent and were up 19% relative to sales.
This was mainly due to an increase in emissions of oxides of nitrogen NOx from our operations.
Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes SO equivalent million sales million sales 2.. Our Colour Technologies business manufactures black obscuration Manufacturing operations at our Catalysts and Chemicals business enamels which are used in automotive glass applications.
West Deptford site in the USA.
Case Study Reducing Waste to Landfill at Clitheroe One of Johnson Mattheys sustainability targets is to eliminate waste to landfill by 2017.
On the Clitheroe site in the north of England, which makes catalysts, good progress had been made on reducing hazardous waste despatched to landfill, but the site was concerned that the level of non-hazardous waste sent to landfill would remain stagnant at around 200 tonnes.
Was an attitude of any bin will do holding back efforts to reduce waste?
Of the waste sent to landfill, around 67% was non-hazardous, so this was set as a priority area.
In 2011 the site met with a number of waste contractors to determine how it could move towards increased recycling and achieve a significant reduction in waste to landfill.
An ambitious target was set for 2011 12: only 100 tonnes of non-hazardous waste should be sent to landfill, just half of the 2008 figure.
The new waste collection scheme has been implemented enthusiastically and the actual figure achieved came in below the target at 78 tonnes.
This is a 40% reduction on 2010 11 and led to cost savings of 7,500 for the site.
Read the full case study at www.
Water Consumption use at our Brimsdown, UK site where very as a result of more accurate reporting from During the year, water consumption dry weather reduced the scope for water one of our sites.
Of the total effluent increased by 6% in absolute terms but harvesting.
Of the total water used by the produced, 82% was discharged to local was down 10% relative to sales compared group, 91% was supplied by local authority sewers after treatment and in with 2010 11.
Most of this increase is from municipal water authorities, 6% was drawn accordance with local discharge consent sites reporting a full year of data for the first from boreholes and 3% was taken from agreements and 18% was discharged to time and from an increase in mains water local water courses.
Total effluent decreased water courses after treatment and within 3 by 18% this year to 1.4 million m, mainly quality limits set by local water authorities.
Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes million sales million sales
