Corporate Responsibility 20% in 2012, compared with 2011.
Our Health and Safety awareness programme encourages employees to report incidents and injuries Corporate and we have seen a 16% increase in reported safety incidents from 254 in 2011 to 295 in 2012.
This gure may continue to increase as we develop a stronger safety culture at our operations.
Responsibility The 2011 gure has been restated to include retrospective reporting of injuries by our employees.
This section reports significant activities in 2012 to address our Environment most material corporate responsibility CR issues.
There is We carefully manage our environmental impacts by using energy more information about our overall approach to managing CR and water efficiently, by protecting biodiversity, and by reducing on our website at www.
greenhouse gas emissions GHG, waste and emissions to air.
Performance against our CR KPIs is reported on pages 18 and 19.
Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions Health & safety In 2012, we continued to prepare for the Kazakhstan GHG emissions In 2012, we continued to standardise our approach to health and trading scheme by developing a Group-wide energy efficiency safety and improve management systems.
Our long-term goal is programme.
In September 2012, we nalised energy saving plans for zero fatalities, which is a challenging target but one we are the smelters and captive power plants that the scheme will impact.
The Group has agreed to take part in an additional Government initiative to develop a nationwide energy efficiency plan.
As part We are focusing on building a safety culture by changing ways of of this initiative, Kazakhmys will seek to reduce its energy use by working and improving risk awareness throughout our business.
A newly formed energy efficiency At the heart of this is a long-term, Group-wide education and training and investment team is overseeing this effort, working with external scheme, launched in March 2012.
We also introduced initiatives to contractors on the assessment of current energy use.
improve procedures in six areas: roof collapse, contact with energy sources, ventilation, personal protective equipment, training and In 2012, energy consumed within the Groups operations was skills, and pedestrian safety.
We continued to implement 36 Group 6,255 GWh, 8% less than in the prior year.
In the Mining Division, health and safety standards and to make significant investment in there was a 12% reduction in energy use to 4,580 GWh compared modernising our equipment to ensure our employees are provided with 5,218 GWh in 2011.
The reduction reects initial energy saving with a safe working environment.
efforts such as the installation of new equipment as well as improved measurement and increased awareness of electricity consumption In 2012 we completed the first phase of our work with external levels, as we prepare for the implementation of the energy efficiency consultants DuPont who helped us to develop and implement core programme which is currently being developed.
In the Power Health and Safety standards and procedures.
We acknowledge a lot Division, internal energy use at Ekibastuz GRES-1 increased by of work is still required to bring our approach to international best 13% to 796 GWh, reecting increased external demand and the practice level and will continue working closely with DuPont in 2013. commissioning of a new turbine, while power use at our captive power stations which supply the Mining Division remained broadly The Board deeply regrets that 15 employees and four contractors in line with the prior year at 879 GWh.
died at our managed mining operations in 2012.
Rock falls were the most common cause.
In response, we continue to change our Power produced at Ekibastuz GRES-1 is sold to third parties and is working practices and introduce new equipment and roof safety not used in copper production.
Following the increased demand for technologies to improve our performance.
electricity in Kazakhstan and the commissioning of the new turbine at Regrettably we did not meet our goal to reduce total safety incidents Ekibastuz GRES-1, both total gross power generated and sold to third including fatalities, serious and minor injuries and micro traumas by parties increased to 21,605 GWh and 16,466 GWh, respectively.
This Fatalities by cause CO emissions 2 Rock fall Mining Division 1 7 10% 1 Contact with machine parts Power Division 90% Explosives handling 3 Electrocution Hazardous substances 2 Traffic accident 1 1 1 Self-moving equipment 2 Work at height Other 48 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements increase resulted in a 15% rise in GHG emissions for the Group Employees compared to 2011, from 24.2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide A skilled workforce is critical to the future of our business.
equivalent CO e to 27.8 million tonnes.
Of these emissions, We are committed to providing training and development 2 2.7 million tonnes were generated by the Mining Division and opportunities to all our employees, incentivising them to stay 25.1 million tonnes by the Power Division.
and progress within the business.
We are aligning the way we report GHG emissions with the UK In 2012, 100 of our most promising employees completed our Governments draft GHG reporting regulations, for example by High Potential programme designed to ensure a succession of considering measures of GHG intensity to reect the very different future senior management from within the Group.
The participants activities of our Mining and Power Divisions.
We look forward to completed three tailored training modules, site visits and individual the publication of the final regulations and guidance.
mentoring sessions with senior managers, which provided them with in-depth understanding of our core business activities.
Emissions to air Our operations produce substantial amounts of sulphur dioxide We also made further progress in establishing an anti-bribery and SO, nitrogen oxides NO, arsenic, ash and dust.
anti-corruption culture by introducing an e-learning module and 2 X rolled out a Speak Up helpline for people to report concerns about We seek to maintain low levels of SO by capturing emissions 2 unethical practices, and promoted uptake of the helpline through from our smelters in Balkhash and Zhezkazgan and transforming face-to-face meetings, newsletters and posters.
Most reports to the emissions into sulphuric acid.
In 2012, SO emissions for the 2 the helpline to date 39% were about unfair treatment at work Group totalled 258,877 tonnes, broadly in line with 261,587 tonnes and 9% were concerns about dishonest behaviour.
At 103,307 tonnes, the Mining Division produced 16% fewer SO emissions in 2012 than the year before, largely We seek to employ the majority of our workforce in Kazakhstan 2 driven by uninterrupted operations at our Balkhash sulphuric acid locally, using international expertise where necessary to facilitate production plant, which experienced some downtime in 2011, a transfer of skills and best practice in the longer term.
In 2012, as well as slightly lower copper output.
99% of employees within the Mining Division were Kazakhstani nationals.
We are pleased to report a continued high level of gender The launch of the new turbine at Ekibastuz GRES-1 and subsequent diversity for the mining industry 36% of our employees in 2012 increase in power generation resulted in higher NO emissions X were women.
for our Power Division, where we produced 55,246 tonnes of NO X compared to 46,917 tonnes in the prior year.
NO output for the X Communities Mining Division remained broadly in line with the prior year at We contribute to Kazakhstan and its communities by creating jobs, 1,378 tonnes.
paying taxes, investing in community infrastructure, using local We achieved a 16% reduction in ash emissions for the Group in 2012, suppliers and assisting the development of small and medium-sized to 121,983 tonnes.
The Mining Division produced 3,464 tonnes of ash businesses in the regions.
We respect the rights of anyone that comes in 2012, compared to 4,025 tonnes in 2011.
The reduction is due to into contact with our business, for instance by ensuring good working the use of better quality coal at the boilers in Zhezkazgan, as well as conditions and consulting with communities.
installation of new equipment at some of our assets.
At 118,519 tonnes, Our focus in 2012 was on developing diverse economies in the the Power Division achieved a 16% reduction in ash emissions despite communities that rely most heavily on our business, in Zhezkazgan a 13% increase in power generated at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
This and Balkhash, as well as strengthening our relationships with local reduction is due to the installation of battery emulsiers at our captive providers of goods and services.
In 2012, 67% of our goods and power plants, as well as the installation of the third electrostatic services were sourced locally, which amounted to $1.5 billion, precipitator at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
By 2016, all eight turbines at the compared to 50% and $785 million in 2011.
We support local power station will be tted with electrostatic precipitators, which suppliers and small and medium-sized businesses through a range should reduce total ash emissions vefold compared to 2009 levels, of initiatives, including the annual forum Made in KZ and regional prior to the installation of the first precipitator.
business associations through which local companies can nd new customers and revenue streams, in addition to Kazakhmys.
Water In 2012, the Group used 802,230 megalitres of fresh water, In July 2012 our efforts were recognised with a national award in addition to 2.5 million megalitres of recycled process water.
Of the freshwater withdrawn, just 7.4% came from the same The Mining Divisions social investment decreased to $52 million water source used by the local community.
Our review of our social activities continued and in 2012 we Waste commenced the transfer of social facilities the Group inherited with New legislation to reduce waste and control its disposal was its operations.
Some of the approximately 200 social assets were introduced in 2012, requiring companies to introduce 10 year signed over in 2012, and the remaining assets will be transferred waste management plans.
In response, we developed guidance in the next few years, mainly into Government ownership.
for our sites on implementing waste management systems.
In 2013, different areas of our business will introduce waste management programmes with the aim of reusing and recycling more waste, as well as disposing of it responsibly.
