24 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Corporate responsibility Enabling our organisation and people to have a positive impact on society Our people are at the centre of everything Community We believe the only way wedoand that includes the way that we meet Our community strategy is based upon various strands ourcorporate responsibilities.
Through focusing to secure the highest level of engagement and support, both at a Group-wide ourCorporate Responsibility CR strategy on and local level.
The KCOM Group works with a national community, people and sustainability, we enable of commitment from our charity partner and this is chosen by our people voting our people to have a positive impact onthe on a shortlist of UK registered national charities.
employees is to make sure societies in which we operate.
By acting responsibly in how we do business, we will meet our ambition to our Group is one of which In 2011 12, we raised 56,202 for Help the passionately pursue better ways to connect people Hospices, the most money thatthe Group has and provide an inspiring customer experience.
everraised through its charity partnership scheme, a result that is testimony to the commitment ofour We recognise that our contribution is crucial for people.
This amount was achieved by our people asustainable future and we work hard to be a organising and participating in a series of fundraising responsible business.
This is evidenced in the range Turn to page 28 for a complete events and activities supported through our network of community and sustainability awards we have analysis of our CR targets and of volunteer charity champions.
This resulted in received this year, including Green Company of the performance for 2011 12.
Help the Hospices presenting the Group with an Year and Business Community awards.
It is reflected award for special recognition of a new corporate also in the way that our employees support our partner.
Fundraising activities included participation community and sustainability programmes, going in the London to Paris cycle ride, marathons, swims the extra mile to demonstrate the Groups across the Humber Estuary, running, walks and team-minded, flexible, innovative, open and various dress down days and cake bakes.
The funds considerate and inspiring values inaction.
we haveraised will go towards supporting hospices across their national network.
During the year a CR Steering Group was set up with representation from each of our three main In 2012 13 and 2013 14, the Group is partnering areas of focus across the Group.
The Group meets withSparks, a charity dedicated to funding pioneering monthly and reports three times a year to the Board.
research into conditions affecting babies, children Responsibility for CR at Board level is held by our andmums-to-be.
We see a match in values between Executive Chairman, Bill Halbert.
the KCOM Group and Sparks in their dedication and commitment to pioneering innovation through medical research.
Their focus is on improving the quality of life for children andfamilies affected by serious illness or disability, whilst seeking ways to better diagnose, treat and prevent these conditions inthe future.
The medical breakthroughs they make possible will deliver a difference to thousands of women, Our CR strategy has three main areas of focus Community People Sustainability The participation of our people isvital Our people are the key to our success.
Being a responsible business means tothesuccess of our communityrelations Theyare proud of our heritage, celebrate acknowledging our social responsibilities and programme andwe seek toengage and ourshared achievements and are confident doing the right things, inthe right way, all involve people across thebreadth of our about our future success.
Webelieve the time, sothat being responsible becomes community relationsactivities.
responsible behaviour begins with our ourway of life.
Managing our impact onthe people and that this trust in our people is environment isan obvious example of this.
akey factor in ouremployer brand.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 25 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 children and families around the world.
The KCOM The Groups Wakefield office, for example, has become Hull Childrens University Group is delighted to be able to give its support a corporate partner of Hunslet Moor, an inner city We continue to support Hull Childrens University, tosuch a worthwhile charity.
Our people are working with through the use of our city centre learning base the head teacher and her team to facilitate and deliver aswell as delivery of its programme of modules.
From this year, we are extending our Group charity a range of fundraising and volunteering activities.
partner relationship from one to two years.
This Hull Childrens University was established in 1997. decision was taken because of the time, effort and As one of the largest employers in the Hull and It aims to broaden a young persons outlook and expense spent by both parties in the first year in EastYorkshire region, our employees are recognised experience of life.
It aims also to raise levels of getting a partnership up and running effectively.
increasingly by local businesses, partners and charity achievement and to develop a young persons groups for their commitment to helping make loveand thirst for learning.
In the past 12 months our quarterly grants scheme theregion a better place to live, work and visit.
awarded a total of 3,600 to our people to help CatZero them pursue and support their chosen community KC in the Community We continue to support CatZero as a business and charitable projects.
We have helped a range During 2011 12 employees in Hull and East partner.
CatZero has delivered some tremendous ofprojects including funding the purchase of Yorkshire donated over 2,000 hours to community once-in-a-lifetime opportunities and results for the equipment for schools, community groups and volunteering and supporting regional charities, regions young people who are not in education, youth clubs, to enabling day trips to the zoo for community groups, schools and sports clubs.
Through a Mencap and swimming coaching days.
We support specialist training programme, the charity has also the National History Museum and arange of Our KC in the Community programme won the coveted reached hundreds of young people in Hull, other charitable causes including Movember for Business Community Award in the 2011 Yorkshire transforming their lives and future prospects.
Prostate Cancer, the Jeans for Genes appeal, Post Excellence in Business Awards.
The awards are BritishHeart Foundation and Sport Relief.
one ofthe leading business events in Yorkshire and KC Invest celebrate the best examples of innovation and During 2011, the Group created KC Invest, an The KCOM Group has become recently a patron of enterprise across the region.
The fact that the KC investment fund of 300,000 to provide start-up thePrinces Trust.
The Trust is the UKs leading youth programme was shortlisted against and selected and growth financing for businesses in the digital charity, offering a range of opportunities including above social enterprises whose purpose is to serve and technology sectors.
To date, 12 businesses have training, personal development, business start up the community is testament to the strength and benefitted from this fund.
We committed also to support, mentoring and advice to young people who focus of our people and the Groups ability to donate 60,000 over three years to the Hull Youth need it most and we look forward to developing this besocially responsible as well as profitable.
Enterprise bank, offering practical support and relationship over the coming months.
grants of up to 1,000 for young people who need Business in the Community BITC finance to help set up or develop their businesses.
It Volunteering and community projects Our KC brand partners with a BITC employee means that even more enterprising 13 to 21-year-olds Volunteering and community work is central to the volunteering programme, Hull & Humber KC Cares, can now gain funding to buy the business equipment Groups CR programme and our people get involved which is part of a network of more than 350 partner and services they need to get started.
in many diverse and varied projects across the year.
It is a business-led The Group has also formal partnerships in place programme that engages employees in their with schools, charities and projects across the UK.
communities through volunteering to address varying social issues, with afocus on education, employability, economic renewal and theenvironment.
Id like to thank all the employees at KCOM Group forsupporting Help the Hospices the funds you have raised have been fantastic.
Without the generous support of companies and staff like yours we would notbe able to continue our work in supporting hospice and palliative care throughout the UK.
Nisha HelptheHospices 26 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Corporate responsibility continued Attracting and developing the leaders oftoday and tomorrow Health, safety and wellbeing culture.
Each month focuses on a new topic.
Basic Our people The health, safety and wellbeing of our people is information is provided to employees to increase Our people are crucial to the success of the Group ofparamount importance to the Group.
We pride their knowledge and awareness of health and and we support wholeheartedly the principles of ourselves on our performance in these areas and wellbeing related issues, to encourage and support equality, diversity and inclusiveness in employment.
the people focused initiatives we have in place.
them to make positive changes.
We empower our leaders to attract, retain and motivate highly talented people from a wide variety The KCOM Groups health and safety strategy, Screening sessions of backgrounds, cultures and mindsets.
andasupporting annual health and safety plan, To support employees with their physical health, isagreed by senior management and progress theGroup provides the opportunity for all employees An inclusive programme against this plan is reported to the Board on to attend a free health and wellbeing screening To enable us to achieve our long-term vision, aquarterly basis.
Over the course of the year, session.
These sessions are now in their fifth year of apeople strategy steering group was established wehavecontinued to embed, audit and improve operation.
The percentage of people attending the toensure that we attract, develop, recognise and our BS OHSAS 18001 management system.
Groups wellbeing sessions has increased each year, retain the right people.
Our strategy aims to create with over 30 per cent of employees attending a a workplace in which every employee is recognised During the year, there were no fatalities or health session this year.
Sessions consist of checks on blood as an individual and inspired to deliver exceptional and safety enforcement notices.
We experienced pressure, cholesterol, weight, body fat percentage, business performance.
It is built around our Group three RIDDOR incidents.
Under RIDDOR regulations lung age and diabetes as well as adviceon how to values and long-term vision, enabling every individual these incidents were not classed as major injuries make positive lifestyle changes.
to contribute to creating excellence together.
but over three day injuries.
Fitness and wellbeing network Investors in People The Group recorded 61 working days lost during During the year, the Group has created a new In 2012 the Group was re-accredited with Investors theyear as a result of health and safety incidents.
fitness and wellbeing network to promote ways for in People status for the next three years.
Investors in 48of these days related to an off-site incident employees to get fit and active through local clubs, People is central to helping our people become even outside of the Groups control.
training sessions and sporting activities such as more customer focused, enabling us to achieve our cycling, swimming, walking and running.
Employees long-term vision and deliver inspiring customer One of the five strategic aims reflected in the health are able to use the network to share information experiences.
and safety strategy and plan is to improve health with each other and ultimately extend the Groups in the workplace which supports both the EU health and safety strategy beyond working hours.
Employee turnover and sickness andUK Government health and safety strategies.
Year on year, employee turnover has reduced Itsupports also the Groups internal people strategy.
Cycle2work scheme further to 10.3 per cent for 2011 12.
Sickness To achieve this, the Group is encouraging the wellbeing We have continued to offer a cycle2work scheme absence has reduced also, decreasing by over of its people in a variety of ways as we recognise aspart of our flexible benefits package.
that this is a means to help boost productivity, allows people to make savings on the purchase engagement and overall fitness levels.
ofabike and accessories through income tax andNational Insurance contribution savings.
Calendar of campaigns 2011 12 Aswell asencouraging a healthier lifestyle, the The KCOM Groups health and wellbeing calendar scheme forms part of the Groups environmental ofcampaigns has been published for the third management strategy by encouraging people to yearrunning.
This has been developed to support reduce their CO emissions.
We have seen a year 2 our aim to create a positive health and wellbeing onyear increase in employees taking up this offer.
Our people strategy In 2010 we launched our people strategy which isa three-year programme of work aimed at developing our people to help them fulfil their full potential.
During the year there were two main workstreams: In 2012 13 there will be three additional workstreams added: Valuedriven culture Leadership development Additional workstreams This workstream has been closely linked with This workstream hasconsisted of comprehensive 1. identify and develop our talented individuals: the development of the Group vision and has leadership development training for all ofour 2. re view our recruitment, reward and performance led tovalues and behaviours being defined people managers across the Group: from management strategies to ensure that we are andcommunicated across the Group which one-to-one coaching for the senior management recruiting and retaining the right individuals to weexpect all our employees to demonstrate.
team through to workshops and training for meet the needs of our business: and Wehave launched a series of workshops across people managers atalllevels.
3. consider the future of work and how future the Group entitled It Starts With Me.
These technological and cultural developments will have been attended by 1,200 employees and impact upon the way in which our people work.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 27 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Mental health and wellbeing micro-site Sustainability Emplo yee participation In 2011 12, we have developed a mental health in wellbeing sessions % Management and wellbeing micro-site to provide all employees Our Risk team continues to ensure that the Group with a source of information and support.
The site manages its responsibilities effectively through its covers key areas including mental health awareness, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
work life balance, tools and information and Toensure delivery of the annual environmental 31 support at work.
programme, the Environmental Operations team now meets monthly to ensure increased focus.
Employee Assistance Programme Leadership development Improved reporting has allowed the team to An independent, free and completely confidential attendees to date monitor more closely changes and trends in telephone advice service is provided forall employees environmental performance.
giving them access to fully qualified counsellors and practitioners.
This service provides employees with External audits have continued to take place with support for both personal and work related issues.
126 no significant issues being raised.
The Group has had no pollution incidents or enforcement notices.
Awards and recognition Our Groups health, safety and wellbeing strategy It Starts with Me Waste has achieved national recognition.
The Group has attendees to date This year we have again successfully reduced the been shortlisted in the national Employee Benefits amount of waste going to landfill at the same time Awards for the Most effective healthcare and as increasing the proportion of waste we have wellbeing strategy for employers with more than recycled, continuing the trend of recent years.
Thishas been due in part to improved waste 1,200 management processes which have allowed us to Our Groups health and safety performance was mix more waste together, making it easier for our recognised also in the regional Humberside employees to recycle.
We have carried out also a Occupational Health and Safety Group awards, series of waste audits to identify individual waste where the KCOM Group was selected as winner streams in order toselect the most appropriate ofthe award for Significant Health and Safety recycling channel.
FTSE4Good The Group continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Under the FTSE4Good Environmental, Social and Governance ESG ratings assessment for 2011, the Group achieved good results with particularly high scores for its environmental management.
Every year I participate in the health and wellbeing screening sessions.
Theseare reallyhelpful as they could be used as an early indicator for any potential health problems which gives me peace ofmind.
Simone Kcom 28 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Corporate responsibility continued We are finalising currently arrangements to introduce customers can be confident that products and Sustainability continued a managed print service within our offices.
This will services purchased through our Group have been Energy enable more effective print management and reduce produced and delivered responsibly and lawfully in As a communications provider, we have an unnecessary printing.
We expect that this will have decent working conditions without exploiting the ongoingfocus on managing effectively our a positive impact on the amount of paper used in people who make or deliver them and without powerconsumption.
A great deal of effort has gone in to implementing Travel Compliance with the Code is achieved through power-down software for all relevant equipment Business travel by our employees has increased selfevaluation.
Where necessary we undertake across the Group.
by13.95 per cent in the year, which is consistent independent inspections and audits to ensure with the increased geographical diversity of our thatour suppliers and partners are adhering to Work has been undertaken also to optimise customer base.
Our focus on winning business with theCodes principles and that we are all working equipment in our data centres in order to reduce multi-site organisations means our employees now together under the same responsible values.
energy consumption as much as possible.
travel more regularly for customer meetings.
The previous two years had seen significant decreases For more information on our CR activitycontact In our telephone exchanges, work is underway to inthe amount of travelling undertaken across the Cathy Phillips, .
upgrade the power systems supporting our Group: therefore despite the increase in the year, traditional operations with more energy efficient the amount of travelling taking place is still 32.51 systems.
Early trials have realised already excellent per cent lower than in 2009 10, reflecting the energy savings and this will continue to evolve efforts made by our employees to conduct internal through the coming year.
meetings online or by telephone conference whenever possible.
Despite the above initiatives, the Group saw an overall increase in its electricity consumption.
This is due to Supplier and Partner Code of Conduct both the increased accuracy of recording consumption This year we introduced our Supplier and Partner through our automatic meter readers, now covering Code of Conduct as our way of ensuring that our more than 90 per cent of our estate, together with the suppliers support our principles and commitment to inclusion of additional data centre information.
It means our Our CR targets and achievements Area of focus Target 2011 12 Achieved Actual 2011 12 Actual 2010 11 Target 2012 13 To maintain To maintain 10.95% 17.49% Total CO 2010 11levels 2011 12levels 2 from 2010 11 from 2009 10 emissions To maintain To maintain 2011 12 levels CO arising 2 13.95% -40.77% 2010 11levels through promotion and from business from 2010 11 from 2009 10 useof our internal travel communication technology To maintain To reduce landfill by 5% 2010 11levels -55.38% -2.58% from2011 12 levels Landfill from 2010 11 from 2009 10 To increase proportion To increase proportion Proportion 42.62% 6.93% recycled by 3% on recycled by 5% on ofwaste from 2010 11 from 2009 10 2010 11 levels 2011 12levels recycled To maintain To reduce paper usedby Printer and 13.09% -24.49% 2010 11levels 10% from 2011 12 levels photocopier from 2010 11 from 2009 10 through introduction of paperused managed print All of our carbon emissions data is audited by our internal audit team.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 29 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Governance Committed to high standards and responsive to stakeholder expectations The KCOM Group takes full account of the principles of good governance and in particular the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Weare dedicated to reporting fully and transparently each year in our report and accounts on our methods of corporate governance and on whether we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In this section 30 Our Board 32 Corporate governance 38 Other disclosures 41 Remuneration report
