Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Corporate Responsibility Our corporate responsibility mission is to deliver a brighter future for our communities.
Centre: Paul Shefeld Chief Executive Chairman Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee Left: Haydn Mursell Group Finance Director Right: Alan Smith Group Corporate Communications Director and responsible for CR reporting The 10,000 people employed by Kier really emerging markets.
In parallel with this Throughout the year, Kier employees from make a very positive impact on peoples however, is our need to maintain a solid all parts of the Group have consistently lives and together we are working towards CR track record if we are to ful l our plans demonstrated their ability to make a real our CR mission of delivering a brighter to grow the business in the medium term.
difference by getting involved in local future for our communities.
Todays leading companies are closely community projects and fundraising scrutinised in relation to their performance activities.
It is reassuring to know that a As a major force in our industry it is on corporate responsibility issues and genuine enthusiasm and commitment to important that we are seen to lead by their credibility is tested.
Indeed, this is an bring about change for the better exists example and we are acutely aware of essential element for any business looking within our business and I am proud of the the need to address all aspects of our to win work of any signi cance from todays contribution our employees make, which I business behaviour in the course of leading clients.
am con dent will continue in future.
Our people, and the environments in which we work and live, We know that we cannot be complacent Paul Shefeld are at the heart of what we stand for.
and will always be looking to improve Chief Executive our CR performance.
By continuing to Chairman Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee I am pleased to report that Kier continues benchmark ourselves, setting realistic to make steady progress in all aspects targets for improvement each year and of its corporate responsibility and as a acting on lessons learned, we believe that measure of our commitment to improve real progress can be made.
While current year on year, I can advise that we have market conditions prevail, we have little opted to be independently assured by control over economic issues but in terms KPMG Audit Plc whose report can be found of growing our social and environmental on page 44. performance, now is a really good time for us to act and add value.
Our measuring, reporting and monitoring is based on the Business in the Community This is why I am so pleased that in this Corporate Responsibility Index BITC CR reporting year we have successfully This section is a summary Index and, in addition, the full CR Report launched The Kier Foundation as a fully of the full Kier Group plc meets the Global Reporting Initiatives registered charity and have forged a Corporate Responsibility guidelines at GRI C level.
Report 2012 which is These two initiatives will ensure that our available online at: www.
co. uk ar2012 crr Financially, Kier remains in good shape employees will continue to enhance their despite the downturn and, in line with positive impact upon societies across the our corporate strategy, we are positioning UK and beyond.
ourselves to react to and bene t from new, O t h s e r e e s y t o a l k p e m h o E l d e r s s t s y l a T n h a e s t m n m e e a d m i t e a s r e t v s n I s s Our business 40 Corporate Responsibility The Kier Board is committed A fully integrated approach to improving the Groups performance year on year How we manage ourselves as across all aspects of corporate a business directly in uences our stakeholder groups and responsibility and believes it Kier is committed to being has the capacity to make a recognised as a corporately responsible organisation Business positive difference to peoples as part of its vision to be risks the most highly respected lives and environments.
Our Brand Business management company in the industry.
ethics CR programme is reported Integrated and based upon the broad Managing responsibility Kier Senior management with Integrated framework provided by the Corporate financial clearly fide ned roles are governance management responsible and accountable BITC CR Index alongside Corporate to the Kier Board for ensuring responsibility the requirements of the that all aspects of our corporate responsibilities, industry-speci c Considerate our brand, business risks, Constructors Scheme.
The governance, ethics and nances are managed full CR Report on our UK responsibly.
businesses, which is available Delivering quality Nurturing stakeholder relationships on-line at the link below, In order to stay ahead, We engage proactively with through the Considerate we promote the need to our shareholders to promote Constructors Scheme and complies with the Global continuously improve our understanding of our business The Kier Foundation pages Reporting Initiative GRI service and product.
To do and how we operate see 3, 4, 14, 15, 16 and 17 of this, we canvass our clients Relations with shareholders the full CR Report and our G3 Sustainability Reporting regularly and take action on page 63.
We engage work with BITC, Barnardos whenever appropriate to Guidelines at application level with employees through and numerous other charities.
improve what we do and how our employee engagement However, we do not make C and has been externally we do it.
We recognise that our surveys pages 5, 12 and any political donations reputation plays a signi cant 13 of the full CR Report, see Directors report assured by KPMG Audit Plc.
role in the success of our our customers through on page 56. business and aim to exceed satisfaction surveys pages client expectations across our Full CR Report 3, 4, 6 and 7 of the full CR Full CR Report www.
co. uk ar2012 crr full range of services.
Report, and our communities CR Steering Committee and Board reporting Kier Board involvement CR Steering Committee Group CR Annual Report and KPMG During the year ended 30 June 2012, executive directors assurance work Paul Shefeld Chair were eligible to receive a bonus, a proportion of which BITC CR Index survey results, targets Chief Executive was payable if corporate responsibility and health and and actions safety performance targets, which are considered to be key 2010 and 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project Alan Smith Jackie Ducker nonfinancial measures for the Group, were achieved.
See submissions Kier Group Kier Services Directors remuneration report on pages 64 to71.
Carbon Reduction Commitment and the Climate Change Act 2008 Nigel Turner Chris King The Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee reports Business ethics and code of conduct Kier Property Kier Homes quarterly to the main Board, bringing to their attention Bribery Act 2010 and issues concerning issues that require addressing at the highest level.
During e-training and awareness campaigns across Steve Underwood Viv Chestereld the Group the year, the Kier Board has devoted time to dealing with Kier Construction Kier Group Waste data collection and target performance such matters as shown in the blue panel.
Community engagement and the creation of Andrea Walton Hugh Raven The Kier Foundation as a charitable trust and The role of the Committee Kier Group Kier Group the two-year partnership with Barnardos Chaired by Kier Group chief executive Paul Shef eld, the CR The Considerate Constructors Scheme Steering Committee comprises senior representatives from Sharon Clark Carol Simmonds monthly performance data and targets Secretary of CR Kier Construction all parts of the Group and convenes at least once a quarter.
Web-based iConnecting CR data collection and performance tool initiative The committee is responsible for establishing policies, Feedback from shareholders on measuring and maintaining the Groups CR impact and CR issues ensuring that all strands of our responsibility to society are Equality and diversity strategy addressed, communicated and acted upon throughout all Employee engagement survey 2012 parts of the business.
The impact of CR on contract awards e s n r i C e s n o t u m r b a t h m p r e u n e n p i i i a u t K i b h e l c i s c y l a p n p d u S S h s a r e r e m h o o t l s d u e C r s Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Marketplace: Environment and Workplace: customers and supply chain climate change health and safety 1 2 3 Of necessity, customers are becoming Our ongoing quest to reduce carbon emissions The signi cant further reduction in our AIR increasingly demanding and seek to work and the amount of waste that goes to land ll rate re ects our determination to create with companies whose activities they can throughout all parts of the business continues.
safer working environments through strong respect.
We aim to measure the value of our Whenever we are able we will exert our in uence leadership underpinned by our Behavioural corporate reputation through regular customer to encourage others to do likewise.
Customer satisfaction surveys Carbon and waste Accident Incidence Rate AIR Perfect Results Emissions tonnes Carbon Disclosure Staff Kier Staff HSE scores exceeding 80% per m Leadership Index score per 100,000 per 100,000 2010: 34.6t 2010: 77 2011: 389 2011: 736 26.76% 79.55% 35.2t 81 301 536 2011 calendar year 2011 calendar year Workplace: Community engagement Considerate Constructors Employees and training Scheme 4 5 6 Kiers 10,000 employees are vital to the The widespread UK coverage of our businesses Kier signed up as an associate member of the success of our business and all should have provides the potential to deliver our CR vision for Considerate Constructors Scheme in 2008. the opportunity to grow and develop as far as the bene t of thousands of people wherever we We have since maintained consistently high they can.
We are keen to keep our workforce operate by integrating with local communities to scores compared with the industry average engaged and encourage their feedback to make a positive difference.
and this year have won 37 national CCS enable us to improve as an employer.
Employee development Community and related programmes Average Group scores Craft apprenticeships Foundation degrees Man hours Equivalent value of Scheme monthly score Industry average 2011: 261 2011: 99 2011: 154,000 man-hours out of 40 2011: 32.59 2011: 3.25m 2011: 34.63 248 132 161,254 3.08m 35.09 33.04 Included within KPMG's assurance scope.
The 2011 figure has been restated using the revised assumptions used for 2012 as set out in the Companys reporting guidelines.
The KPIs that have been referred to in this CR section are defined in the Companys reporting guidelines which can be found on our website www.
co. uk rg The Kier-built Writhlington School in Radstock Kier received five Green Hero Awards at this years Kier operations director Mike Davies right received 1 2 3 won a top award in the British Council for School Green Apple Awards the RoSPA Presidents Award Environments Awards 5 6 Our comprehensive career development programme The site team at Whipps Cross University Hospital Demonstration of an on-site waste processing plant 4 covers everyone from new entrant trainee to supported Breast Cancer Awareness Month at a Kier site senior executive Our business 42 Corporate Responsibility While we are satis ed that our AIR v manpower AIR v manpower ten-year chart continues to reduce and that our Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS scores are consistently above average, we remain focused 25.6 24.7 23.8 23.6 23.0 22.2 on continuous improvement.
Our recent 21.4 19.4 employee engagement survey has identi ed 18.3 18.0 the need to place a greater emphasis on communicating with our workforce at local 757 640 level and this will be subject to review and 588 598 588 522 404 discussion at Board level.
However, feedback 389 312 301 from our annual employee roadshows has revealed that Kiers operations are much 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 better understood by the wider Kier community End of June average manpower 000s than before.
End of June AIR Direct economic value added Considerate Constructors Scheme To illustrate the economic value generated by our activities, the 17 22 12 16 20 22 19 19 17 13 22 16 diagram below summarises detailed financial information from our 35.50 annual report representing the principal value added to stakeholders.
June 2012 June 2011 Target The KPIs that have been referred to in this CR section are defined in the Companys reporting guidelines which can be found on our website www.
co. uk rg t n y Our business e t i m n u e m g a m n o a C E M n v I i m r o p n a c m t e n n o t i t a r g e t n M I W a n o r a k g p e l m a c e e n e y t t g a e r t o Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 BITC performance Waste management Gold status The Group participated in the Data from SMARTWASTE for all businesses construction, demolition 2011: 85% 2012 BITC CR Index, achieving and excavation waste.
90% Gold status, up from 85% in 2011 Silver status.
90% Year to 30 June 2009 Year to 30 June 2010 8% 10% Summary performance 32% 21% 17% 40% This chart summarises Kier's performance across each section of the CR Index survey.
31% 41% 100% 80% Year to 30 June 2011 Year to 30 June 2012 60% 12% 9% 40% 29% 35% 23% 24% Disposed % Re-used % Recycled % 35% 33% Recovered % Avg score 2012 Carbon intensity Avg score 2011 Kier Group UK operations Scope 1 and 2 emissions Year Total Scope Intensity Intensity GRI Index performance 1 & 2 emissions total CO2 emissions total CO2 emissions total CO2 emissions m turnover employee tonnes tonnes tonnes GRI Index Our full CR Report has been assured to comply 2009 71,570 35.7 6.98 with application level C of the GRI Index 2010 75,009 34.6 7.39 GRI Index 2011 72,366 35.2 7.12 GRI Index contents table level C can be found in our full CR Report at: C www.
co. uk ar2012 crr Kier employee feedback Employee engagement survey The chart shows how well Kier employees feel they understand CR There was a marked improvement in participation levels in this years issues after attending the 2011 employee roadshows that were employee engagement survey, particularly within our Services division.
The 1,275 questionnaires returned following the roadshows highlighted that our CR programme was: Kier Group 65% 6,454 employees Much better understood 2010: 43% 25% 2010: 20% Kier Services 62% 3,624 employees Better understood 55% 2010: 29% 2010: 55% Kier Construction The same 68% 20% 2,395 employees 2010: 20% 2010: 61% N A or not answered Kier Property 0% 73% 2010: 5% 262 employees 2010: 60% Kier Limited Included within KPMG's assurance scope.
80% 173 employees The KPIs that have been referred to in this CR section are defined in the Companys reporting 2010: 77% guidelines which can be found on our website www.
co. uk rg a p r r t o S C M M a a r n k a e g t e p m l a e c e n r e t u s o l c s i D E M n a v n i a r o g n e m m e e n n t t t l c a a i c p o m S I Our business 44 Corporate Responsibility assurance statement KPMG Audit Plc was engaged by Kier Group plc Kier to provide limited Which assurance standard did we use?
1 assurance over selected aspects of the Kier Group plc Corporate We conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, with a team of Responsibility section in its Annual Report and Accounts for the year specialists in auditing environmental information and with experience ended 30 June 2012 the Report.
This standard requires that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including independence requirements, This independent assurance report is made solely to Kier in accordance and plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about with the terms of our engagement.
Our work has been undertaken so whether the data is free from material misstatement.
that we might state to Kier those matters we have been engaged to state within this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted ISAE 3000 requires that the practitioner complies with the requirements by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than of Parts A and B of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, Kier for our work, this report, or for the conclusions we have reached.
issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants the IESBA Code which requires, among other requirements, that the members Responsibilities of the assurance team practitioners as well as the assurance rm The Directors of Kier Group plc are responsible for preparing the Report assurance provider be independent of the assurance client, including and the information and statements within it.
They are responsible for not being involved in writing the Sustainability & Responsibility Report identi cation of stakeholders and material issues, for fide ning objectives and plan and perform the engagements to obtain limited assurance about with respect to sustainability performance, and for establishing and whether data is free from material misstatement.
The Code also includes maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, systems from which reported information is derived.
professional competence and due care, con dentiality and professional behaviour.
KPMG Audit Plc has systems and processes in place to monitor Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in relation to the scope compliance with the Code and to prevent con icts regarding independence.
Our independence with the client is reviewed on an annual basis.
What was included in the scope of our assurance engagement?
What did we do to reach our conclusions?
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, information and explanations that we considered necessary in relation to the above Assurance scope Level of assurance Criteria scope.
Our work was limited to the following procedures using a range of Reliability of performance Limited assurance.
Relevant internal reporting evidence-gathering activities which are further explained below: data for year ended 30 guidelines for the selected June 2012 marked with performance data as set the symbol on pages out in Kier's reporting Conducting interviews with management and other personnel at Kier, 41 to 43 of the Report.
guidelines available at to understand the systems and controls in place during the year ended www.
30 June 2012: An evaluation of the design, existence and operation of the systems and methods used to collect, process and aggregate the selected The extent of evidence-gathering procedures for a limited assurance performance data as well as testing the reliability of underlying data engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and at a risk based selection of the following sites: therefore a lower level of assurance is provided for the data.
Kier Services Maintenance Kier Infrastructure Inherent limitations Greenburn Coal Mine Nonfinancial performance information is subject to more inherent Tempsford Head Of ce limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the From a Group perspective these sites represent: subject matter and the methods used for determining such information.
62% of the selected Environment and climate change data: The absence of a signi cant body of established practice on which to 100% of the selected Workplace data: draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable measurement 100% of the selected Marketplace data: techniques which can result in materially different measurements 74% of the selected Community engagement data: and and can impact comparability.
The precision of different measurement 100% of the selected Considerate Constructors Scheme data.
Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as the measurement criteria and What are our conclusions?
the precision thereof, may change over time.
It is important to read the The following conclusions should be read in conjunction with the work selected sustainability information contained within the Sustainability & performed and scope of our assurance engagement described above.
Responsibility Report in the context of Kiers Reporting Guidelines available on the Kier website www.
Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the performance data marked with the symbol, on pages 41 to 43, are not fairly stated, in In particular, inherent limitations affect the conversion of electricity and all material respects in accordance with the relevant internal reporting fuel used to calculate carbon emissions.
Conversion of electricity and fuel guidelines for the selected performance data.
used to calculate carbon emissions is based upon, inter alia, information and factors derived by independent third parties as explained in Kiers Reporting Guidelines.
Our assurance work has not included examination Andrew Marshall for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc of the derivation of those factors and other third-party information.
Chartered Accountants Our assurance work has not included challenging the scienti c work London undertaken by independent third parties when calculating these 12 September 2012 emissions factors.
1 Inter national Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance engagements other than Audits or reviews of Historical information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board
