10 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 B USINESS REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY: BECOMING NET POSITIVE Our work on the UKs Green Deal will enable us to contribute to Sustainability is a key part of discussions on the current European Energy efficiency Directive, which aims to encourage Member States to become more energy efficient.
Kingshers heritage and we are now Castorama France has launched a dedicated web application aimed building on these strong foundations.
at helping its customers become more energy efficient.
At the start of 2012 we announced a new corporate responsibility plan During 2011 12 we successfully reduced our store energy consumption called Kingsher Net Positive.
It commits us to a new challenge: to go by 8%, two low-carbon stores were opened by Castorama France and beyond neutrality, to no longer strive to do less but to seek to make a one by B&Q UK, with further low energy stores planned at Brico Dpt positive contribution to the worlds future.
France, Brico Dpt Spain and Castorama Russia.
Our philosophy is that we should eventually be able to put more back Within our supply chain, our main sourcing ofce in Hong Kong has than we take out to be net positive.
Our strategy sets ambitious targets started work with WWF Hong Kong to encourage our largest suppliers across the business until 2020 and focuses on four priority areas: timber, to reduce emissions as part of the WWF Low Carbon Manufacturing energy, innovation and communities.
Over the past year our achievements Programme LCMP.
show how this journey is already underway.
Our CR Report, to be INNOVATION published in June 2012, will provide more detail on our performance.
We aim to be at the forefront of eco-product innovation by 2020.
TIMBER Eco-product sales now account for approximately 13% of Group sales.
In 2010 11 B&Q UK became the first major UK retailer to achieve the Eco-products include best in class eco-products, such as B&Qs new aim of purchasing 100% of their timber products from forest sources Clean Spirit an eco-alternative to white spirit and eco-compliant independently veried as well-managed.
B&Q UK continues to be a ranges, including certied timber products.
Each item is assessed by leader in responsible sourcing and is committed to maintaining that the sustainability experts BioRegional to ensure it meets our achievement by only selling timber from independently veried legal and .
We aim to replicate this success across Kingsher In 2011 12 we launched 11 Group common brands across all of our with a Group-wide target to reach 100% independently veried sustainable Operating Companies.
This Group brand alignment enables synergies, timber sourcing by 2020.
In 2011 12, our Group-wide responsible sourcing leverages volumes and helps to control the sourcing of products, which was at 86%.
We are also working with our Operating Companies to help means that we can apply a common approach to embedding them to comply with the new EU Timber Regulation for 2013. sustainability across our brands.
All of our Operating Companies work at country level with domestic Our research into closed loop products continues, building on B&Q UKs timber suppliers to incorporate Forest Stewardship Council FSC role as a founding corporate partner of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation.
certied products within the supply chain and to improve availability of Over the past year we have been exploring ways in which materials can certied timber and products.
Over the past year, Castorama France was be reused to preserve resources and increase their value.
This work recognised by WWF France as the leading supplier of sustainable timber forms part of the Foundations vision to create a circular economy in France: Brico Dpt Spain won the Cemex Foundations Sustainable where resources are perpetually in use.
For example, we are currently Supply Chain Award for their work with Kingsher on responsible timber undertaking a feasibility study with a local council to recycle disused sourcing: and Kotas in Turkey is working with Rainforest Alliance on polypropylene and transform it into containers for grout or adhesives.
a strategic plan to improve the supply of certied timber within Turkey.
In-store, our Operating Companies are planning campaigns during 2012 COMMUNITIES to increase customer awareness of the importance of responsible We aim to be a good neighbour and our stores and employees are the timbersources.
link to communities, with many already involved in local volunteering.
Throughout the Group we aim to help people build skills within the ENERGY community.
Castorama France launched Les Trocheures, a free Our energy targets are aimed at signicantly reducing our energy community skills swapping website that encourages people to share consumption as a business by 2020: whilst also helping our customers skills, from DIY to dressmaking.
In early 2012 the site had 3,500 consume less energy at home without compromising on comfort.
members and over 1,000 swaps had taken place.
We continue to work closely with the UK government to progress the Another leading programme is B&Q UKs Job Done!, which provides UKs Green Deal.
The initiative, expected to be launched later this year, free teaching resources for young people aged five to 16 to learn aims to encourage households to invest in improved energy efficiency, practical DIY skills.
B&Q also has a partnership with UK Youth and off-set by long-term cost savings on home energy bills.
Our approach is Youth Work Ireland that includes skills training to youth groups around to offer advice and simple DIY products to customers, whether retail or the country.
trade, alongside professionally installed insulation and energy saving products.
To date we have carried out insulation installation trials at KINGFISHER NET POSITIVE 31B&Q UK stores.
Later this year, we plan to offer in-house energy Kingshers Net Positive plan marks the beginning of the next phase efficiency assessments for customers.
We will also be helping smaller of our leadership in corporate responsibility and is a core part of tradesmen across the UK to prepare for the demand for energy Kingshers Creating the Leader strategic programme.
Our full CR efficient products.
Report, published in June, will detail our progress against our strategy and targets.
Our ambition is not simply to replace what we use or to be neutral, but to contribute to creating a better future.
