Operating review Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable business A t Laird we are committed to working 2012 Achievements F One of the Groups main operational sites in Shenzhen won the sustainably in a way that respects the Advanced Unit of Preventing Industrial Injury award presented environment and which looks after the by the Shenzhen Safety Bureau for the sites excellent safety performance throughout 2012. well-being of all our stakeholders and the F Global efforts are being made to regionalise raw material wider communities in which we work.
supplies and manufacturing operations, as well as signicantly Good governance and monitoring of our reduce the number of product and material shipments that are expedited by air, by utilising consolidated ocean shipments sustainable performance will ultimately instead.
It is estimated we have reduced scope 3 GHG emissions help us grow our business and generate emissions from for air shipments by 18% to 3,853 tonnes of CO 2 4,710 tonnes in 2011 as a direct result of this effort.
in large cost savings in freight and duty for the business as well as greatly reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
David Lockwood Chief Executive F At the Shenzhen site, hot exhaust air from the site air compressors is utilised to heat chemical baths in the sites metal nishing operations, saving 30,000 kWh of electricity per month.
This report covers seven areas which help us meet the Our focus is on being a good corporate citizen within needs of our wider stakeholder community: the communities in which we operate.
Our priority is on upholding the highest ethical standards in the Environmental way we do business.
Health and safety management We strive to work openly and sustainably, respecting the natural environment and working in partnership Product stewardship with communities to ensure we run responsible and efficient operations.
Our commitment to the Operational efficiency sustainability of our operations has in turn resulted Workplace incost benets across the Group.
The ongoing implementation and review of our Community sustainability initiatives are monitored by our CSR Future initiatives teams locally, with close links to our Risk Governance Group, with a direct reporting line to David Lockwood, In addition, we have KPIs which provide an ongoing benchmark Chief Executive, who regularly reports to the Board ofour effectiveness see page 25. on CSR.
32 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information It is a corporate directive that all Laird manufacturing sites deemed Environmental to have an environmental impact and EHS risk, implement certied Laird aims to conduct all operations in a way that recognises integrated management systems to ISO 14001 and OHSAS responsibility to the environment and compliance with laws, 18001standards.
We acknowledge the importance of Our main manufacturing facilities are ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 managing, measuring and publicly reporting on our environmental certied.
Twelve Laird facilities currently hold active Integrated footprint and strive to keep improving our performance.
Management Systems IMS certication status to ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 standards and two facilities hold active ISO Carbon Disclosure Project 14001 certication.
All of these facilities successfully completed To demonstrate our commitment to improve energy efficiency re-certication or surveillance audits during the year.
and resource use across our operations, we participate in the In addition the Kunshan facility in China achieved certication to annual Information Request by the Carbon Disclosure Project, ISO 14064-1:2006 for verication of their site scope 1 and scope 2 an independent non-profit organisation which acts as an 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
intermediary between shareholders and corporations on all climate change related issues and provides primary climate Measuring our progress change data from the worlds largest corporations to the globalmarketplace.
Throughout 2012 we have been monitoring energy usage and carbon emissions in our largest sites, with an activity-based reduction target of 5% relative to total hours worked.
Total greenhouse RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances gas emissions at these sites in 2012 were 25,945 tonnes CO 2 We continue to effectively address RoHS and any customer-required approximately 8% below 2011 28,437 tonnes CO. 2 restricted substance management through proactive contact with our suppliers and continued sampling of materials deemed to be The increase in waste production can be attributed to an increased 1 high risk through established internal protocols at our CNAS-A2LA number of sites that were included in the reporting this year as a certied high precision RoHS laboratory in Shenzhen, China.
result of recent acquisitions made during 2012.
In 2012 over 8,500 samples were tested for RoHS restricted Tonnes CO 1 million revenue 2 substances in our Asian laboratories in Shenzhen, Kunshan and Tianjin.
The decision to conduct in-house testing, as opposed to 2012 67.22 using an accredited third party laboratory resulted in net savings ofapproximately US$800,000 in 2012.
2011 77.34 REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation kWh 1 million revenue and restriction of CHemical substances We actively address customer enquiries for REACH compliance data 2012 171,557 for our products, and develop our supply chain in line with all REACH 2011 197,043 legal compliance obligations.
Waste to landll tonnes 1 million revenue EHS Environmental, Health and Safety Policy We are committed to achieving high environmental standards 2012 1.20 and maintain a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to ensure continuous improvement and promote and 2011 1.17 develop good health, safety and environmental practices.
1 The national accreditation body of China responsible for the accreditation of certication bodies, laboratories and inspection bodies.
This certication is also recognised by the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation A2LA under the international cooperation scheme.
2 Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders to recognise, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the entity such as fossil fuels burned on site and other direct sources.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated off site but purchased by the entity.
Scope 3 emissions include indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by the entity but related to the entitys activities, such as third party shipping, business travel and commuting activities.
33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Operating review Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety management 2012 Sustainability activities Worldwide employee headcount for our operations decreased from F Various energy savings, materials reduction and recycling 9,912 at the end of 2011 to 9,078 at the end of 2012. initiatives are continuing across all our facilities, including precious metal and scrap metal recovery programmes, The reportable accident rate increased from 0.13 in 2011 to 0.20 cardboard and white paper reduction and recycling 3 per 100 employees annualised, on an approximate 20% decrease programmes, the re-use of packaging material and shipping in total hours worked from 2011.
Minor accident rates reported in pallets, and the replacement of inefficient facility lighting with 2012 decreased 17% from 0.24 in 2011 to 0.20 per 100 employees LED and other energy efficient lighting.
Health and safety remains a key focus of our risk management.
F Lairds Shenzhen site installed new waste gas treatment equipment and a central control system in 2012 to further Lower headcount and fewer total hours worked can be attributed to reduce plant air emissions.
the discontinuation of some of our operations in China.
F During the renovation of a newly acquired thermal facility 4 Worldwide headcount in Cleveland, low VOC paint was used for the exterior of the building, recycled asphalt for the car park repair, and energy 2012 9,078 efficient lighting was installed inside the factory.
2011 9,912 FTSE4Good As a member of the FTSE4Good index since 2004, we recognise Reportable accidents per 100 employees annualised the need to balance our social and environmental impacts in 2012 0.20 a manner that best serves the needs of all our stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local 2011 0.13 communities.
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are updated on a regular basis and continuous improvement is required to merit ongoing inclusion in the index.
The criteria are also regularly Product stewardship assessed by EIRIS, an independent research organisation.
Environmental, Health and Safety considerations are fundamental in our business planning and in the development of new products and manufacturing processes.
Operational efficiency Energy efficient regulation and greater energy awareness are Continuous Improvement redening future lighting product portfolios and the industry is rapidly The Continuous Improvement Process CIP programme contributes moving towards more energy efficient solutions, such as LEDs.
Laird to improvements in overall business processes, enhances the now supplies thermally conductive circuit boards for these assemblies quality of our product and reliability of fullment, and increases which help to remove excess heat from the LEDs, improving their operational efficiency and responsiveness to customers.
This in performance, preventing them from damage, and assuring colour turn positively benets our profitability and customer satisfaction.
and intensity stability over their long lifetime.
Customer satisfaction is measured through formal customer surveys Remote sensing is becoming more prominent in a wide range of and customer centric internal KPIs.
Information is reviewed by the applications including the monitoring and control of safety and businesses and support teams, and through continued assessment environmental management systems.
Laird offers power supply and actions, we strive to continually improve customer satisfaction assemblies that utilise temperature differentials to generate power and ensure lessons learnt are fed back into the product development for these sensor systems, eliminating the need to run electrical wiring and deployment processes.
to power them and often harvesting waste heat as an additional We continued to see gains in our manufacturing processes, product power source.
quality and customer satisfaction ratings alongside cost reductions through our Lean Six Sigma CIP programme during 2012, which delivered approximately US$12.6 million in savings by the end of theyear.
3 4 We have adopted US OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration Volatile Organic Compound.
Organic chemicals with high vapour pressure and which reportable accident denitions across Laird in all regions to ensure we are consistent are regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency EPA.
in our denitions and that we are accurately capturing notication and data on all reportable accidents that occur.
34 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Customer satisfaction continued to improve during 2012 with survey Employee engagement results indicating a further increase in our overall Quality rating.
In Selection, recruitment, retention and professional development, addition, every business unit was rated higher than other competitors alongside the well-being of our employees, are taken very seriously for Quality for the third year in a row, with an overall 58% increase as we recognise that the success of our business relies on the skill in quality ratings against competitors between 2011 and 2012. and dedication of our employees.
The welfare of our employees is one of our highest priorities and we aim to offer great opportunities Our focus on reducing the number of customer complaints for personal and professional growth as well as an enjoyable through our CIP programme has resulted in a 33% reduction in the workingenvironment.
Customer Complaint rate year on year.
A major focus of the 2012 CIP programme was Supplier Quality Improvement, which involved In 2012, as part of the process to better understand and improve a formal three phase plan to reorganise the worldwide supplier our organisations culture, Laird partnered with Stanford University development organisation and update the processes, procedures, in California to conduct an online cultural gap analysis the process systems and approach to performance improvement.
The results in through which a company compares its actual performance to its 2012 were a 60% improvement in Supplier Quality parts per million expected performance, the results of which have allowed us to reduction year on year.
begin a wider programme of cultural integration and alignment alongside improved internal communications.
In addition, we Workplace conduct a comprehensive global employee satisfaction survey across the organisation every 18 months to monitor employees Human Rights views on our internal operations, and set an action plan to address The International Labour Organisation ILO has identied eight Core any issues raised.
A new employee engagement survey scheme will Conventions as being fundamental to the rights of human beings be conducted in the second quarter of 2013 and then carried out at work.
Laird has expressed its support for the Core Conventions, frequently throughout the year.
and we have stated our commitment to the principles within We continue to offer our employees ongoing learning and theseconventions.
development opportunities through our training schemes in order to help them develop their skills and keep abreast of the latest industry Laird is committed to ensuring that its supply base complies with innovations.
Courses are aligned to match the skills our employees the EICC Code of Conduct, a code of best practice implemented require to support their growth in their respective elds.
We ran a by some of the worlds major electronics brands and their total of 171,524 hours of training courses, an average of 19 hours per suppliers.
Laird has established processes and practices in place, employee during 2012. and regularly audits and reviews these to ensure its operations are using Best in Class processes.
We are also audited several times a Regular consultation between managers and employees is year by a number of our customers.
encouraged and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
As part of our Total Rewards Strategy, we 2012 Workplace initiatives have Career Ladders along with a Career Aspiration tool in Our Shenzhen, Tianjin and Shunde sites in China all successfully order to create development plans for our employees continued passed Work Safety Standardisation audits conducted by their advancement.
Thisproject along with our Succession Planning local government Safety Bureaus.
and High Potentialschemes are building a culture of learning and growth forall employees.
Our Shenzhen facility installed additional heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC capacity and ventilation to improve The worldwide annualised employee turnover rate has improved to indoor air quality for employees manufacturing areas.
The voluntary attrition rate in Asia in 2012 was 17.3% down from 33.5% in 2011, similar patterns were seen in Lairds EMI site in Shanghai installed air conditioning in the Europe and North America Europe was 8.0% from 13.0% and North stamping workshop at both the Xinzhuang and Songjiang plants America was 8.8% from 11.7%.
This can be attributed to improved to improve the working conditions for employees.
pay packages and hiring practices in addition to an increased focus on better employee relations and communications.
35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Operating review Corporate Social Responsibility Community Global Code of Conduct F High standards of business conduct are a key competitive Charitable donations and community affairs strength and critical to maintaining our global licence to operate.
Laird understands that maintaining a good relationship between its Laird believes in upholding the highest ethical standards of business and the broader society in which it operates is fundamental business integrity.
We place high priority on compliance with all to long-term business growth.
legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards within each of the territories and Examples of locally based activities in which our employees and jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.
Our Global Code facilities across the globe participated in over the past year include: of Conduct, which is available on our website and reviewed sponsored walks, gift programmes, rafes, cake sales, local nature annually, incorporates policies and guidelines relating to human reserve conservancy efforts, and the support of educational projects.
rights, equal opportunities, ethics, compliance, anti-harassment, During the year Laird donated 6,634 2011, 2,288 to UK charities conicts of interest and regulatory compliance.
F Our global Ethics Hotline provides a condential way for employees to raise concerns about inappropriate behaviour.
Future initiatives The hotline utilises an independent telephone and internet 2012 has seen a series of improvements to our data collection, provider, offering support in local languages and has an analysis and reporting processes that have already facilitated internalescalation and resolution process driven by the improvements to our CSR performance.
Building on this success, Laird RiskGovernance Group.
is formalising a strategy which over the next two years will develop F Lairds Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, Global Code of our data collection and set and monitor relevant targets.
As we Conduct and Equal Employment and Human Rights policy are mature our processes we plan to seek an independent assurance of available online at www.
com laird csr our key CSR reporting including carbon emissions, waste generation and water consumption.
2013 will start to see greater importance placed on reporting our water usage across all sites and an increase in our water conservation efforts.
As part of our strategy we have been working in conjunction with the Carbon Disclosure Project to draw upon their support and advice in order to achieve our goals.
ZhiChao Public Primary School, China Laird is committed to helping the needs of one of the local communities in which it operates and therefore set up a joint project with four of its suppliers to assist the ZhiChao Public Primary School in China.
The school is located in the Ledong Li Autonomous County, an area that experiences high poverty.
The school was founded in 1952 and has over 50 students between the ages of six and 13.
Laird, together with its suppliers, worked to improve the overall condition of the school, which had deteriorated over time, in the hope of creating a better educational environment for its students and teachers.
Doors, windows, tables and chairs in all of the classrooms were replaced and each student received school equipment.
The group coordinators later visited the school to meet the students and teachers and assess the improvements that had been made.
36 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
