01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Sustainability Review [ 49] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We recognise that our performance is of interest to a diverse range of both national and international stakeholders, including our employees and contractors.
Governing sustainable development Given that our sustainability and engagement we have progressed on our sustainability journey and strategies are currently evolving and will be informed how recent events have impacted the Company.
by introspection and investigations that are currently Our commitments in governing sustainable underway we have decided not to delay our reporting development are set out in the Lonmin Safety and on our sustainable development performance.
We Sustainable Development Policy and are guided by our remain committed to reporting publicly our sustainable 15 Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards that development performance as we recognise that our are aligned with the ten principles of the International performance is of interest to a diverse range of both Council on Mining and Metals ICMM.
The Safety & national and international stakeholder, including our Sustainability Committee of the Board has oversight employees and contractors.
of the safety, health and environmental programmes.
This review is a summary of our performance against We have been a member of the ICMM since 2004 those issues that are material to our business and to and we are signatories to the United Nations Global our stakeholders.
Our online Sustainable Development Compact.
Report contains comprehensive information on how Securing the safety of our Employees Our principal operational priority relates to ensuring best practice.
The Standards will be implemented the safety of our employees and contractors.
While over a three calendar year period, with the aim of we recognise that mining and processing operations having the standards integrated into decision making present risks, we believe that we can operate without processes during all phases of the operations by injury and, most importantly, without loss of life.
A steering committee was appointed the year under review, we achieved 13 million fall of during 2012 that will support the roll out of the 15 ground free shifts at our Rowland operations a Sustainable Development Standards within the significant achievement as fall of ground remains the operations.
highest cause of fatalities in the underground mining Our Safety Strategy is devised in consultation with our industry.
We aspire to be the industry leader in respect stakeholders we give our operations and employees of safety performance, Lonmin was recognised by the the opportunity to identify their current situation and Association of Mine Managers South Africa Safety think about what safety goals they need to achieve.
Awards in December 2011 where we were awarded The Safety Strategy incorporates feedback from 14 of the 36 safety awards.
We have also extended our Our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy safety focus to better understand leading indicators, outlines our policy commitments, with 15 Lonmin such as household conditions.
At our Process Division Sustainable Development Standards supported by we are tracking these issues as they can contribute to Fatal Risk Control Protocols.
These provide a riskemployees at work behaviour.
based management framework for Company wide As a Company, we use our key safety objectives: safety management, for our strategy of working fatality prevention, injury prevention and safe towards continual improvement and alignment with production culture, to measure our performance.
com Sustainability Review Lonmin Plc [ 50] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Fatality prevention how safety initiatives should be implemented setting Following the unacceptable performance in 2011, expectations and being accountable for the results.
when our operations suffered six fatal accidents, All employees in leadership roles, especially high level Lonmin reported two fatal accidents in 2012.
While leadership, take part in safety training and workshops this falls short of our aim to operate without any loss throughout the year.
of life, we recognise the efforts of management, Reducing the severity of injuries continued to be a employees, contractors and unions to effect this focus area during the year under review.
We had 16 decrease and we commend our operational teams level three safety incidents compared with 36 level on this critical step forward.
An injury An important feature of our safety culture is safety can be classified as a level 3 injury based on the through leadership development.
The entire executive severity of the injury that in the opinion of the medical team and many senior managers, including our CEO, practitioner, can result in some degree of permanent along with union leaders, participated in a DuPont disability.
We are investigating all level three safety safety management training course with emphasis incidents to determine their basic causes.
on achieving a culture of care, increasing safety Effort has been made to improve our post-injury care awareness and a personal commitment to safety.
resulting in a reduction of the amount of time This, we believe, will be one of our most valuable employees take after being injured.
Our severity rate tools in achieving zero harm.
Similarly, our Medical Treatment Cases declined by 44% during the year.
Injury prevention Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR is the Safety stoppages principal measure of safety performance, illustrating During the year, Lonmin was issued with 37 Section 54 the number of occurrences of lost time injuries per notifications from the Department of Mineral Resources million man hours worked.
Our year-on-year LTIFR DMR, an increase of 37% from the 27 issued in 2011. improved from 4.71 to 4.16 thus 11.7% improvement.
Section 54 notifications are issued when an Inspector Over the last five years Lonmin has improved the LTIFR from the DMR has reason to believe that any incident, by 33.65%.
Our year-on-year Lost Time Injuries LTIs exercise, or situation at an operation endangers, or improved by 11.2% from 419 in 2011 to 372 in 2012. has the potential to endanger, the health and safety While our injury rates have declined, the actual of any person at the mine.
number of LTIs and their causes remain a significant The Company fully supports the governments area of concern.
Material handling remains the main commitment to enforcing mine safety legislation, contributor to LTIs, accounting for 25% of all LTIs and we are directly involved with the DMR and other during the year.
In total, we lost 20, 579 days as a government structures to improve safety standards.
result of occupational injuries in 2012.
We perform internal safety stoppages if we believe Leading by example has had a significant positive that any incident or situation endangers any person impact on safety and Visible Felt Leadership VFL has at the mine.
The operation is halted until investigation been an important way to drive this behaviour.
At confirms the situation is resolved.
All injuries and Lonmin, we have made a public declaration of our incidents are investigated and reviewed by senior staff, commitment to caring about our people.
VFL means allowing us to understand where gaps in our safety that the commitment begins at the top and our strategy are and implement new, more effective plans.
leaders clearly demonstrating and communicating Employee Development It is vitally important for Lonmin to attract, develop and Attract and retain retain skilled employees from diverse backgrounds in The Lonmin Bursary Scheme is an important part of the face of a critical global skills shortage.
Globally our human capital pipeline.
Our bursar pool currently mining companies are facing a skills shortage.
In consists of students in the following major fields of South Africa the situation is further compound by: study: chemical engineering, electrical engineering, electronic engineering, industrial engineering, A legacy of inequality which has led to the mechanical engineering, mining engineering, mine exclusion of Historically Disadvantaged South survey, metallurgy, geology and instrumentation.
Africans HDSAs and women with core mining Bursaries are also allocated in the fields of finance skills, as well as professional and management and information technology.
In 2012, Lonmin positions: supported 98 bursars 43 in 2011, of whom 42% A legacy of systematic sub-standard education are from the local community.
for HDSAs and people neighbouring countries, resulting in large percentages of the countrys Our graduate development programme provides adult population illiterate or without skills: and valuable and structured practical experience and An unemployment crisis in South Africa, where exposure through a Graduate-in-Training Programme the private sector is expected to deliver jobs when to bursary students who have completed their government has not and cannot meet this demand.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Sustainability Review [ 51] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 A total of 248 learners enrolled in the learnership Building a transformed, performance based Company programme this year.
In an effort to increase the Specific programmes are in place to ensure the number of local community members who could workforce fairly reflects the demographics of the become eligible for learnership programmes, Lonmin country, and to meet the Mining Charter requirement has been running supplementary classes for school of 40% HDSAs including white women in learners in Mathematics, Physical Science and management by 2014.
Our Recruitment Policy gives English, as well as a one year technical and university preference to HDSA candidates.
To add impetus to preparedness course.
our programme, the Lonmin Corporate Scorecard has a bonus metric relating to the employment of HDSAs in management positions.
Leadership development Employee training and leadership development are At the end of 2012, 49.4% of permanent employees critical for Lonmin.
In 2012, the Company spent in management positions were classified as HDSAs, R200 million US$24 million on training and including white women, and 35.9%, excluding white development.
This equates to 3.6% of our payroll.
In total 2,326 Individual Development Plans IDPs were in place this year.
Although the focus for IDPs Empowerment through equity ownership is management we have developed line of sight and Shanduka is our Black Economic Empowerment BEE mission directed work teams to develop all our partner through the Incwala Resources Pty Limited employees.
These programmes incorporate Incwala structure with representation on our Board supervisor training, personal life skills, teamwork and and Executive Committee and an 18% equity interest safety life rules.
Shanduka has a proven track record This year 942 people attended Adult Basic Education of BEE investment and management in the natural Training of which 295 were community members.
We resources sector and believes this investment will have also enrolled 30 employees in the Management advance its strategy of developing as a BEE company Advancement Training Programme of whom 17 were in the South African mining sector.
As reported elsewhere in this report, it is possible that we may wish to facilitate the creation of trusts for the Women in mining benefit of current and future employees, and At the end of 2012, women represented 8.15% of our separately for members of the community, to which workforce, with 5.11% of our workforce being women new shares could be allotted for their sole economic in core mining positions.
In 2011, these figures were benefit.
In order to achieve this increase in HDSA 7.45% and 4.33% respectively.
The Mining Charter participation we are considering a range of options requires that 10% of jobs within the Company be filled involving the issuance of additional shares which by women in core mining positions by 2014. could dilute the interests of shareholders.
We have not yet finalised its proposals, and any future transaction To facilitate employment of women, we have: would need to be considered on its merits and may provided potential female employees with a fitness require prior shareholder approval.
programme which enhances their ability to pass the entrance fitness test: created of policies to assist with the protection of women in the workplace: and provided learnerships to women.
Partnering with Communities on social and labour plan projects in which our Historical inequalities in respect of economic opportunity, education and, indeed, access to basic operational areas also make contributions to support the communities around our operations.
These infrastructure, as well as difficulties facing the state in meeting rising community expectations for social initiatives include our Supply Chain department visiting the Sonop Old Age Home providing much needed delivery, place an enormous burden on companies.
winter supplies, repairing the boiler and delivering Mining companies, in particular, are required to wheel chairs.
Our Process Division is paying the contribute to economic transformation and social salaries of the staff at the Grace Help Centre a home delivery in line with the Broad-Based Socio-Economic for abused women and children.
The division also Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining gave financial assistance to the school governing and Minerals Industry amended Mining Charter.
body staff positions at the Sonop School, provide food supplies to struggling families in Twelereng and The Lonmin Community Development Programme, Elandskraal.
Our PMR has upgraded the Far East which focuses on education, health and local Rand Hospital to provide a facility to foster abandoned economic development LED, continues to make a babies: much needed in this particular area.
valuable contribution to the quality of life and services in the communities in which we operate, including our We realise that donations such as the above are labour-sending areas.
charitable related activities and do not have a sustainable lifespan.
However we have a number of Although Lonmin has a department dedicated to large substantial community investment projects in place.
scale community projects that spent R39,743,935 www.
com Sustainability Review Lonmin Plc [ 52] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Community education staff houses in collaboration with the Department of Low education levels and increasing youth Health, developed a lodger mother facility at Far East unemployment in the Greater Lonmin Community GLC Rand Hospital and has also donated one obstetric are major areas of concern.
To address this, we have ambulance to the surrounding communities, with a introduced initiatives specifically aimed at increasing total of R11.2 million having been spent.
The Marikana, the number of learners passing through the education Modderspruit, Wonderkop and Segwaelane clinics system and bridging the widening education gap have been refurbished to enable more community between school and university.
We have a holistic members to be served and they now have access to approach to building a better system for learners antenatal, paediatric services and treatment for through our unique education value chain.
The construction of a further clinic in Hwelereng in Limpopo was completed The Lonmin Community Education Programme goes in September 2012 at a cost of R10.25 million, this is beyond merely addressing basic education needs by additional expenditure over the above mentioned taking on a myriad of challenges, including inadequate spent.
infrastructure, quality of education, school nutrition needs and school governance.
The five pillars of the We continued our efforts continued to manage the programme include: HIV Aids pandemic and other sexually transmitted infections through our network of peer educators and Infrastructure: improving school infrastructure home based carers.
To date, 49 community based and other resources, from the smallest electrical peer educators and 92 home based carers have been issues to extensive building renovations and trained.
These dedicated volunteers receive extensive refurbishments including building classrooms, training through the Lonmin peer educator and home computer and science laboratories and ablution based carer programmes, and they in turn pass on facilities: their knowledge to the communities.
Youth Learner support: learner support on all levels programmes were given special attention in 2012, including extra lessons and career guidance.
The following the sharp increase in teen pregnancy, Ithuteng Extra-curricular Support Programme, substance abuse and HIV Aids in the youth of the which targets top performers from grade 8 to 12 GLC, particularly in grades 6 to 12.
The long-term is Lonmins flagship programme: goal is to reduce school drop out rates due to teen Educator support: providing training to the pregnancy.
For grades 1 to 5, the programme focuses teachers from the Early Childhood Development on abuse and childrens rights.
The school drop out phase through to tertiary level: rate due to teenage pregnancy improved from 23.4% Parent support: a new grapevine SMS system in 2011 to 17.2% in 2012. has been introduced which enables schools to better communicate with the parents: and There are currently around 1,300 orphaned and Nutrition: proper nutrition aids learning, vulnerable children OVCs in the GLC, who need concentration and memory in school children.
special care and present unique challenges to the Many children in the GLC arrive at school without community.
This year we have worked at equipping having eaten.
Lonmin has addressed this by the peer educators and home based carers with the supporting the Department of Basic Educations necessary skills to deal with the issues surrounding DBE school nutrition programme by providing a orphaned children.
Our nutrition programme provided daily meal.
For many children, this is the only meal food to over 400 OVCs at five community based food that they will eat in a day, and the nutrition centres in Marikana and two in Limpopo.
This programme has been accredited with increased programme is a natural progression of the school attendance over the past year.
We offer nutrition and health sustainability of the project, Lonmin is working education and basic skills training to the food with the schools to develop food gardens that will preparers to help them develop income generating supplement the DBE nutrition programme for projects.
Training in permaculture food gardening was years to come.
provided to 88 educators and 1,013 learners.
Food gardens have been established at five food centres and 24 schools in Marikana and nine in Limpopo with Community health Lonmins aim is to provide better access to schools already harvesting vegetables.
comprehensive primary health care to as many people in our communities as possible.
The priorities of our Community LED and enterprise development community health programme were based on the LED projects in 2012 focused on the development of findings of a comprehensive community health survey basic water and sanitation services and local small conducted in 2006 and reviewed in 2011.
The programme is designed priorities are health infrastructure development, to partner with local authorities and government to nutritional support, HIV Aids awareness and general address the major service provision problems facing health promotion.
the GLC and boost local economies.
The choice of projects is further guided by consultations with the Our 2012 goal in terms of health infrastructure communities, ward councillors and local municipalities.
development was to provide the residents of the GLC These projects include providing access to basic with access to comprehensive primary health care services such as water and sanitation, rain water services, situated within 5km of their homes.
This was a harvesting and setting up of a brick making factory.
To date Lonmin has completed Further details of these projects can be viewed online.
two clinic extensions, built a new clinic, donated two sd-report.
com mobile clinics, commenced with construction of three 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Sustainability Review [ 53] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Noise-induced hearing loss Health Noise is identified as a key occupational hygiene risk A healthier workforce is also clearly an advantage to at Lonmin and regrettably we have seen an increase our business: employees who are fit to work at their in the number of new cases of Noise-Induced Hearing full potential will report fewer absences owing to Loss NIHL identified during the year.
This can be sickness or ill health.
Our health programmes address attributed to equipment still emitting noise levels the regulatory components of occupational illnesses above 110dB and reluctance of operators to wear and their management and reporting, as well as public hearing protective devices.
health issues, namely HIV Aids and tuberculosis.
Our hearing conservation programme is aimed at We understand that the promotion of employee safety reducing the risk of NIHL through: and health entails an integrated approach involving all engineering controls, stakeholders.
We recognise that our employees live in administrative controls, the communities surrounding our operations and training of staff: acknowledge that we have a responsibility to design personal protective equipment: and and implement sustainable community health projects.
Healthcare delivery Noise induced hearing loss Lonmin offers employees and contractors primary and occupational healthcare services through various 250 on-site facilities.
There is a hospital at Marikana with a medical and surgical ward, which conducts minor 236 procedures, as well as a casualty and outpatients 200 department.
In addition to this hospital we have four clinics which offer a combination of primary and occupational healthcare services.
150 If an employee or contractor is injured on the job we will treat them on-site or, if the injury is serious, refer them to a private facility for specialised care.
Our 100 healthcare services will take responsibility for patient after care.
50 45 Occupational health and hygiene 33 28 Our occupational hygiene initiatives are aimed at 17 0 reducing the risk of exposure to potentially hazardous 08 09 10 11 12 conditions in the workplace, to ensure regulatory Financial year compliance and to improve workplace conditions by Compensated Diagnosed implementing appropriate occupational hygiene programmes.
The programmes implemented at our mines include the continuous assessment of identified Our rock drill silencing programme, which aims to risks and surveys aimed at identifying new hazards bring the noise levels associated with this equipment to and risks.
below 110dB, has continued at a cost to the Company of R18 million during FY2012 US$ 2.2 million.
Thus far we have issued 2,061 rock drills fitted with silencing Rate of occupational disease per 100,000 employees and contractors equipment, and plan to issue a further 506 rock drills with the silencing equipment.
2012 2011 HIV Aids and tuberculosis New NIHL cases diagnosed 115 94 Lonmins biennial wellness campaign, which involves NIHL cases compensated 90 46 testing for HIV, blood pressure, glucose, cholesterol Pulmonary tuberculosis 1,230 1,229 and a tuberculosis symptom screen, took place Occupational asthma 0 0 during between February and August 2012.
Occupational dermatitis 0 3 Supporting this initiative are regular awareness Platinosis platinum salt campaigns for employees and communities.
The most sensitivity 0 3 significant health issues remain HIV Aids and tuberculosis.
We have 486 trained HIV Aids workplace peer educators who inform, educate and instruct their colleagues about HIV Aids.
Prior to the Marikana tragedy, 279 were active.
This is a ratio of 1:101 peer educators per employee which is below our target of one peer educator per 75 employees.
This year, we undertook refresher training to motivate and encourage peer educators.
An on-site social worker provides additional counselling to employees, ensuring a holistic approach to their wellbeing.
com Number Sustainability Review Lonmin Plc [ 54] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We sponsored 46,945 voluntary counselling and HIV The high incidence of tuberculosis and the relationship tests during the year 2011: 31,666 and had a total of between tuberculosis and HIV Aids remain of concern.
657 people participating in our wellness programme All employees and contractors are screened for 2011: 526. tuberculosis during occupational health examinations, and treatment is provided to all those diagnosed with A total of 2,510 people received Anti-retroviral tuberculosis.
In 2012, a total of 527 new cases of Treatment ART from the Company 2011: 2,022. tuberculosis were diagnosed 2011: 545 cases.
We A significant achievement during the year has been are very pleased to report a cure rate of 86.1% of the marked reduction in ART defaulters to less than cases where the treatment outcome is known, which 5%, which is below our target.
ART defaulters are exceeds our target of 85%.
A total of 11 cases of those individuals who, for whatever reason, miss their Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis and zero cases of monthly treatment collection.
Extremely Drug Resistant Tuberculosis were reported in 2012 2011: 40 and 11.
Aids remain the highest cause of in-service deaths, and in 2012 we had 104 Aids related deaths 2011: 139.
Occupational health and hygiene Occupational hygiene initiatives aim to reduce the risk Tuberculosis of exposure to potentially hazardous conditions in the Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases workplace.
A number of programmes are in place that is aimed 560 at reducing the risk of exposure to potentially hazardous substances in the workplace, recent occupational 545 540 hygiene measurement data show significant 533 528 improvement in employee exposure profiles for 527 520 specifically lead and sulphur dioxide.
Reduced employee exposure to lead and sulphur dioxide is due to the 500 implementation of successful engineering controls.
Exposure to chloroplatinates Platinum salts is a 480 potential occupational health risk during the platinum 472 refining process.
Through our association with the 460 International Precious Metals Associations Scientific Task Force we have been involved in research to 440 determine Occupational Exposure Limit thresholds for platinum salts, as well as to determine an adequate 420 Inhalation Reference Concentration.
08 09 10 11 12 Financial year Mitigating Environmental Impacts Our total energy consumption in 2012 was 6,433.35 Mining can have an adverse impact on the natural Terajoules TJ, 1.5%% lower than in 2011 6,532.63 TJ.
Our fundamental approach to The energy intensity per unit of production increased environmental management is a precautionary one, by 5.5% from 2011 to 4.77GJ PGM oz.
based on a sound assessment of potential risks and their mitigation throughout the life cycle of our Electricity is our most significant indirect energy operations.
We seek compliance as a minimum with source 83.1% of total energy consumption in 2012 leading industry practice and continual improvement and amounted to 1,485,630MWh 2011: 1,496,842 forming the basis of our approach.
This represents a year-on-year decrease of 0.75%.
As an energy intensive sector, the mining All our operations have maintained ISO14001 certification.
industry was called upon to reduce its energy usage, particularly at times of peak demand.
With increases of 15% scheduled for the next two to three years, and Our closure liabilities carbon taxes due to be imposed on Eskom from 2014 Our rehabilitation obligations under the Minerals and likely to be passed on to consumers.
To withstand Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002 these costs we are exploring ways of diversifying our are fully provided for and we maintain ongoing electrical supply through development of renewable rehabilitation programmes in accordance with our projects and continuing to find new ways of improving environmental management plans and programmes.
Many of these projects involve partnerships with Eskom and the combined Energy Eskom Lonmin investment in these projects equates Lonmin is an intensive user of energy, particularly to R150 million.
fossil fuel generated non-renewable energy, and we recognise that we have a role to play both in mitigating climate change and in responding appropriately to its potential consequences.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Sustainability Review [ 55] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The projects we have been able to implement so far Lonmin has developed a carbon optimisation model have collectively contributed to an increase in our which quantifies the carbon stresses by source through electrical efficiency of 0.08MWh PGM oz since 2007. the value chain and forecasts scope 1, 2 and 3 These projects range from energy efficiency projects emissions.
The model serves as an input into strategic to peak load clipping and shifting projects.
The details planning and informs the feasibility for different of realised and anticipated savings are shown in the operational interventions that have the potential to chart below.
reduce greenhouse gases GHG emissions.
The model will remain dynamic in response to policy development and business conditions.
The model is structured to Annual realised and anticipated saving split provide the following: GHG emissions by source, GHG 1.06GWh emissions by activity, GHG intensity, Carbon Tax liability low-high scenarios and Carbon Tax liability 3.3% 0.3% 4.4% per activity.
39.6% 6.3% Air Optimisation Management of carbon emissions Ventilation Optimisation Our absolute GHG emissions have continued to rise Lighting in line with our increased electricity usage.
Lonmins Hot Water Generation carbon footprint was calculated in accordance with Renewable & the GHG Protocol: Corporate Accounting & Reporting Green Technologies Standard developed by the World Business Council Other for Sustainable Development and the World 46.1% Resources Institute as well as the ISO 14064 International Standard Part 1 for reporting of GHG Climate Change emissions and removals at the organisational level.
Lonmins Climate Change Response Strategy is The GHG Protocol divides emissions into three customised for Lonmin, and aligned with our categories: Corporate Business Strategy.
Specific tactics within Scope 1 direct emissions from sources owned the Corporate Strategy have been influenced by or under the operational control of the Company: Climate Change aspects, including global risks Scope 2 indirect emissions from the pertaining to climate change policy and consumption of purchased electricity: and competitiveness, resource management efficiency in Scope 3 indirect emissions an optional reporting terms of energy, water and waste management, and category allowing for other indirect emissions strengthening partnerships in cost management, associated but not controlled by the Company to operational efficiency and growth, which include be included.
The Lonmin total carbon footprint for 2012 is Lonmins Response Strategy to Climate Change estimated at 1,571,940 metric tonnes CO e, which 2 focuses on identifying risks, opportunities and represents a decrease of 76,403 tonnes or 4.6% adaptation measures.
As one of the first steps of this over the 2011 performance.
process, Lonmin conducted both a top-down and bottom-up risk and opportunity identification exercise Water in line with our risk process.
This involved conducting By 2012, South Africa has had 16 consecutive years structured interviews with key Lonmin staff across the of above average rainfall in the majority of summer business areas, ranging from supply chain, rainfall areas and in these areas the last major drought procurement, long-term planning, mining, processing, was more than two decades ago.
This trend is unlikely technical services, marketing, investor relations, to continue.
In the North West Province, where our environment, community and senior executives.
The Marikana operations are situated, the total water structured interview process involved mapping out all demand has recently been calculated at 97% of possible risks and opportunities pertaining to climate supply, with the minimal surplus only as a result of change within the business: building capacity within high rainfall periods between 2009 and 2011.
Lonmin with regard to climate change risks and opportunities: and assessing the likely impact of Our primary source of fresh water for Marikana is climate change on our operations.
We identified Rand Water, which transports water over the Magalies numerous climate change related risks across our Mountains to the Rustenburg area from the Vaal Dam business at operational and corporate levels.
In 2012, our total fresh water were separated into four risk categories physical, 3 3 intake amounted to 8,667,896m 2011: 7,912,595m regulatory, reputational and litigation.
Low, medium update, a year-on-year increase of 9.5%, but an and high potential scenarios were developed for overall decrease of 27% in fresh water consumption, priority risks.
We developed a financial model to help compared to our 2007 baseline.
us understand the potential implications of these risks Our Marikana Integrated Water Use Licence was and provide an initial indicative cost.
com Sustainability Review Lonmin Plc [ 56] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Preventing and minimising contamination Total suspended particulates As far as possible, our process water is maintained in Total suspended particulate emissions emanate from a closed system.
Any discharge incident is timeously the following sources at our Marikana operations: reported to define Department of Water Affairs, as stacks and buildings, windblown dust from tailings required in terms of the National Water Act, water facilities, drilling and blasting, material handling, samples are taken for analyses to determine water crushing and screening: unpaved roads and paved quality and compliance is checked against stipulated roads.
The chemical composition of this dust has effluent standards.
There has been a significant been independently tested and does not present a decrease in unplanned discharges from our return health risk.
On our tailings dams, dust suppression water dams and waste water treatment plants in measures include the use of chemical suppression in 2012.
There were eight incidents in 2012 compared the inner beach area on our larger tailings dams, pod to 19 in 2011.
The water quality results obtained from or floppy systems, the grassing of the side slopes and the analyses showed that the discharges had limited alternate deposition of tailings to keep the beach area impact on the receiving environment due to the wet and the grassing of the side slopes of the tailings corrective actions implemented by the operations.
All decommissioned tailings dams are vegetated on its side slopes and surface areas.
None of our discharges had a significant impact on any protected or  waterbodies.
Lonmin undertakes dust fallout monitoring within our We continue to monitor boreholes for potential operational and community areas.
Compliance to dust 2 groundwater contamination quarterly at the fallout within industrial areas is set at 1,200 mg m day 2 Marikana operations and bi-annually at Limpopo and and in residential areas at 600 mg m day.
Surface water quality is monitored monthly period of 12 months, Lonmin has maintained 91% at all operations.
We also conduct bio-monitoring compliance to the industrial standard and 89% analyses bi-annually to assess the status of the compliance with the residential standard.
aquatic biota in the rivers that flow through our mining right areas.
Waste management Our strategy is to improve our resource efficiency Addressing air quality extends to the reduction of waste generated as a Air quality management is a significant feature of our result of our operations.
Mining and metallurgical overall environmental strategy and relates directly to operations produce considerable amounts of general several of our focus areas.
Compliance with legislation and hazardous waste, which can degrade the and regulatory requirements is fundamental to surrounding environment unless properly managed.
maintaining our licence to operate, which makes It is likely that the total volume of waste generated air quality management a critical component of the by our operations, both general and hazardous, will long-term success of our business.
Through our increase over the life of our operations.
engagement with GLC residents, we are aware that Adequate waste management is also critical to many air quality is of significant concern to them.
stakeholder groups and we have this year partnered Our principal atmospheric emissions are sulphur with a waste management company to offer a waste dioxide SO from our Smelter and BMR Boiler.
removal service to the residents of the GLC.
The 2 We operate within our Atmosphere and Emissions project is still in pilot phase, but we believe it will in the Licence AEL, which was granted in January 2011 longer term assist of the surrounding communities under the new National Environmental Management Air that currently have no waste collection services.
The AEL conditions include that In 2012, a total of 24,691 tonnes of general waste the total SO in tonnes per day should be below 17.9.
2 was generated with 10,271 tonnes disposed to landfill In 2012, our average SO emissions from the Smelter and 14,420 tonnes recycled, re-used or refurbished.
2 was 8.5 tonnes per day, which includes the coal from Calcium sulphite is the largest component of our the BMR boiler, a decrease of 20% if compared to the hazardous waste to landfill and contribute 68% of our 10.58 tonnes per day average in 2011.
The significant overall waste to landfill this year.
A process has been improvement can be ascribed to increased initiated for the development of a Dynawave scrubbing performance in the availability and efficiency of the system to replace the older scrubbing technology at Sulphur Fixation Plant and the Air Pollution Control the Smelter, which currently generates a residue of Equipment during operating conditions.
The new technology would generate gypsum as a by-product, not a waste.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information 03 Directors Report Governance 58 Board of Directors 60 Executive Committee 61 Governance 81 Remuneration Committee Report
