Transformation and Lonmin Plc [ 26] Sustainability Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2012 At Lonmin we aim to entrench sustainable development throughout our value chain It guides our relationships with our many and varied This year we have made use of a number of formal stakeholders.
Our approach is about finding the reports to communicate how we are investing in our balance between financial and social value creation.
employees and the surrounding communities in order to demonstrate the implications of the recent events: We believe that sustainable development is paramount to the future of the Company, our employees and the This review provides a synopsis of our sustainability communities in which we operate.
We are able to performance.
contribute to the creation of sustainable value not only A Summary Sustainable Development Report that through our products, but also through our approach provides an overview of the most current material to the development of the people and communities issues Lonmin faces.
We believe that ours is a A more extensive online Sustainable Development journey, and that there is much that we still need to report, providing comprehensive and detailed learn and implement.
The devastating Events of information on our transformation and sustainability August and September 2012 at our Marikana performance.
operations have resulted in much reflection, as well as a renewed determination to accelerate progress on our sustainability journey.
What we believe We believe that we can make a difference.
We believe that, through our resources, our skilled and committed teams, and our partners, we have the capacity to create long-lasting value for all our stakeholders.
Supporting these beliefs are the following three pillars: PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT These three pillars provide the framework for understanding the complex sustainability aspects within our environment and their interconnectedness.
We use the Five Capital Model to underpin this understanding, and to indicate the different types of capital used to deliver products and services within Lonmin.
These include: social, human, natural, financial and manufactured capital.
Our social licence Lonmin respects the rights of its employees to The Board supports the view that delivering on our freedom of association and union representation if transformation and social responsibility obligations they so choose.
Recognised trade unions negotiate are an essential element of the Companys licence terms and conditions of employment on behalf of their to operate in South Africa, both legally in terms of its members with a particular focus on wage increases.
commitments under the Mining Charter and more The Company conducts collective bargaining with importantly as a good corporate citizen of the country.
unions it knows to represent more than 50% of the We have set transformation goals which were relevant workforce.
A union with over 33% membership established in line with the Mining Charter and are is eligible for partial recognition.
A recognition agreement aligned to our Social Labour Plan SLP commitments.
confirms that the employer accepts the trade union We recognise that we have delivered more slowly in as a bargaining agent.
Within the agreements the some areas than in others and need to accelerate our rules of engagement and the rights of the employer efforts working more closely and cooperatively with are stipulated.
As at 30 September, 80.8% of our key stakeholders.
employees were members of a recognised union or covered by an agency shop agreement 2011: 55.5%.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Transformation and [ 27] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sustainability Overview The Farlam Judicial Commission of Inquiry on the The events at Marikana and the recent strikes across the Marikana tragedy began in the first week of October and industry accelerated our efforts to seek more effective its outcomes are expected to guide our approach to stakeholder engagement.
We have developed scenarios collective bargaining.
that give consideration to those challenges that we are facing.
Industry negotiations around a centralised Trade union membership as at 30 Sept 2012 bargaining forum have commenced and we are playing our part.
NUM 19% Human Rights AMCU We believe in the importance of internalising internationally CEPPWAW Union 3% recognised standards of human rights.
We believe that the Solidarity 4% policies and practices in place at our operations fully UASA No Union reflect the legislative requirements of South Africa, 1% including the Bill of Rights contained in the South African Constitution, together with the Companies Act in the 21% 52% United Kingdom, where we have our primary listing.
Our Human Rights Policy was developed in line with these principles to assist the Company in its goal of upholding We have focused our efforts to maintain our social licence international human rights through all of its dealings and on the following areas during the year: operations.
As stated in our policy we record and report Stakeholder engagement any credible allegations of human rights abuses by public Human rights or private security within our area of operations to the Transformation, comprising of employee appropriate authorities, and where necessary we will development, housing and community investment monitor investigations to completion and ensure actions Safety are taken to prevent reoccurrences.
Health Training on human rights and business ethics is included Creating value in our induction programme and in our annual refresher However we also believe that we have a responsibility to course in which all employees participate.
We also provide minimises the environmental impacts of our operations an Ethics Hotline, a phone-in service available to anyone to an absolute minimum, and we achieve this through involved in our operations.
The service is provided by an resource management and efficiency, and the successful independent third party and is a secure and anonymous mitigation of environmental impacts.
Our environmental channel that can be used to report any conduct of overview is provided on page 54. concern in the Company.
Our security services are aligned with the relevant national Stakeholder Engagement legislation and the United Nations basic Principles on the Regular and transparent engagement with our Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials.
stakeholders is a fundamental aspect of our Sustainable Lonmin has a security code of conduct, which governs Development Strategy.
the actions of our security staff.
Training for all employees Our stakeholders are those individuals and groups, formal and contractors in these roles include dedicated modules and informal, who affect or are affected by Lonmins on human rights and is set according to the South African decisions and activities.
We also take the needs Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority.
communicated by our interested and affected parties into account as well as those groups not directly affected by Transformation Lonmin, but who may have indirect interests in or influence We have worked with determination to accomplish the on our business.
Our stakeholders include our shareholders goals we set ourselves on transformation and made and potential investors, our employees, local communities, significant achievements in many areas, notably in our contractors, unions, municipalities, various provincial and education programmes for our communities and in the local government departments, non-governmental number of Historically Disadvantaged South African HDSA organisations, inter-governmental departments, business employees within our management structures which stands partners, suppliers, customers, and the media.
at 36% excluding white women and in our initiatives to procure from HDSA managed and owned suppliers.
Our While our respective engagement methods vary for gender related policies and procedures designed to different stakeholders, they are all governed by the increase the participation of women in the Company have approach set out in our Stakeholder Engagement had some success, with the number of women at the Protocol, which is currently being reviewed and updated.
Company having grown by 9.4% from last year.
Due to the recent events we believe this review is required to better equip us to understand our stakeholders.
We remain committed to an appropriately skilled and diverse workforce as the foundation to the success of The review process is ongoing and we have set out to our business.
Our success is dependent on our ability to address four critical questions: support our existing employees and for it to be more than 1.
Which stakeholders are most relevant to Lonmin?
We aim to attract and retain our employees, 2.
What are the issues that matter to those develop them as leaders and invest in the transformation stakeholders?
of our Company to be more representative of HDSAs.
How influential and visible are these stakeholders?
We provide more information on employee development 4.
How do we best engage with these stakeholders?
com Transformation and Lonmin Plc [ 28] Sustainability Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Because transformation is such a critical component environments.
It is the implicit and explicit acceptance of our licence to operate, the Board established a or approval granted and, indeed, earned by the Transformation Committee to review the progress we Company from local communities and other are making in this area to ensure that the Company stakeholders.
We know we need to engage with meets or exceeds its commitments and obligations communities on an ongoing basis to ensure the in relation to transformation.
Our Board Committees continuation of social licence.
Lonmins community are discussed on page 61. investment programme reflects that our SLP community commitments are a response to some Two particular areas of focus are housing and our of these challenges.
We have invested around relationship with our communities.
In addition, to the investment in the SLP community projects the Community Company also invested in additional community We believe in the contribution to long-term social, projects that are not covered in the current SLP economic and infrastructural development in the commitments.
We have a holistic approach to sustainability of our operations, and that of the people community investment and focus on community affected by our activities.
Securing our social licence education, community health and local economic to operate is much more than achieving compliance development.
Details of these projects are discussed to operate within current and future regulatory on page 51.
Housing and Living Conditions Addressing the critical shortage of affordable housing Affordable housing in our regions of operation, particularly around In 1998, the Marikana Housing Development Corporation Marikana, is a multi-faceted challenge that requires MHDC was set up to build houses in the area of careful consideration and the support and co-operation Marikana Extension 1 to sell or rent to employees and of both regional and national government.
to members of the community.
This has had the added benefit of providing contracts and opportunities to We have committed to providing all employees with community based suppliers, where possible, and has accommodation options that are affordable and contributed to the general socio-economic development secure and that allow for decent standards of living.
Lonmin also provides financial advice and The living conditions of our employees have a direct assistance with loans and rent-to-buy options, to influence on their general wellbeing and on their ability encourage home ownership, although the uptake here to succeed in their working environments.
Achieving has been less than satisfactory.
Of the 1,149 homes that this ambition though is likely to be costly and time we have built to date, only 242 have been sold.
consuming, and is not something that Lonmin will be able to achieve in isolation.
Long-term housing programme The challenges we face are to facilitate the provision Housing alone does not provide an integrated solution of mass affordable employee accommodation for our for longer term sustainability and it is government policy workforce, to find available and suitable land on our to transform the countrys residential areas and build property, shortage of water and electricity, to deal with communities with closer access to work and social increased pressure on basic services and to tackle the amenities.
There has been a fundamental shift in the lack of interest in home ownership.
approach to housing in South Africa.
A redirection of policy was brought about in 2004, through the Our housing strategy aims to address these challenges Comprehensive Plan for the Development of Sustainable and comprises three elements: transforming existing Human Settlement, commonly known as Breaking New structures, affordable housing and the long-term Ground.
The key objectives of this plan are the promotion housing programme.
of densification and the provision of social and community services in combination with residential developments, Transforming existing structures in order to build spatially, economically and socially Lonmin has four existing hostels: Karee, Wonderkop, sustainable communities.
Eastern Platinum and Middlekraal, comprising 146 A pilot project along this theme is already under blocks, all of which are currently undergoing conversion to either single or family unit accommodation.
Of development in Marikana Extension 2 and progress will be reported in 2013.
Of the 863 serviced stands that these 146 blocks, we converted 18 prior to 2006.
In alignment with the SLP housing commitments we belong to the MHDC, 17 have been rezoned for the erection of five apartment blocks.
aim to convert all our remaining hostels 128 blocks into single units and family units by 2014.
To date we have converted 79 of the 128 old style hostels into Living out allowance single and family units.
Initially aimed at encouraging employees to exit hostels and to take responsibility for their own accommodation, a We aim to complete the programme of converting all living out allowance was introduced at Lonmin and indeed existing hostel blocks and then to investigate the across the industry.
The living out allowance has also option of erecting new units in the open spaces in the been a fixed agenda item for annual wage negotiations.
immediate vicinity of the converted blocks, making This allowance was set at R1,850 US$230 per month.
effective use of the resources and assets already With this allowance, employees may elect to seek their available to us.
own accommodation, including the newly converted 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Transformation and [ 29] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sustainability Overview hostel units for families and single accommodation, We support the governments commitment to enforcing if available.
It is estimated that rental at the informal mine safety legislation.
This year Lonmin was issued with 37 settlements are market related, ranging from approximately Section 54 notifications from the Department of Mineral R200 US$25 to R1,200 US$149 per month.
Our safety achievements are at our converted units is at an average of R350 US$43 covered comprehensively in our Operational Review, though per month for both family and single accommodation and increased interaction between the Chief inspector of Mines has not been increased for five years.
The former excludes and discussions with the Minister of Mineral Resources have water, lights and transport, and the latter is inclusive of helped our understanding of increased monitoring efforts by these costs.
While this payment has proved to be a popular the DMR.
More information is provided on pages 49 and 50. option, better regulation is required to ensure that the allowance is indeed spent on adequate accommodation Health that is in line with the minimum living standards we are trying We are committed to honouring our health and safety to achieve for our employees.
We are investigating options values and sustaining an environment that promotes the to train employees on personal financial management health and wellbeing of our employees and contractors.
as well as to improve employees understanding about Our workplace health programmes are aligned with our this allowance.
goal of zero harm to people, and include not only management and treatment programmes, but also Safety prevention programmes.
Safety is a priority in everything we do and we continue to We offer employees and their registered dependents work on improving our performance.
It is with deep regret comprehensive healthcare through our medical services that we report the deaths of two employees at work unit, delivering cost-effective quality healthcare and a during the year.
We extend our condolences to their comprehensive workplace disease management families and colleagues.
On a more positive side we programme.
Our Health Department is responsible for have achieved the lowest Lost time Injury Frequency Rate healthcare delivery, occupational health and hygiene LTIFR amongst the primary producers in the South African policies, standards, monitoring and auditing.
Line platinum industry of 4.16 per million man hours worked, management is responsible for maintaining occupational 11.7% lower than the 4.71 in 2011. health and hygiene standards in the workplace.
On page 53 we provide further information on our health programmes.
Creating Value Mining plays an important and positive role in our national and indeed regional economies, particularly in contributing to broad based economic development and poverty alleviation.
Our value-added statement below demonstrates the Companys contribution to the creation of wealth, and the resulting rewards disbursed to labour, capital and the state.
Value-added statement for year ended 30 September 2012 2012 2011 Variance $m $m % Net Cash Generated Customers, consumers and investment income Cash received for products 1,663 2,226 25 % Cash returns on investment 4 3 33% 1 Suppliers Cash payments for materials and services purchased 690 641 8% Cost of borrowings 31 39 21 % Net cash flows 946 1,549 39 % Cash Distributed Human capital salaries & benefits 755 796 5 % Social capital 10.0 8.8 14% Donations 0.4 1.1 64 % 2 Other community projects 9.6 7.7 25% Government taxes 30 40 25 % Directors remuneration 4 7 43 % Shareholders distribution 31 30 3% Cash retained for sustainable growth 116 667 83 % Net cash distributed 946 1,549 39 % 1 We have a 30 day payment policy on services and procurement 2 Inclusive of salary and administrative costs Our Preferential Procurement Strategy is aimed at BEE and supplier development.
We have aligned our targets for preferential procurement in our supply chain to that of the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry.
When the Mining Charter was revised in September 2010, it increased the empowerment requirements for qualification as a black owned entity.
The implementation of these new requirements resulted in our measured expenditure declining from 69.7% in 2010 to 34.5% in 2011.
Pleasingly, this year preferential procurement spent on capital goods was 50.43%, 63.74% of services and 54.2% of consumables.
