Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 32 Our people Our people are at the very heart of our business: responsible for delivering our OUR PEOPLE HIGHLIGHTS business plans and making M&S special for our customers.
We employ over Total employees 81,000 people around the world and throughout the year we worked hard to equip them with the skills to drive our business forward.
New initiatives have 81,000 boosted engagement and helped employees better understand the crucial role they play in delivering our great products and service.
Employees with over five years service Actions against our plan training programme, Lead to Succeed, to include new International and 50% Embedded a new structure to support Multi-channel modules.
We also better our growth ambitions Employees with over ten aligned management programmes to years service Developed an international HR tool kit ensure future leaders develop the right skills to support our growth plans.
28% Tailored our training programmes to reect business plans The success of our new store format is dependent on our employees bringing it Over the last 12 months we embedded a to life for customers.
With this in mind, new organisational structure to support we rolled out a comprehensive training our business strategy.
This included the package completing almost 90,000 integration of the International buying and hours of store training.
Initially in our marketing teams into our core business, Food Halls, the training focused on as well as establishing a new regional enhancing product knowledge, as well structure for International.
We began work as the specialist skills required for new to provide more consistent HR support to departments such as delis.
our 6,450 international employees: translating our HR tool kit into 18 Employee engagement languages and reviewing our international Despite a challenging trading benets to align with our UK offer.
environment, our annual Your Say employee survey showed improving This year, we made key senior engagement scores, with positivity management appointments to support remaining broadly level at 75%.
The our international and multi-channel results showed a strong correlation ambitions.
We continued to build a between high engagement and pipeline of future talent: recruiting over performance: with stores in the top 180 graduates, including our first quartile of engagement achieving 8% International graduate intake opposite.
higher mystery shop scores than those Looking ahead For the first time we also offered five in the bottom quartile.
With the Governments specialist E-commerce roles, to pension auto-enrolment strengthen our Multi-channel team.
We continued to drive engagement changes effective from through our communications channels With a high volume of applications for October 2012 our new to ensure employees understand our both graduate and store positions, we pension plan will be in business plans and the part they play.
manage the initial stages of recruitment place from summer 2012.
2011 12 was the first full year of The online.
This year we made the process This will ensure we can BIG Idea, in which a director challenges more efficient, adding a new interactive meet the legislative employees to come up with improved questionnaire designed to better requirements efficiently ways of working, such as How can we evaluate a candidates attitude to whilst retaining a markethelp more customers shop both online customer service and improve the leading scheme.
More than 2,000 quality of stage two applicants.
tandem, we will continue responses were received for each to develop our HR function Learning and development quarterly question.
to support the future plans In line with our business strategy, we of the business.
broadened the content of our agship Plan A: 5,000th the homeless, disabled, Marks & Start placement lone parents and young Launched in 2004, our Marks unemployed by providing & Start work experience work experience.
Over 40% programme has helped over of participants go on to full 5,000 people into the time employment and we workplace.
Working with four plan to increase placements charity partners, we support offered in 2012 13.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 33 M&S People System Our new online system has introduced more efficient processes to our stores and ofces.
Employees can now remotely book time off and around 90% have opted to receive online payslips.
Featuring a salary exchange scheme, it allows employees to exchange their gross salary for benets of the same value such as childcare vouchers and a cycle to work offer.
Engage Worldwide talent In 2011 we launched an international graduate programme, recruiting eight graduates from India, China, Hong Kong, Greece and Poland.
Five Peaks In addition to their local region, each graduate Challenge spent a month in the UK working in our In June, 33 climbers stores and ofces.
from our Retail team scaled the five tallest peaks in the British Isles in 48 hours.
They raised more than 1m for Breakthrough Breast Cancer, the Marie Keating Foundation and Action Cancer.
Their efforts were supported by a full weekend of activities in M&S stores and ofces across the UK.
Business Sharesave Involvement October 2011 marked Groups the 30th anniversary Our Business of our award winning Involvement Groups Sharesave scheme.
represent all our Participation increased employees and for the second year comprise 3,600 elected running, up 33% since representatives from 2009.
This year 11,000 participants they consulted on key of Sharesave 2008 projects including the shared gains of over roll out of our store 65 million.
