58 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2012 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Trade loans In common with other major brewers, the Group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the Groups beer.
These trade loans are classied as other non-current assets in the balance sheet and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
significant trade loans are secured against the property of the loan recipient.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits on call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
For the purpose of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Preference shares are classied as liabilities.
The dividends on these preference shares are recognised in the income statement as finance costs.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, except for gross interest costs incurred on the nancing of major projects, which are capitalised until the time that the projects are available for use.
Trade payables and other payables Trade payables and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Employee benefits Pension costs for the Groups dened benefit pension scheme are determined by the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial calculations being carried out at each period end date.
Costs are recognised separately as operating and finance costs in the income statement.
Operating costs comprise the current service cost, any income or expenses on settlements or curtailments and past service costs where the benets have vested.
Finance items comprise the interest on scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets.
Actuarial gains or losses comprising differences between the actual and expected return on scheme assets, changes in scheme liabilities due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
The liability asset recognised in the balance sheet for the dened benefit pension scheme is the present value of scheme liabilities less the fair value of scheme assets.
Where the fair value of scheme assets exceeds the present value of scheme liabilities, the Group recognises an asset at the lower of the fair value of scheme assets less the present value of scheme liabilities, and the total of any cumulative unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any economic benets available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Pension costs for the Groups dened contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Post-retirement medical benets are accounted for in an identical way to the Groups dened benefit pension scheme.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are those who have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
In the case of Marstons PLC, the Directors of the Group are considered to be the only key management personnel.
