Financial review Operating results for the year ended 31 May 2006 Revenue Operating profit Return on revenue 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m % % Banking 265 248 37 41 14 17 Healthcare 314 304 49 45 15 15 Sesame 370 313 9 5 2 2 Group 9 9 Like for like results 949 865 86 82 9 10 Changes in exchange rates 16 2 Profit on disposal of WebMD common stock 3 Disposals 6 1 Acquisitions 4 Adjusted results 953 855 86 84 Exceptional items 28 12 Other 2 Statutory operating results from continuing operations 953 855 56 72 i.
The statutory operating profit from continuing operations is analysed by business into Banking 22.3m 2005: 40.9m, Healthcare 45.4m 2005: 42.6m, Sesame 1.9m loss 2005: 5.3m loss and Group costs 10.0m 2005: 6.4m.
Restating the results for 2005 using the average exchange rates for 2006 has increased 2005 revenues by 16.8m Banking: 3.4m and Healthcare: 13.4m and operating profit 2.5m Banking: 0.3m, Healthcare: 2.2m.
The most significant impact is from the movement in the US dollar, where the average exchange rate in 2006 was US$1.78:1 compared to US$1.86:1 in 2005. iii.
Profit on disposal of WebMD common stock of nil 2005: 2.7m are included within Group costs.
The businesses disposed of in the current year related solely to Sesame and contributed revenue of 0.4m in the current year 2005: 6.4m and adjusted operating loss of 0.1m 2005: 0.9m profit.
v. The businesses acquired in the current and prior year contributed incremental revenue and adjusted operating profit for Banking: revenue of 1.7m and profit of 0.4m and for Healthcare: revenue 2.3m and losses of 0.8m.
Exceptional items consist of: Restructuring programme in Banking 13.9m 2005: nil : Acquisition integration costs in Healthcare 2.0m 2005: nil : Profit on disposal of associate in Sesame 8.0m 2005: nil : Loss on disposal of businesses in Sesame 2.8m 2005: 2.7m : Estimated costs and redress payments associated with regulatory reviews and complaints in Sesame 15.7m 2005: 8.9m and Discontinued disposal costs in Group 1.4m 2005: nil.
Other items include gains on embedded derivatives in Banking 0.3m 2005: nil and amortisation of acquired intangibles in Banking 1.9m 2005: 0.3m and Healthcare 0.5m 2005: nil.
Page 32 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 To assist the readers understanding of the results the table Maintenance revenue at 121m, 3% ahead of last year, showed opposite shows the results for all businesses owned throughout stronger growth than in the last couple of years, reflecting growth both periods on a like for like basis and also reconciles these to in ILF and the continued stability of our large installed customer the figures for revenue and operating profit on an adjusted basis base.
Professional services revenue was flat at 48m, principally and as reported in the income statement.
During the year we reflecting the impact of the contract deferrals highlighted at the disposed of the General Insurance business and the results for time of our AGM trading update.
General Insurance are excluded from revenue and operating profit from continuing operations and are included at the foot of Operating profit at 37m was 10% behind last year, principally the income statement, just above attributable profits.
Accordingly, reflecting the contract deferrals, with operating margin at 14% General Insurance does not appear in the reconciliation above.
for the full year 2005: 17%, having been 12% in the first half.
The like for like results are stated before exceptional items, gains During the year we brought together our Retail and Wholesale and losses on embedded derivatives, amortisation of acquired banking operations as Core Banking, and have integrated the intangibles and profit on disposal of WebMD common stock.
Basel II compliance solution, Almonde into that business unit.
We They also exclude the results of businesses disposed of and the are retaining our Risk Vision business and focussing it on serving incremental benefit of acquisitions.
Figures are quoted in sterling our existing customers.
As a result of this restructuring, which was using average exchange rates for the year ended 31 May 2006. announced at the time of our Interim Statement, the division has incurred an exceptional charge of 14m including a 3m write-off Adjusted results are stated before exceptional items, gains and of capitalised development costs relating to Risk Vision.
This losses on embedded derivatives and amortisation of acquired charge was within the expected range indicated at the time of our intangibles.
Interim Statement and we expect to achieve cost savings of about 15m in the financial year ending 31 May 2007 which will be largely reinvested in the business, particularly in product development.
Healthcare Group and divisional performance Group all figures in millions 2006 2005 Information in this section relating to the Group and divisional ILF order intake 55 58 performance and within revenue profile are on a like for like basis as defined and presented above unless otherwise stated.
Closing ILF order book 27 29 Revenue for the year at 949m was 10% above that of the Revenue at 314m was 3% ahead of last year overall with previous year.
Banking, Healthcare and Sesame all reported maintenance and professional services revenue growing strongly.
Operating profit at 86m was 5% ahead of last year whilst the operating margin was slightly below last year.
Order intake for professional services was ahead in all businesses Operating profit in Banking declined, but both Healthcare and resulting in revenue growth of 11% in the year to 34m.
This Sesame delivered strong increases.
growth reflects the increasing importance of professional services in our total order intake mix.
ILF revenue was down 4% at 57m Banking and ILF order intake also decreased by 4% to 55m.
We continue to see stronger demand for Misys EMR and Misys Homecare all figures in millions 2006 2005 which has resulted in strong growth in order intake from new clients.
This growth was more than offset by reduced ILF order ILF order intake 84 77 intake in both Hospital Systems and upgrade sales to our existing Closing ILF order book 31 31 physician customers.
The reduction in Hospital Systems is partly a result of a change in sales mix with a higher proportion of the Overall, Banking delivered solid growth with total revenue at contract value being related to professional services.
Initial Licence Fees ILF order intake at 84m was 8% ahead of the prior year, resulting in strong growth Maintenance revenue showed good growth at 123m, 8% ahead in ILF revenue, up 15% for the full year.
The closing order book at of last year, demonstrating the strength of our installed customer 31m was in line with last year.
Transaction services revenue was flat at 68m.
Operating profit at 49m was 9% ahead of last year, reflecting an improvement in the operating margin from 14.7% to 15.4%.
Page 33 Financial review continued Sesame Endowment complaints During the past two years, along with the rest of the industry, Sesame has experienced a significant increase in the volume Number of RIs at 31 May 2006 2005 of complaints from consumers about advice given by IFAs regarding the sales of endowment policies.
This is due to Sesame Network RIs 4,300 5,050 increased consumer awareness, poor stock market performance Sesame Direct RIs 2,400 3,100 over the life of the policies and action taken by the majority of product providers to crystallise their liabilities with regard Sesame Select RIs 700 to past endowment complaints.
Given the levels of endowment 7,400 8,150 complaints that were being received, the increasing rate at which they were being upheld and the expectation that the volumes Gross cash received per Network RI 000 74 59 of future complaints were going to be significant, last year a provision was made for the Directors best estimate of the costs Revenue at 370m was 18% higher than in the prior year.
associated with complaints that were to be received in the future This reflects a significant increase in RI productivity, including with respect to past sales of endowments.
During the year strong take-up of Sesames mortgage offerings in an investment these estimates have been reviewed and updated to reflect the climate that was generally more positive than in recent years.
Directors current best estimate of the costs associated with Encouragingly over 1,000 financial advisers were recruited into complaints that are to be received in the future based on the the Sesame Select open multi-tie proposition, with 700 having actual experience over the last year.
This reassessment of the begun trading, since launch last July.
As expected, a number of provision for future endowment complaints together with similar these advisers have transferred from our existing propositions, assessments of the other regulatory review provisions which contributing to a reduction in the membership of both Sesame when created were treated as exceptional last year, has resulted Network and Sesame Direct.
Operating profit at 9m was well in a further net exceptional charge in the current year of 16m.
ahead of last year and the operating margin improved slightly The additional charge arising from this reassessment of the to just over 2%, in part as a result of favourable timing effects.
future endowment complaints provision is consistent with the experience of others in the industry that have had to reassess Group costs and increase previous provisions.
The net charge for the year, at 9m, is broadly in line with last year.
Other exceptional items Exceptional items Further details of other exceptional items can be found in note A net exceptional charge of 28m for continuing operations 2 to the financial statements and principally relate to profits has been made this year mainly in respect of the restructuring and losses on disposal of businesses together with acquisition programme within Banking and additional provisions in respect integration costs and costs related to the terminated disposal of regulatory reviews and endowment complaint costs within process for Sesame.
In the prior period a net operating exceptional charge of 12m principally related to regulatory review and future endowment complaints costs.
Revenue profile 2006 2006 2005 Statutory Like for like Like for like Continuing operations m % m % m % ILF 144 15 144 15 132 15 Maintenance 246 26 246 26 234 27 Transaction Processing 447 47 445 47 387 45 Professional Services 84 9 82 9 80 9 Hardware 32 3 32 3 32 4 953 100 949 100 865 100 Page 34 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Revenue may be analysed under five generic headings, being Finance costs ILF, maintenance including recurring licence fees RLF, The interest and other finance costs charge at 16m was 6m transaction processing, professional services and hardware.
This was due mainly to increased average ILF is the revenue generated when Misys sells the right to use a interest rates and a small increase in average borrowings, the software product including significant upgrades to a customer.
latter due to the share buyback programme towards the end When a customer buys software they also enter into either of the year ended 31 May 2005 and during the year ended a maintenance or RLF contract.
Interest cover, including results from discontinued technical support or trouble-shooting assistance helpdesk, etc.
operations and before exceptional items, gains and losses on In addition, a maintenance contract provides routine upgrades embedded derivatives and amortisation of acquired intangibles, and enhancements.
Maintenance also includes fees for support was slightly more than six times.
Profit before taxation Related to some products, Misys provides transaction processing Statutory profit before taxation, at 39m, was 22m below last services, comprising both EDI services, being an electronic link year reflecting the increased charge for exceptional items and between parties who wish to exchange data, and computer aided higher financing costs.
The tax charge on ongoing ordinary processing activities, such as data centre capabilities or Internet activities at 15m is broadly in line with last year.
Misys undertakes both forms of transaction effective tax rate, based on the adjusted profit before taxation processing in Sesame: while Healthcare and to a much lesser of continuing and discontinued operations, at 18% was slightly extent in Banking currently focuses on EDI.
Adjusted profit before taxation excludes exceptional items, gains and losses on embedded derivatives, On a like for like basis, all revenue streams have recorded growth amortisation of acquired intangibles and exchange gains and in the current year.
The strongest growth was in transaction losses on debt previously hedging goodwill written off to processing driven by the strong performance in Sesame.
also grew strongly up 9% driven by another strong performance in Banking.
Maintenance revenues also showed good growth at Acquisitions and disposals 5% compared with a growth rate of 4% last year driven by an Within Banking, the Group acquired Almonde Inc in July 2005, increase in the rate of growth in both Healthcare and Banking.
INTESIO GmbH in February 2006 and NEOMAlogic SARL in March Professional services showed more muted growth up 4% 2006, for a total consideration, including expenses, of 29m, compared with last year with stronger growth in Healthcare which resulted in goodwill of 13m.
Since we were already acting and in Banking remaining in line with last year following certain as agent for Almonde there are no incremental results for this contract deferrals during the year as discussed earlier.
Excluding Almonde, the acquisitions have contributed revenues are less significant due both to their size and their 1.5m revenue and 0.6m operating profit in the period since lower margin and were in line with last year.
Within the Healthcare business, the Group acquired Payerpath Inc in January 2006, along with other assets in the physicians market in March 2006, for a total consideration, including expenses, Other financial information of 31m, resulting in goodwill of 20m.
The acquisitions have contributed revenue of 2.3m and operating losses of 2.8m in the Unless otherwise stated, the information in this section is period since acquisition, of which 2.0m of acquisition integration presented on an as reported basis.
costs has been disclosed as an exceptional item.
Deferred income Within Sesame, the Group disposed of its 60% shareholding Deferred income on the balance sheet, which represents in AssureWeb Ltd in July 2005 and its 29% investment in First amounts invoiced but not yet recognised as revenue, is 119m Software UK Ltd in August 2005 for total net consideration of 2005: 117m on a reported basis.
Within the overall balance, 11m, realising a combined profit in the year of 5m which has 84m 2005: 80m relates to deferred maintenance fees which been disclosed as an exceptional item.
The revenue and losses are generally invoiced annually in advance and recognised over for AssureWeb up to the date of disposal were 0.4m and 0.1m the contract period.
The remaining 35m 2005: 37m relates respectively 2005: 6.4m revenue and 1.8m operating loss to amounts invoiced for products and services that have not yet after an impairment of assets of 2.7m disclosed as an been delivered, completed or fully accepted by the customer at exceptional item in 2005. the balance sheet date.
The reduction reflects the disposal of General Insurance and adjusting for this the amount is in line with last year.
Page 35 Financial review continued Discontinued operations Earnings per share and proposed dividend During the year the Group disposed of the General Insurance Basic EPS at 44.0p was 31.6p above last year, principally due to the business which has been shown under discontinued operations.
profit on the disposal of the General Insurance business.
Adjusted In the current year, this business generated profit after tax of EPS adjusted to exclude exceptional items, gains and losses on 187m comprising the realised profit on disposal of 172m after embedded derivatives, amortisation of acquired intangibles and taxation and an operating profit and profit after taxation of 15m exchange gains and losses on debt previously hedging goodwill up to the date of disposal on 5 May 2006.
The prior year figure written off to reserves at 14.3p 2005: 14.8p was 3% below of 16m relates to the operating profit and profit after taxation last year.
In the opinion of the Directors the adjusted basic EPS for the whole of the year ended 31 May 2005.
In calculating the provides more comparable and representative information on adjusted EPS figures, the operating profits noted above have continuing and established trading activities of the Group.
The been included within this calculation whereas the realised profit Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.49p per share.
This on disposal of 172m after taxation has been excluded.
will raise the full year dividend to 7.18p, an increase of 5% over last year.
Cash flow and net debt The Group has maintained its strong cash performance with net IFRS cash flow generated from operations of 107m 2005: 100m.
Misys has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards This good performance, which follows equally strong cash IFRS as adopted by the European Union and with those parts generation in prior years, results from the Groups rigorous of the Companies Act 1985 that are applicable to companies focus on cash and cash management by operating businesses.
reporting under IFRS from 1 June 2005 with a transition date of 1 June 2004.
Comparative figures for the year ended 31 May Cash payments in respect of both interest and taxation of 16m 2005 and the balance sheet at 31 May 2005 that were previously and 15m respectively, are broadly in line with the charge in the reported in accordance with accounting principles generally income statement.
These cash outflows were significantly ahead accepted in the United Kingdom, have been restated to comply of the prior year as a result of higher financing costs, mainly as with IFRS, with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: a result of higher prevailing interest rates, and the timing of the Disclosures and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: settlement of taxation charges.
As a result net cash flow from Recognition and Measurement which have been applied operating activities of 76m was 7m below last year.
Capitalised expenditure on developed software and other capital The most significant impacts of transition to IFRS on net assets expenditure totalled 23m compared with 20m last year.
are the removal of amortisation of goodwill and the capitalisation Accordingly the net cash flow generated by operating activities of development costs, which along with share-based payments after capitalised development costs and other capital expenditure also effect the income statement.
There has been no impact on was 54m compared with 63m last year.
the underlying cash flows generated by the businesses.
Dividend payments in the full year, being last years final dividend Further information on the transition to IFRS, including a and this years interim dividend totalled 34m in line with last year reconciliation of retained profit for the year ended 31 May 2005 as the increase in the dividend per share was offset by the effect of and shareholders equity at 1 June 2004 and 31 May 2005, is the shares repurchased both this year and at the end of last year.
shown in note 38 to the financial statements.
During the year the Group has repurchased a further 12m shares at a cost of 25m compared with 53m last year for 26m shares.
The net cash inflow from corporate activities i. e. proceeds from Risk factors disposals less the cost of acquisitions was a net inflow in the year of 119m compared with an outflow last year of 9m.
In Our business is influenced by a number of risks and the more the year just ended, this principally related to the disposal of significant of these are described below.
However the financial the General Insurance business which raised net cash of performance of our business could be adversely affected not only 180m, offset by net cash consideration of 51m in respect of by these factors but also by the risks that we do not presently acquisitions during the year.
The principal acquisition was consider to be significant or by other risks that are presently in respect of Payerpath within the Healthcare business.
Not all of the risks that are identified below are under the direct control of Misys but in most cases we have built As a result of these various cash flows net debt at 31 May 2006 systems and controls into the Group operations to monitor and, was 95m compared with 219m last year.
where possible, mitigate the potential damage that could result from these risks see also the Corporate governance report.
Page 36 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Risks arising from the markets in which we operate may contain undetected errors, failures, performance problems or defects.
The early releases of a product will have been Economic cycles subjected to beta tests but not the more stringent test of The market demand for the products offered by our Banking and widespread use by large numbers of users.
Consequently, Sesame businesses are sensitive to an economic downturn.
The despite rigorous pre release testing, problems may not become strength of the revenues of the Banking business is reliant upon apparent until the system is used in production environments.
banks continuing to seek competitive advantage and greater Certain Healthcare products will need to meet with the efficiencies from technology and this encourages them to make regulations imposed by the US Food and Drug Administration, further investments in this area.
Such investments are more which impose high standards of quality assurance that become likely to be made during periods of economic growth.
The same an inherent part of our procedures.
However the ultimate risk of can be said of Sesame which owes its revenues to the success patient harm remains.
The product development teams network of the member firms which it services and this can be related to extensively amongst themselves and beyond to ensure best economic growth particularly in the UK.
However the Healthcare practice is followed.
business is not considered to be as sensitive to the state of the economy, as the US propensity to spend on healthcare has been Risks arising from operations somewhat insensitive to the condition of the US economy.
People Strategy Our people are our greatest asset and the market for quality The markets in which we operate move quickly.
Entering and technology skills and management is very competitive.
It exiting new segments of the market, developing new products consequently remains a constant challenge to retain, develop, and discontinuing others can have substantial lead times.
To do incentivise, manage and motivate our staff.
If we were to lose the this successfully we need to predict both future areas of demand services of members of management or employees who possess and also the future capabilities of our competitors.
At times it is specialised market knowledge and technology skills, we may not difficult to obtain quality information on the changing demands be able to manage our operations effectively or develop new of the market which may result in decisions needing to be made application software products and services.
We therefore take with imperfect data.
Failure in this area could result in our talent management very seriously.
Our people are appraised making investments in the wrong product or failing to invest regularly, given individual development plans and other incentive in a product that will enjoy a successful market.
In view of these packages.
Potential successors are identified for all senior roles.
risks the strategy adopted is comprehensively communicated throughout the senior management team and the Contract implementation implementation of this strategy is regularly reviewed.
Misys prides itself on being seen as a business partner to its customers and supplying them with mission critical systems.
Often Acquisitions and disposals the system will transcend departmental boundaries within the One of our key strategic objectives going forward is to seek clients organisation and may be a part of a larger project involving acquisition opportunities with a view to complementing our other suppliers.
The process of introducing a system in such an existing product and services portfolio.
Consequently we environment may be disruptive to the client in the short term and regularly acquire or dispose of companies.
This gives rise to the implementation may be subject to project management by the execution risks in identifying and valuing the target, managing client or by others.
Consequently our large contracts, such as the process to best advantage and integrating or separating the some of the contracts we have with banks and hospitals, will have target business.
These tasks are therefore performed to a set long implementation schedules and an increased risk of delays of procedures by a dedicated team that call upon external during these implementation periods with consequential risks to resources as required.
the cash flows and profits that were expected from that contract.
It is also possible that the needs of the client will change during Product development the implementation period for a reason that is outside Misys Likewise, having made a decision to invest in a product there control.
In the extreme, the client may no longer have a need for are many risks in bringing a product development project to the Misys product that they have contracted for.
Such instances a conclusion on schedule and within budget.
This process is are rare and typically resolved through negotiation.
managed by developing a product roadmap, for each product group, that identifies the enhancements that will be made to Furthermore the products and services developed by the software successive versions of the product in the years ahead.
Our applications industry in general, are characterised by lengthy application software products and services are complex and sales cycles that may cause revenues and operating results to be unpredictable and to vary significantly from period to period.
Page 37 Financial review continued Political uncertainty business and could cause delays in product development.
The risk Misys has operations in over 30 countries and customers in over is mitigated through our contractual arrangements and by the 120.
This geographic diversity exposes parts of our business to careful adherence to Group policy on open sourced software.
the risk of political unrest.
We maintain significant research and development operations in Bangalore and Manila.
Political or Government regulation social instability in either of those areas could seriously harm In recent years the UK financial services industry has been our research and development operations.
Our operations do subject to increased regulation from the Financial Services have business continuity plans but a level of disruption could Authority.
This has resulted in many cases of parties successfully nevertheless be expected if political unrest, or indeed any other claiming to have been mis-sold financial products.
The cost to disruptive event such as a natural disaster, should occur.
Sesame of investigating these claims is significant.
Furthermore, if the claims are ultimately found to be justified, there are further Key suppliers costs to Sesame which may or may not be recoverable from the Certain of our products are dependent upon inputs from member firms or from our insurers.
Consequently an increase key suppliers.
We are dependent on the performance, service in the rate of claims being made, an increase in the uphold rates and reliability of operating systems, middleware, databases, of such claims, further regulation by the Financial Services programming language compilers and similar software Authority or further mis-selling reviews under existing regulation infrastructure, all of which we obtain from a large number of third could all consequently result in further costs to Sesame.
Such third party applications may suffer from addition, the Group is subject to the laws and regulations of a defects or errors which could adversely affect the performance of number of countries covering a wide variety of areas affecting our application software products and services.
Moreover, if we are international transactions, including export controls, antiunable to adapt our application software products and services to corruption legislation and data protection requirements.
function with new releases of such third party applications, or if such third party applications were to be withdrawn or discontinued, Attack by IT viruses we may incur significant costs in eliminating these third party As an IT business this will always be a threat that requires sound components from our products and our ability to deliver new IT infrastructure and virus protection software.
Furthermore systems and maintain existing customers could be adversely Sesame and Healthcare both obtain substantial revenues from affected.
Suppliers are consequently chosen that have stable online trading activity.
A disruption to service would, in time, strategies that match our own and produce a mutually beneficial result in customers reverting to traditional means of conducting relationship that is carefully managed by both parties.
business and so circumventing the Misys service.
Finally if third parties misappropriate our users information, we may be liable Infringement of intellectual property rights for substantial damages, our reputation may be damaged and Over many years we have made significant investments in our users may be deterred from using our application software products which have resulted in Misys owning substantial products and services.
We generally protect our proprietary application software products and services by licensing rights to Financial risks use the application, rather than selling or licensing the computer source code.
We also protect our proprietary software and Tax risks services by copyright law.
Possible infringement of our intellectual The geographic diversity of Misys was described above under property rights could cause us to lose revenue, adversely affect Political Uncertainty.
We may be subject to tax audit in many of our ability to operate our business and could damage our the countries in which we operate, in accordance with the local trademarks.
Furthermore there is always the risk that we have practice.
This introduces an exposure to new tax risks, such as inadvertently infringed the intellectual property rights of a third a challenge to our transfer pricing policies, and it raises the party.
If any such claim against us were successful we would possibility of the same profits being taxed in more than one probably face one of three choices.
Firstly we may need to recountry.
Furthermore tax legislation is complex and often results design our product, which would demand further investment in in lengthy negotiations before certainty of the tax treatment to a that product.
Secondly we could take a licence on the infringing complex transaction is achieved.
intellectual property that is contained within our product and this may not always be possible on acceptable commercial terms.
Legislative risks Thirdly we could cease to sell that product and accept the decline Some of the countries in which we have operations control the in revenues.
An intellectual property claim that is made against repatriation of earnings and capital.
These controls may vary at us, whether or not it has merit, would also be a drain on short notice and consequently give us a risk of delaying or even management attention and so prove to be disruptive to our preventing cash flows back to the parent.
Page 38 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Fluctuations in exchange rates The core debt financing of the Group is provided by a revolving The same geographic diversity leaves us exposed to fluctuations facility of $850m 454m at 31 May 2006 exchange rates.
This in exchange rates with the highest exposure being against the comprises a tranche of $585m, which matures in March 2010, US dollar and euro.
Where possible we routinely hedge currency and a second tranche of $265m, which matures no later than exposures on trading transactions that would otherwise give us a March 2008.
During the year the maturity of the second tranche risk from movements in the exchange rate: for example between was extended from a final maturity which had been March 2007. entering into a sales contract and receiving payment.
However These facilities allow the Group to borrow funds in any major the translation risk which arises when consolidating the financial currency at the related floating rates of interest.
results of the overseas entities is not hedged.
We also run the economic risk that results for example from the cost base of the The Group has substantial investments in the US and development centres being unrelated to the currencies of the consequently the debt drawn under the revolving facility is markets in which the end products are eventually sold.
However the floating rate nature of the debt gives the Group an exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Retirement benefits In managing this we have sought a balance between the certainty We operate a number of ongoing and legacy pension schemes of interest charge and the flexibility to permit our borrowing in the countries in which we operate.
While we do not foresee levels to change dramatically, such as following a substantial a material problem from a deficit on a defined contribution corporate transaction.
Consequently the Group has protected scheme, in many countries pensions are highly regulated and we the interest charge on $100m of the bank debt from increases in therefore remain at risk from falling outside of local regulations.
interest rates via an interest rate cap that matures in June 2007.
This gives the Group a mixture of floating rate and capped debt.
The Group has operations in over 30 countries and trades in over 120.
Subsidiaries may trade in currencies other than the Treasury controls and operations functional currency of their operation and in such cases the currency is usually sterling or US dollars.
It is the Groups The Group has in place treasury policies that are reviewed policy to eliminate transactional currency exposures through annually by the Board and more regularly by the Treasury forward foreign currency contracts as soon as the contractual Committee that comprises certain executive Directors and a commitments to receive or pay the foreign currency is known.
The policy covers all significant areas of treasury activity, including foreign exchange, interest rate, The Group is also subject to a currency exposure on the liquidity and credit risk.
The Group has a centralised treasury translation of the net assets of, and profits earned by, its that provides a service to the corporate centre and to the overseas subsidiaries which are primarily those located in the operating businesses.
Its primary function is to manage the US and Europe.
This exposure is not hedged.
foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity and credit risks arising from the operations of the business.
It is not a profit centre and The Group invests its cash and cash equivalents, and enters enters into derivative contracts solely for the purpose of hedging into contracts for derivative financial instruments, with the exposures that arise in the normal course of business.
The institutions of high credit quality, and limits its exposure to any Groups policy is not to enter into speculative transactions.
The Groups revenue is derived from various industries and could be directly affected by the overall conditions The Treasury Committee is responsible for ensuring that the of those industries.
The large number of customers, their Group operates within the treasury policies agreed by the Board.
geographical distribution, and the reasonably short collection Regular reports are made to the Board from the Treasurer and terms mitigates the credit risk associated with this.
The Group from the Treasury Committee.
routinely monitors its exposure to credit losses and maintains an allowance for anticipated losses.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, new equity, loan notes and bank borrowings.
It is policy to ensure that the Group has sufficient financial resources to support the business and, as a result, substantial committed facilities are maintained.
The Group also has a policy to ensure that it maintains a comfortable margin between committed Howard Evans facilities and the likely peak borrowings during a year.
Finance Director, Misys plc Page 39
