About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Review of the market and strategy | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Operating and financial review Tim Clarke, Chief Executive In what has been an active year, Mitchells & Butlers has delivered another strong trading performance with like-for-like sales growth of 4.1%.
Our focus on amenity, value and service, together with tight cost control has enabled us to increase net operating margins and generate operating profit of 309m before exceptional items.
Earnings per share before exceptional items of 29.3p for the year are 15.4% ahead of last year, reflecting the strong trading performance and the reduction in shares in issue following share buybacks in FY2005 and FY2006.
The market The continued success of our sales strategy has been against a mixed background in the market with much more positive growth rates evident in food, wine, soft drinks and cider compared to beer and spirits.
These trends are being driven by changing lifestyles and the actions of competitors and supermarkets.
Pub usage is becoming more popular but less regular Going to the pub remains one of the most popular pastimes in the UK.
The proportion of the adult population now regularly 1 visiting pubs has risen to 72% as wider social usage has been driven by the growth of eating-out in pubs.
However, the traditional pastime of visiting the local pub several times a week purely for a drink continues to decline.
This change in pub usage is a consequence of social and lifestyle changes: the increase in the female working population, the growth in the number of single households and the increasing affluence and better health of a growing retired population.
This review OFR has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Report Business Review requirements of the Companies Eating-out is increasingly the reason for visiting 2 Act 1985.
It also incorporates much of the guidance set out in The eating-out market has been growing at around 4% per annum the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statements on the in real terms over the last 20 years.
Within this, pubs are capturing Operating and Financial Review.
a disproportionate share of the growth as their informality and value for money are appealing for more frequent and less formal The 2005 financial year comprised 53 weeks.
44% of the adult population visit a pub to eat at least 3 between 2006 and 2005 of total sales, like-for-like sales, operating once a month.
Mitchells & Butlers has capitalised on this trend profit and earnings per share have been made on a 52 weeks basis by repositioning its estate towards large pubs with the scale to to ensure comparability: all cash flow results include 53 weeks for serve high volumes of food at very attractive prices.
The average 2005 and 52 weeks for 2006.
All numbers except where stated price of a main meal in a Mitchells & Butlers pub is around 6 are before exceptional items.
and food now accounts for some 35% of the Groups retail sales.
1 TNS Drinks Market Survey & Alcovision June 2006 2 Office for National Statistics 3 Mintel Eating-out review UK, July 2005 4 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | The customer appeal of pub food is expanding The average price across the on-trade continues to increase as smaller Traditionally, eating-out in pubs and particularly pub restaurants operators look to raise prices to cover their growing cost base.
In has been concentrated in suburban areas amongst predominantly contrast, Mitchells & Butlers has continued to follow a strategy of pricing middle income customers.
This segment of the market is continuing restraint relative to the rest of the industry.
For example, the retail price to show good growth, however as the quality, range and choice of standard lager e. g. Carling, our largest selling beer, is around 18p of pub food improves, there is also widening acceptance of pubs lower than other managed operators and 35p below tenanted pubs.
for casual dining in commuter belts and affluent urban areas.
This strategy has enabled us to make further significant market share 6 In response to these trends, Mitchells & Butlers is continually gains in an on-trade beer market where volumes are 4% lower for 7 developing and evolving its operating formats to appeal to customer the year as a whole and over 6% down in the quarter to September.
In the more affluent areas, we are continuing to convert pubs to our Premium Country Dining format which, on average, achieves sales of 27k per week.
Price per pint 240 MAB average price Even more significant is the growth in spend on eating-out in the Market average price 230 more densely populated housing estates where Sizzling Pub Co. and Pub Carvery both offer extremely good value for money 220 with steak and chips or a full carvery meal at 3.99.
As a result, our Pub Carveries are now selling over 2,500 meals each per week on average, 12% ahead of last year.
Similarly in the mid market 210 income brackets, Harvester, Toby and Ember Inns have all continued to perform well.
200 2003 2004 2005 2006 Strong growth in wine and soft drinks Source: AC Neilsen.
12 months to September The growth in food sales is also helping to generate strong growth in drinks, especially wine.
Approximately 60% of Mitchells & Butlers sales are now food or food driven ancillary drinks.
Volumes of wine 4 sold across the industry have increased by 1% during the year 1.10 Volume index whereas Mitchells & Butlers achieved wine volumes 6% higher than Off-trade volumes last year.
We have also gained further market share in soft drinks MAB volumes 1.05 with volume growth of 5% in a market where overall volumes have 5 On-trade volumes been flat.
12 months to September 40 30 20 5.3% 0.1% 10 Mitchells & Butlers strategy 0 1985 1990 1995 2000 2006 for growth Source: Office for National Statistics.
NB: Eating-out market includes soft drinks 2006 Forecast on the basis of Q1 and Q2 data Mitchells & Butlers has consistently pursued a customer driven pub retailing strategy and the results this year are a further testament to Continued decline in on-trade beer exacerbated its success.
Specifically, we aim to: by supermarket promotions In contrast to the strong growth in food sales, the on-trade beer market 1.
Lead the value for money casual dining market continues to decline.
This structural decline is being exacerbated Same outlet like-for-like food sales increased by 7.3% during the by the widening price gap between the on-trade and supermarkets year through our emphasis on amenity, service and value.
This was particularly evident during the World Cup this we successfully acquired 239 pub restaurant sites from Whitbread PLC summer when supermarkets again used beer promotions as a driver the Acquired Sites which we plan to convert to our brands and of sales of related products such as barbeques.
During this period, formats over the next 18 months.
This acquisition has accelerated the gap between the average price of a pint of premium lager the repositioning of the Mitchells & Butlers pub estate towards food.
e. g. Stella Artois on promotion in the supermarket and the average Including these pubs, we now serve 96 million meals a year which price in a pub reached over 1.50. makes us the largest on-trade caterer in the UK.
4 6 AC Neilsen British Beer & Pub Association 5 7 AC Neilsen British Beer & Pub Association Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 5 | About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Review of the market and strategy | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary 2.
Generate significant drinks market share gains or increase the trading area.
We are generating a pre-tax incremental Same outlet like-for-like drinks sales increased by 3.2% in the year return of over 20% on our expansionary investment in the estate over against the background of a declining beer market.
Our focus remains the last two years.
on extending the range of drinks we offer and improving its quality and presentation through appropriate glassware and investment The Acquired Sites provide us with a pipeline for conversion to our in glycol cooling systems.
We now stock on average six to seven brands and formats over the next 18 months.
We anticipate investing draught lagers in our pubs compared to two to three, four years 85m in these sites to uplift their performance to that of our own pub ago.
Some of our more premium formats now offer over 10.
In total, restaurants, achieving a 30% uplift in average sales per week and across the Company we now stock over 40 different draught products.
an uplift of over 50% in EBITDA.
Widen the inclusive appeal of the pub through high levels We will continue to look for and evaluate opportunities to acquire of amenity and service individual pubs, or packages of pubs, where we believe we can We are constantly developing and evolving our operating formats add value through the application of our operating formats and the to ensure they remain relevant to customers, particularly those benefits of our corporate purchasing scale.
segments of the market where pub usage is growing strongly: young professionals, females, families and the over 50s.
During the year we In circumstances where the value of an individual pub, or group invested 182m of capital expenditure maintaining and upgrading of pubs, is higher to a third party than its trading value, we will our pubs.
As we continue with this strategy, the amenity gap between crystallise that value through disposal.
We achieved 88m of disposal our pubs and the majority of the pubs in the UK is widening proceeds in the year, taking advantage of the buoyancy in the significantly as investment in the industry is at its lowest point property market, particularly for smaller freehold pubs.
In October, for over a decade.
we also disposed of a package of 102 smaller community pubs to Trust Inns Ltd for 101m as we continue to reposition the estate 4.
Deliver a profitable, integrated food and drinks offer towards large pubs with the capacity to serve high food volumes.
Whilst food is increasingly the reason that customers visit a Mitchells In taking advantage of opportunities for acquisitions and disposals & Butlers pub, we are able to combine food sales with higher margin in this way, we are able to recycle capital into assets with significantly drinks sales to maximise overall profitability and generate high net higher growth prospects.
operating margins of 18% of sales.
All of our format development ensures that an appealing and vibrant bar remains at the heart of 8.
Grow profits and capture appreciation to benefit shareholders the pub so that we cater for both eating and drinking social occasions.
Pubs are generally valued by reference to the cash flows that they generate.
As a result, the success of our strategy to grow sales and 5.
Extract volume driven efficiencies profits also enhances the value of our property, of which almost 90% Our strategy of offering quality, range and value is delivering strong is now freehold or long leasehold.
During the year, we instructed volume growth.
Extracting maximum benefit from growing volumes Colliers CRE to conduct a formal portfolio valuation of the ongoing across the business has been critical to our success in offsetting the securitised pub estate 1,704 sites, for the purposes of a refinancing.
additional 24m of regulatory and energy costs that we have incurred They valued that estate at 4.8bn, equivalent to 2.8m per pub, this year.
At the corporate level, increased sales volumes improve our which is some 40% higher than at the time of the last valuation in purchasing power.
We have been able to maintain our gross margins 2003.
In total, we estimated that the Groups property was worth in again this year, offsetting the negative mix impact of the faster growth excess of 5.5bn at the end of August.
In view of Mitchells & Butlers of food and wine.
Economies of scale also arise at the pub level accounting policies under IFRS, the results of these valuations have where the size of our individual businesses means that we employ not been recognised in the financial statements of the Group.
on average over 20 people per pub allowing us to service additional volumes with low incremental labour cost.
Our principal measure Through additional borrowing against the higher asset values, we are of productivity, contribution per staff hour sales less wages divided able to release surplus cash to invest in the business or to return by hours worked, increased by a further 4% this year.
During the year, in addition to organic investment, we purchased the Acquired Sites and we have returned some 6.
Extend the skill base of operational excellence throughout 560m to shareholders including the Special Dividend of 1 per the estate share in October 2006, shortly after the year end.
Generating and The skills and experience of our operating teams, from bar and capturing the appreciation in property values for the benefit of waiting staff to Licensed House Manager and Operations Director, shareholders remains an integral part of Mitchells & Butlers strategy.
provide a critical competitive advantage for us.
It is through this experience that we have been able to establish industry-leading practices in areas such as staff scheduling.
These have enabled us to realise significant productivity savings and maintain our pub employment cost ratio at 24% of sales, despite substantial real increases in the National Minimum Wage.
Proactively manage the estate to maximise value Mitchells & Butlers strategy is to maximise the value of each individual pub that we own by applying the trading format that is most appropriate to the local market.
During the year, we completed 65 conversions and 69 growth projects to change the customer offer 6 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 |
