About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Karim Naffah, Finance Director Mitchells & Butlers has continued to perform well this year, with Efficient financing structure strong revenue growth and improving margins.
Earnings per share Based on an independent valuation of the ongoing securitised grew by 15.4% in the year, underpinning the proposed increase estate 1,704 pubs, Mitchells & Butlers total property assets were of 14% in the annual dividend.
estimated in August to be worth over 5.5bn.
The substantial appreciation of our asset base over the past three years demonstrates Strong operating performance the value that has been added to our high quality estate through the Our financial performance reflects the quality of the licensed properties successful implementation of our operational strategy.
we have developed and our operational focus on maximising the trading potential of each pub, through the application and evolution We identified a year ago that, as a result of its strong trading of industry-leading brands and formats.
performance since 2003 and the expected consequent increase in asset values, the business had created the capacity to take on more Like-for-like sales during the year grew by 4.1% and gross margins debt.
We stated our intention to refinance the balance sheet during were broadly maintained, despite the relatively faster growth of food the year, either to fund a major acquisition or to return additional and wine.
With continued productivity improvements and efficiency cash to shareholders.
It is pleasing that the Company has, in practice, gains, net margins rose from 17.7% to 18% this year, surmounting been able to accommodate both.
an unprecedented challenge of 24m from additional regulatory and energy costs, equivalent to some 1.4% points of margin.
New bonds totalling 1.1bn were issued in September on highly attractive terms, with an average cash interest rate fixed through Investing for high returns hedging arrangements, at 5.4% pre-tax.
Of this total, 450m was We invested 182m in the existing estate, including 73m of used to refinance existing notes and the incremental debt of 655m expansionary capital on development projects, with incremental has enabled the Company to pay the Special Dividend of 1 per pre-tax returns over the last two years of over 20%.
share in October to shareholders, in addition to having financed the purchase of the Acquired Sites and repurchased 76m of shares We also purchased, for 497m, 239 pub restaurants in July.
We also made an additional contribution of 20m extensive due diligence and rigorous site appraisals prior to acquisition to the pension schemes in the year and have committed a further underpinned our confidence in the significant opportunity to increase 60m to be paid over the next two years.
the sales and profits of these sites by converting them to Mitchells & Butlers brands and operating formats.
We anticipate further investment Going forward, our focus remains on driving profitable sales growth of around 85m to complete the conversions over the next 18 months, in our base estate and through the important conversion of the generating high incremental returns and providing the business with Acquired Sites, generating strong cash flow and future asset an additional source of profitable growth and value creation.
appreciation for the benefit of shareholders.
Value creative disposals In addition to investing in the future of the business, we regularly Karim Naffah, Finance Director challenge the ongoing trading value of our assets against the option of disposal, particularly as alternative use and investment demand for individual pubs have been at substantially higher values than before.
During the year, we raised 88m of cash from disposals, including 53m from 21 smaller freehold properties in London sold at a multiple of 22 times the EBITDA they generated in the prior 12 months.
Shortly after the year end, we completed the disposal of 102 smaller, community pubs to Trust Inns Ltd, a private company, for 101m.
12 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | Financial review Pubs & Bars Total revenue for the year was 1,720m up 5.5% on last year.
FY2006 Strong like-for-like sales growth continued in our business in both Revenue 958m 2.0% Residential and High Street areas, reflecting further significant market share gains.
Operating profit 179m 2.3% Same outlet like-for-like sales 3.5% Like-for-like sales Uninvested like-for-like sales 2.4% Same outlet Uninvested Before exceptional items Residential 5.1% 3.1% High Street 2.3% 1.8% Revenue in the Pubs & Bars division was up 2.0%.
At the end of the Total 4.1% 2.6% period there were 1,193 managed pubs in the division following the disposal of 55 pubs, 12 transfers to business franchise and seven pubs transferred to the Restaurants division.
There were on average With the success of our ongoing sales and marketing activities, same 1,238 pubs trading during the year.
outlet food and drink sales were up 7.3% and 3.2% respectively with average retail prices up 2%, as a consequence of price increases on Good growth in the divisions drinks sales, as a result of the widening some standard products, the introduction of more premium products gap between our amenity, product range and value for money and expansion of some of our more upmarket pub offers such as and that of the competition, has led to market share gains, with a Premium Country Dining.
particularly strong performance from those businesses in residential areas.
This increase is against a background of ongoing decline in The overall cost of goods was held flat on last year reflecting the the on-trade beer market.
purchasing benefit of our volume strategy.
Reductions on the average price of contracts renegotiated this year offset other contractual Food sales were up 4.5%, driven by growth in our residential pubs, increases, duty and inflation.
Overall gross margins were in line notably Sizzling Pub Co. and Metropolitan Professionals, as well as with last year despite the further shift in sales mix to lower margin by our Town Pubs and the central London estate.
categories of food and wine.
Machines sales continued to decline reflecting the delay in the review Good profit conversion of incremental sales enabled us to offset of stakes and prizes which was concluded shortly before the year end, 24m of additional regulatory and energy costs.
In particular further raising the maximum stake to 50p and the maximum prize to 35 with employee productivity benefits were achieved allowing us to maintain effect from 27 October 2006. our pub employment cost ratio at 24% of sales despite the increase in the National Minimum Wage.
Conditions for the 6% of our business in the later-night bars and venues segment remain challenging due to the additional competition As a result the net retail operating margin was 0.3% points ahead from longer opening hours following licensing deregulation.
A total of 52 conversions were completed, predominantly to residential Excluding the 239 Acquired Sites, we invested 182m in the year.
brands and formats such as Sizzling Pub Co. Ember Inns and the 109m was invested to maintain the high levels of amenity in the Metropolitan Professionals format.
pubs and in the continuing development and evolution of our brands and formats.
The balance of 73m was spent on expansionary As a result of tight cost control, particularly on labour, Pubs & Bars projects.
During the year six new pubs opened, two with adjoining profits were up 2.3% in the year.
Despite continuing pressure on lodges and 65 existing pubs were converted to one of our brands employment and energy costs, net margin was broadly maintained or formats to uplift their sales and profits.
Lodges were developed on land adjacent to existing pubs.
Overall, we are achieving an incremental, pre-tax return of over 20% on the expansionary projects of the last two years.
Including the Acquired Sites and disposal proceeds of 88m, net capital investment during the year was 583m.
As a result of our progress, operating profit before exceptional items was 309m, up 6.9% on last year.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 13 | About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Financial review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Restaurants for use by the European Union EU.
These are the Groups first FY2006 Preliminary Financial Statements to be prepared on this basis.
Details of the accounting policies adopted are set out in note 1 to Revenue 762m 11.4% the financial statements and an explanation of the transition to IFRS Operating profit 130m 15.0% is included in note 34.
A reconciliation of UK GAAP to IFRS for the 28 weeks ended 9 April 2005 and 53 weeks ended 1 October 2005 Same outlet like-for-like sales 5.0% were made publicly available on 7 December 2005 and can be Uninvested like-for-like sales 2.9% accessed within the investors section of the Groups website at www.
com IFRS Before exceptional items Excluding Acquired Sites All comparatives have been restated to reflect IFRS Exceptional items Total sales in the Restaurants division were up 11.4%.
At the end of the period there were 832 managed pubs in the division following Exceptional items are those which are separately identified by virtue the addition of the Acquired Sites, six new individual pubs, the of their size or incidence so as to allow a better understanding of disposal of six pubs, one transfer to business franchise and seven the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Exceptional items pubs transferred from Pubs & Bars.
Excluding the Acquired Sites, are generally those which do not form part of the core operations there were on average 585 pubs trading during the year and total of the Group.
As a result, the Board focuses on pre-exceptional revenue grew by 6.4%, with drinks sales up 3.9% and food up performance measures in order to compare underlying performance 8.9%.
Same outlet like-for-like sales grew by 5.0%.
The division produced strong results during the year, driven Exceptional profits of 23m 20m after tax arose during the by the ongoing evolution of our brands and formats, new menu year in connection with the sale of individual pubs.
Costs of 7m development, extended and improved drinks ranges and better 6m after tax were incurred in defending the potential offer for the drinks presentation and quality.
By increasing the variety of dishes Group from a consortium led by R20 and in the refinancing of some and extending the range of tastes being catered for, we have been of the Groups securitised bonds.
In addition, an exceptional interest improving choice and attracting a wider customer base.
Our pub cost of 4m 3m after tax was recognised reflecting the write off restaurants now serve close to 2,000 meals each on average per of the original issue costs on the refinanced bonds.
An exceptional week, turning their covers 16 times.
As anticipated, sales in the tax credit of 40m arose during the year following the settlement of division were adversely affected during the World Cup in June.
pre demerger tax issues with the HMR&C.
Of this amount, 32m Afterwards, however, trading rebounded strongly with like-for-like has been released from prior year provisions and 8m is expected sales in the last 12 weeks of the year up 6.4%.
to be recovered in cash in FY2007.
Revenue for the Acquired Sites for the nine weeks of ownership Finance costs and revenue included in the period was 34m, and operating profit was 6m.
Finance costs were 118m before exceptional items during the year, 4m higher than last year as a result of additional borrowing for part The Restaurants divisions focus on high levels of volume growth of the year following the acquisition of the Acquired Sites, partially and maximising the drop-through to profit of incremental sales offset by bond repayments during the year.
resulted in operating profit before exceptional items of 130m, up 15% on last year, including the contribution from the Acquired Sites.
Finance revenue of 9m was achieved on the Groups cash balances, Operating margin was up 0.6 percentage points to 17.1%.
This was 2m lower than last year reflecting the lower average cash balances achieved through efficiency gains and substantial improvements following the share buybacks this year and last year.
in employee productivity driven by a continual focus on the training, optimal deployment and service quality delivered by our staff, so as Net finance income from pensions was 8m, 5m higher than last to both grow sales volumes and maximise the profitability of the year due to the expected return on the increased level of assets in incremental volume sold.
the scheme compared to the charge for the liabilities.
Standard Commercial Property Developments Limited SCPD The Groups blended net interest rate for the year was a little under SCPD aims to maximise the value of the Groups surplus properties 6% including the impact of the net finance income from pensions.
which are suitable for development.
Due to the nature of this activity and the small number of developments ongoing at any one time, Taxation revenue and profit can fluctuate from period to period.
SCPD did not The tax charge for the year was 64m before exceptional items.
contribute any revenue or profit to the Group results, compared to This is an effective rate of 31% of profit before tax, consistent with 8m and 1m respectively last year.
Accounting policies Earnings per share With effect from 2 October 2005, Mitchells & Butlers plc has been Earnings per share were 29.3p before exceptional items, 15.4% required to prepare its group financial statements in accordance ahead of last year.
In addition to the growth in operating profit, 14 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | earnings per share have benefited from the share buyback The Group has a committed medium term facility of 300m and a programme during the current and previous financial years.
further liquidity facility of 295m available.
Dividends and returns to shareholders Pensions The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2006 of 8.6p On an IAS 19 basis, the Groups pensions schemes showed a per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.65p paid on deficit of 99m, 67m after tax at 30 September 2006 compared 30 June 2006, this gives a total dividend for the year of 12.25p, with 151m 101m after tax at 1 October 2005.
The reduction up 14% on last year.
This increase reflects our commitment to a in the deficit reflects the benefit of 20m of additional pension progressive policy for dividend growth consistent with the medium contributions paid in the year and improved investment returns, term growth prospects for the Company.
Subject to approval at partially offset by an assumption of higher future inflation.
the AGM, on 1 February 2007, the final dividend will be paid on 5 February 2007 to shareholders on the register on 8 December 2006.
Following the completion of the refinancing and return of funds, the Company has agreed with the Pensions Trustees that further During the year, the Company repurchased 18m shares for a total contributions of 30m in FY2007 and 20m in FY2008 will be consideration of 76m.
Of these shares, 13.5m were cancelled and made, in addition to the 10m already committed for FY2007.
the balance was placed in employee share trusts.
A full actuarial valuation of the pension schemes is planned to take place with the normal triennial cycle in 2007.
Cash flow and net debt Shareholders funds The Groups operations are highly cash generative.
Cash flow from operations was 430m before exceptional items but after additional Shareholders funds were 1,285m at the end of the year compared pension contributions of 20m.
Net capital expenditure was 583m with 1,183m at the start of the year.
A full reconciliation of the comprising 489m of the acquisition cost of the Acquired Sites, movement in equity is set out in note 25 to the financial statements.
73m of expansionary capital investment, 109m of maintenance capital, less disposal proceeds of 88m.
Net interest paid of 107m was slightly ahead of last year reflecting increased debt in the business for part of the year following the acquisition of the Acquired Sites.
Tax paid was 48m, broadly in line with last year.
56m was paid in respect of the final dividend for FY2005 and the interim dividend for FY2006.
In addition, shares totalling 76m were repurchased and 12m was received from the exercise of share options.
As a result there was a net cash outflow of 428m before exceptional items 14m in total, compared to a cash inflow of 14m last year.
Net debt at the year end was 2,067m.
This was before the payment of a special dividend to shareholders of 1 per share 486m in total, the disposal of a package of 102 pubs for 101m and the payment of the additional pension contribution of 40m for FY2007, all of which occurred shortly after the year end.
Share price and market capitalisation At 30 September 2006 the share price was 589.5p compared with 365p at the start of the financial year, an increase of 62%.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 index with a market capitalisation of approximately 2.9bn at the year end.
Treasury management The financial risks faced by the Group are identified and managed by a central Treasury department.
The activities of the Treasury function are carried out in accordance with Board approved policies and are subject to regular audit.
The department does not operate as a profit centre.
At 30 September 2006, the Groups net debt of 2,067m consisted of the securitised debt of 2,413m and a small amount of derivatives hedging balance sheet debt, other loan notes and finance lease obligations together totalling 29m, offset by cash and investments of 375m.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 15 |
