04 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas About National Grid Gas Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends Business Segment Description of principal activities and factors underlying the development, performance and Transmission UK gas Owner and operator of the gas transmission transmission network in Great Britain position of National Grid Gas during the year ended 31 March and storage facilities for liquefied 2006 as well as those likely to affect our future development, natural gas LNG.
It has been prepared in line with the UK Distribution UK gas The distribution of gas within guidance provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating distribution England as the owner and operator and Financial Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards of four of the UKs eight gas Board in January 2006. distribution networks.
Other UK gas The provision of regulated gas Businesses metering metering and meter reading services and corporate in Great Britain.
About National Grid Gas activities Other activities Corporate activities.
Principal operations We are a part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Our principal operations are in regulated gas networks and comprise Disposals the transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas Sales of four regional gas distribution networks metering services within Great Britain.
In June 2005, we sold four of our regional gas distribution networks, comprising approximately half of the gas distribution History network in Great Britain, for net cash proceeds of 5.8 billion.
National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas The effect of these sales has been to reduce by about one-half industry in 1986.
In 2005, following the sales of four UK regional the size of our UK gas distribution segment, which now gas distribution networks, we adopted National Grid as a single comprises four retained networks.
name for all our principal businesses.
The sales have resulted in a significant restructuring of the gas Key milestones distribution market in the UK, so that four different owners are 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company now responsible for their respective regional networks.
1997 British Gas demerged Centrica 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent company, BG Group, separation External market environment of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses The principal market in which we operate is the gas energy of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence market in the UK.
around Transco 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group Gas energy market in the UK 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National The supply of gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can Grid Transco contract with different suppliers to obtain the energy they need.
2005 Sales of four UK regional gas distribution networks Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing that energy 2005 National Grid Transco renamed National Grid and National from gas producers or importers as appropriate, as well as Grid adopted as the group brand name arranging for that energy to be delivered through physical delivery 2005 Transco renamed National Grid Gas networks.
These networks, including the ones we operate, are monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no methods of receiving energy other than through those networks.
Businesses and segments The performances of our businesses are reported by segment, Energy is transported through the gas transmission network to reflecting the management responsibilities and economic regional gas distribution networks that then deliver that energy characteristics of each activity.
Our principal businesses and to consumers.
We are the owner and operator of the gas segments are as follows: transmission network and of four of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain, and transport gas through our networks on behalf of gas shippers.
Contractual arrangements between the shippers and ourselves are set out in the Uniform Network Code.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 05 National Grid Gas About National Grid Gas Energy market developments Business drivers The UK is entering a period of changing supply patterns for both Our principal activities include the operation of highly complex gas and electricity, as more reliance is placed on imported gas.
As a consequence, there are many factors that The decline in UK continental shelf gas reserves and the UK influence the financial returns we obtain.
We consider the Governments emphasis on combating climate change mean that following to be our main business drivers: we continue to see a trend toward greater use of imported gas Price controls The prices we charge for use of our gas transmission for both consumption and use in power generation.
and distribution networks are determined in accordance with regulator-approved price controls These changes will have an impact on our gas transmission and in the UK.
The negotiation of these arrangements distribution networks.
In particular, significant investment is likely has a significant impact on the revenues we obtain to be required in our gas transmission and distribution networks from our operations.
to link new power plants and gas import facilities with domestic, In addition, these arrangements include incentives that permit us to earn additional revenues based on business and industrial consumers.
our performance or penalise us if we do not meet various targets.
Regulatory environment The length of these arrangements is significant to us in that they provide stability to our operations and As a result of our position in, and importance to, the UK allow us to plan ahead and invest with confidence economy, our gas transmission and distribution businesses are that we will obtain financial returns.
In the UK, our subject to UK and European Union laws and regulations.
price controls typically cover periods of five years.
Safety and Our ability to operate safely and reliably is very In the UK, our businesses are regulated under the Gas Act 1986 reliability important to us, our employees, our customers, the by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Ofgem public and our regulators.
Our financial performance operates under the direction and governance of the Gas and is affected by our performance in these areas.
Electricity Markets Authority, and has established price control Efficiency Our objective, and that of our regulators, is for us mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can be to deliver services as efficiently as possible.
This earned by regulated businesses, typically covering five-year price allows us to limit price increases or to reduce prices control periods.
to our customers and improve our own financial performance to the benefit of shareholders.
Our businesses are covered by safety legislation which is Capital Capital investment is a significant driver for enforced by the Health and Safety Executive HSE in the UK.
UK gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby In our regulated energy networks, the prices we our organisation, processes and procedures are documented in charge include an allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance with our price safety cases that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
These provide incentives for us to enhance National Grid Gas has securities which are listed on the London the quality and reach of our networks through capital improvements.
Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange.
Acquisitions We consider disposals where we believe that the Accordingly, we are regulated by the Financial Services Authority and disposals price on offer is better than the long-term return we in the UK and by the Securities and Exchange Commission in can obtain ourselves or where a business does not the US.
fit with our long-term strategy.
More information on the regulatory environment in which we operate Responsibility Our reputation is important to us.
Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and is provided in the segmental discussions on pages 15 to 20. confidence of our stakeholders and this can Regulatory developments only be earned by conducting our business in a responsible manner.
Regulatory developments in the UK during the year included: on 1 May 2005, our UK gas transmission business and UK A number of other factors also affect our financial performance, gas distribution business and each of the networks that we but are less significant than the principal business drivers above, subsequently sold were each granted a gas transporter or are mitigated by the way our operations are structured: licence, replacing the single integrated transmission and distribution licence that we held previously.
A new Uniform Volumes Changes in the quantities of gas delivered through our transmission and distribution networks may result Network Code was introduced by Ofgem, establishing the in an increase or decrease in our revenues.
Volumes mechanisms for the operation of the UK gas delivery market are affected by weather, consumer demand and participants: and network availability as well as other factors.
The Ofgem intends to extend the current gas distribution price impact of changing volumes may sometimes be control review originally scheduled to end on 31 March 2007 offset by changes in costs or may sometimes result in an underor over-recovery against our allowable to 31 March 2008.
The next five year price control review revenue, with a corresponding increase or decrease period will commence on 1 April 2008. in revenue in future periods.
06 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas About National Grid Gas Commodity We are affected by movements in commodity prices Safety Safety is paramount.
Our most important goals are and passto the extent that they affect our own energy to ensure that members of the public are not injured through costs requirements, the most significant of which relates as a direct result of our operations and to deliver to gas purchases required for the operation of our a working environment where there are zero workgas transmission and gas distribution networks.
related injuries or illnesses wherever we operate in the world.
Our goals also include reducing the risks We are allowed to recover certain costs through of transporting gas and improving the health of our charges to customers.
The timing of recovery of staff so they are fit for work every day.
these costs can vary between financial periods leading to an under or over-recovery within any Reliability Our principal operations are critical to the functioning particular financial period.
of the economies we serve.
The reliability of our gas networks, and the quality of our service to our Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, our operating customers, are therefore our next highest priorities costs increase each year as a result of wage after safety.
increases and inflation in external costs.
In general, our revenues also increase each year, although not Efficiency By improving efficiency we can constrain the cost necessarily at the same rate, depending on our of our operations borne by customers and improve regulatory or contractual arrangements.
We continually seek consequence, our ability to control costs and improvements in efficiency throughout our businesses.
improve efficiency is important to our ability to This includes enhancing the performance of our staff increase operating profits.
through their development and training.
Our price controls in the UK are linked to retail Responsibility We are committed to operating in a responsible way price inflation.
and we have adopted high ethical and governance standards, we take actions to minimise the Seasonality Revenues from our gas transmission and distribution environmental impact of our operations and to networks are weighted towards the end of the remediate contaminated land, promote inclusion financial year, as gas demand is typically higher and diversity in our workforce, and invest in the during the winter months.
Otherwise, seasonality communities in which we operate.
does not have a significant impact on revenues.
With the exception of commodity costs, our To achieve our objectives, our strategy is to focus on the operating costs are generally not seasonal.
ownership and operation of large complex networks by: Interest rates The costs of financing our operations are affected by using our operational expertise to outperform benchmarks changes in prevailing interest rates, as some of our debt is at floating rates.
We hedge some of our and regulatory targets: exposure to interest rates with fixed rate debt and managing regulatory relationships to benefit customers derivative financial instruments to maintain a and shareholders: and proportion of our debt at fixed interest rates.
using a disciplined approach to investment to maximise returns.
We use our skills and assets to create value for shareholders Objectives and strategy through investing for growth in our existing businesses, investing Our principal objective is to create value for National Grids in energy and selected other network assets and businesses and shareholders, by helping National Grid achieve its goal of being improving the efficiency of our existing and acquired businesses.
the worlds premier network utility.
To achieve our principal objective we have committed ourselves Key performance indicators to operating our businesses to the highest standards of safety, We measure the achievement of our objectives through the reliability and efficiency and to acting in a responsible way that use of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring of contributes to society.
We have established operating objectives quantitative indicators, termed key performance indicators KPIs.
in the following areas: In line with our operating objectives, we use both financial and non-financial KPIs.
KPIs are used as our primary measures of whether we have achieved our principal operating objectives.
The scale and size of our operations means that we use many other detailed performance measures in addition to the KPIs listed below.
We use qualitative assessments to judge progress against our objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 07 National Grid Gas About National Grid Gas Value Objective Key performance indicator Developing our people Safety Zero workEmployee lost time injury We continue to invest in the development of our people.
related injuries frequency rate People development forums provide the opportunity for Reduce risks Standards of service for responding management teams to discuss the performance and potential from transporting to gas escapes of their teams.
This allows for the identification of individual gas Length of UK gas distribution development needs and business skill requirements.
mains replaced Zero work-related Sickness absence rate A new career development programme was launched in ill health April 2005 for operations engineers to develop their skills as Reliability Operational Business-specific reliability and service line managers.
In addition, our flagship leadership development reliability quality measures programme is to be extended to middle management in 2006.
Efficiency Operate Adjusted operating profit Further development is under way through an emerging leaders efficiently Achieve real reduction of 35% in UK programme.
gas distribution controllable costs by 31 March 2007 Our recruitment processes for apprentices, graduates and Responsibility Reduce Number of significant direct university placements in the UK, continues to build on the environmental environmental incidents previous successes of developing our talent from within and impact Greenhouse gas emissions per m addressing the decline in the number of graduates in technical of revenue engineering subjects.
Total amount of fines from environmental prosecutions Employee engagement Employ an Percentage of female employees Following National Grids first group-wide employee opinion inclusive and Percentage of ethnic minority survey in 2004, we identified a number of areas for improvement.
diverse workemployees These included improving opportunities for dialogue across the force National Grid group, developing a better understanding of Shareholder Improve Operating cash flows National Grid group strategy among employees, managing value financial performance change better, improving performance management, Invest for Capital expenditure demonstrating our values in all that we do and continuing future growth to progress inclusion and diversity.
Adjusted operating profit is equal to operating profit excluding exceptional items We have established a core set of three behavioural values that and remeasurements.
apply across all our operations: Respect, Integrity and Ownership.
Details of KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2006 are included We have also refined our employee briefing processes and on page 10, whilst segment-specific KPIs are reflected in the publications.
We have re-launched National Grids intranet sites business segment sections on pages 15 to 20. and National Grids UK employee newspaper.
We have also introduced a National Grid group-wide publication, National Grid Resources World, to provide employees with a broader view of National Grid Our key strengths and resources include: group activities.
the skills and expertise of our people: Inclusion and diversity our processes and techniques for managing large In January 2005, we launched our Inclusion and Diversity complex networks: programme, setting out how we intend to develop and operate our relationships with customers, regulators and other our business in a way that results in a more inclusive and diverse stakeholders: culture.
We aim to ensure that our employees, regardless of race, our ability to work together to achieve our objectives: gender, nationality, age, disability, sexual orientation, religion or the control and or ownership of the assets used in our background, have the opportunity to develop to their full potential.
networks: and our financial position, together with the committed and We have taken a number of steps to make this vision a reality.
uncommitted borrowing facilities available to us.
We have established a number of employee groups, including networks for women and minority employees.
We hope these Our strategy for developing our people is discussed below.
will help us to identify and remove any barriers that exist for The principal assets of each of our businesses are described these groups of employees.
In particular, we are committed to in more detail in the segmental sections of this Operating and increasing the number of women in senior management across Financial Review on pages 15 to 20 and our financial position the National Grid group from the existing 18.3% through a variety is described on pages 21 to 24. of measures including mentoring, development programmes and our continued commitment to flexible working.
08 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas About National Grid Gas Employee development is extremely important to us and we Ethics have begun a programme of training for all our managers about We have set out the ethical standards we expect each employee the knowledge and behaviour required to manage a diverse to meet while conducting business for the Group in our Code of workforce such that all our employees feel included and able Business Conduct applicable to all our UK employees.
Allegations of misconduct are investigated and reported to National Grids Business Conduct Committee.
We aim to ensure Safety that reported breaches are thoroughly and promptly investigated Our approach to safety and occupational health is set out in and, where appropriate, acted upon and any necessary National Grids Group Vision for Safety.
This is underpinned by improvements implemented.
The National Grid Board Risk & Group-wide policies and strategy statements that are available on Responsibility Committee receives a twice yearly report on the National Grids website.
number and type of inquiries and allegations.
Our objective is to achieve zero work-related injuries, zero workEnvironmental management related ill health and zero injuries to the public.
While this We are committed to a year-by-year improvement in our objective is demanding, we believe it is achievable.
Our Group-wide environmental policy sets out the key areas we are addressing, and we continue to Overall, our aim is to develop a culture in which acting safely implement environmental management systems certified to the becomes second nature.
international standard ISO 14001 to help us deliver improvements in these areas.
Reliability All of our employees work to systems certified to ISO 14001.
Our approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves: investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the Climate change operational tools and techniques necessary to manage our We are committed to making a contribution towards minimising assets and operations to high standards and investing in the climate change and National Grids public position statement, renewal of assets: Energy Delivery and Climate Change, sets out how we propose investing in the skills and capabilities of our people to give to address the issue of greenhouse gas emissions in particular.
them the ability to operate our networks to a high degree Following its publication, National Grid established a group-wide of service excellence: and Climate Change Strategy Group, which has established a longmaintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of our term strategy that maps out how we will achieve a 60% reduction principal objectives, ensuring we are proactive about planning in emissions well in advance of the target date of 2050 set by the to ensure reliability and that we react quickly to factors that UK Government.
Contaminated land We own a portfolio of contaminated land comprising former Efficiency manufactured gas plants and former gas holder stations.
Sites We continually review our operations to identify opportunities to can sometimes have a complex mix of contamination dating back improve the operational productivity of our assets and our people, over 100 years.
The main focus of our remediation programme and to identify areas in which we can reduce costs or restrict is on managing the environmental risk.
Planning ahead is essential in our approach to Community investment maintaining and improving efficiency.
For example, in November The role of National Grid Gas as a good corporate citizen is one 2005 we decided to establish a multi-function shared services that complements and adds value to our strategic ambitions and organisation for our businesses in the UK, comprising supply as such must be delivered through a consistent and integrated chain management and significant parts of human resources approach.
The National Grid groups Community Investment Policy provides a framework for ensuring investment delivers benefits for our Responsibility business and the communities involved.
All community Our Framework for Responsible Business defines the principles investment must develop our business, support our employees, by which we manage our business and our day-to-day dealings support communities and enhance our reputation.
To achieve with our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and local these benefits, we focus our investment on three key themes to communities.
It is underpinned by group-wide policies and ensure that we maximise the impact of our investment: Skills position statements that are also available on National Grids and Education, Environment and Energy, and Community website.
We believe strong corporate governance is essential to Development.
operating responsibly and achieving our goals.
National Grids approach to corporate governance is described in that companys annual report and accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 09 National Grid Gas About National Grid Gas Stakeholder engagement Legal and related matters We have a diverse range of stakeholders including customers, In June 2005, Ofgem announced that certain aspects of the regulators, government and local communities.
We adopt domestic gas metering business were to be investigated by it an open and constructive approach to our dealings with under the Competition Act 1998.
Information requested as part of external audiences.
this investigation was provided to Ofgem in September 2005.
On 17 May 2006, Ofgem issued a statement of objections Capital investment detailing why it believes National Grids conduct is in breach of The Groups total annual capital expenditure is expected to the Competition Act.
We shall be responding to the statement remain at approximately 1.0 billion per year, slightly above that of objections in due course.
achieved in the year ended 31 March 2006, over the medium Other developments term.
This reflects changing energy infrastructure requirements as Other developments during the year that may affect us include the UKs dependency on gas imports increase, and expenditure a European Union Directive concerning measures to safeguard to maintain the safety of the gas distribution networks.
security of natural gas supply which is due for implementation in May 2006.
This will ensure that member states have in place, Risk and uncertainties and publish, policies and standards on gas security of supply.
As well as the opportunities we have to grow and develop our In addition, the Gas Regulation on conditions for access to gas business, we face a number of risks and uncertainties in attaining networks was adopted by the European Union in September our objectives.
There are also a number of European Directives and Regulations in development covering The most significant risk factors we have identified relate to: many issues including harmonisation of access to gas systems changes in laws or regulations: and infrastructure development, where the precise impact on our breaches in environmental or health and safety law businesses in the future is currently uncertain.
We expect the or regulations: impact of these regulations on our businesses to be minimal.
network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: achievement of business performance objectives: reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside our control: business development activities: movements in interest rates: restrictions in borrowings and debt arrangements or changes in credit ratings: pension scheme funding requirements: changes in tax rates: and changes in accounting standards.
National Grid operates a group-wide risk management process which provides for a consistent approach to the assessment, recording and reporting of key risks in a visible, structured and continuous manner.
This process helps to safeguard our assets and is designed to manage, rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our business objectives, while also recognising that any such process can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mistatement or loss.
This process complies with the Turnbull working party guidance revised October 2005.
We also comment on financial risks and risk management in the section on financial position and financial management on pages 21 to 23.
10 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Key performance indicators Key performance indicators Value KPI Description Target Results Safety Employee lost time Injuries resulting in employees Zero 2005 06: 0.20 injury frequency rate taking time off work 2004 05: 0.36 per 100,000 hours worked Gas safety-related Proportion of uncontrolled 97% 2005 06: 97.97% service standards gas escapes attended within 2004 05: 98.46% one hour UK gas distribution Length of gas main 2005 06: 1,724 km 2005 06: In excess of 1,710 km mains replacement decommissioned 2004 05: 1,492 km 2004 05: 1,458 km Set annually in agreement with the HSE Sickness absence Proportion of available work Zero work-related sickness 2005 06: 2.20% rate days which are lost due 2004 05: 2.76% to sickness Reliability Business-specific reliability and service quality measures are discussed in the business segment section on pages 15 to 20.
Efficiency Adjusted operating Operating profit excluding To increase each year 2005 06: 862 million profit exceptional items and 2004 05: 758 million remeasurements UK gas distribution Operating costs over which Reduce controllable costs Achieved by 31 March 2006 controllable costs we have direct control by 35% in real terms of their 2002 level by 31 March 2007 Responsibility Significant own-fault direct Category 1 environmental Zero 2005 06: 1 environmental incidents incidents 2004 05: 7 Greenhouse gas CO equivalent emissions 60% reduction by 2050 2005 06: 1,529 tonnes per m 2 emissions per m estimated to be directly 2004 05: 1,829 tonnes per m of revenue or indirectly caused by our operations Fines from environmental Financial quantity Zero 2005 06: Zero prosecutions of fines imposed 2004 05: Zero Percentage of female Proportion of employees We do not have specific targets 2005 06: 19.4 employees who are female our aim is to ensure that we 2004 05: 15.7 recruit the best candidates regardless of sex, race, disability, Percentage of ethnic Proportion of employees 2005 06: 4.5 sexual orientation, age, religion minority employees who are from ethnic minorities 2004 05: 3.3 or belief Shareholder Operating cash flows Cash generated from To increase each year 2005 06: 1,055 million value continuing operations 2004 05: 1,146 million Capital expenditure Additions to plant and equipment There is no numerical target for 2005 06: 868 million and to intangible assets capital expenditure, as each 2004 05: 575 million investment is different and is considered on its merits Operating profit from continuing operations including exceptional items and remeasurements increased from 649 million in 2004 05 to 835 million in 2005 06.
The sickness absence rate includes absences resulting from both work-related and non-work related illnesses.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 11 National Grid Gas Performance during the year Performance during the year Responsibility This year has again seen external endorsement of National Grids Operating performance responsible business approach.
National Grid continues to feature Safety performance in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and FTSE4Good indices.
Against the significant safety improvements we have seen over National Grid is one of only two multi-utilities listed in the Dow the past three years, it is with great sadness that we record that Jones Sustainability World Index, confirming that our approach to there were four fatalities directly associated with our operations responsible business is indeed world class.
In May 2006, National Grid was placed equal fourth in Business In October 2005, an employee died whilst working on our in the Communitys fourth Corporate Responsibility Index, a London gas distribution network.
There is an investigation into the leading UK benchmark of responsible business, the only incident and we are working closely with the Health and Safety company to be ranked in the top five for three years running.
We have reviewed our procedures and equipment for use while working in gaseous environments and we are currently Environmental management implementing an action plan under the management of one of The number of significant environmental incidents in 2005 06 our Group Directors.
arising directly from our operations was one, compared with seven in the previous year.
Two contractors died in a helicopter crash in Scotland while carrying out an aerial survey of our gas transmission network.
There were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from these incidents.
There has also been one public fatality resulting directly from our operations: an elderly person died after being hit by a vehicle Contaminated land from our UK gas distribution operations.
We are responsible for a number of contaminated sites, which are managed on our behalf by SecondSite Properties, a fellow These were tragic events and our thoughts and deepest subsidiary undertaking of National Grid.
sympathies are with all those affected.
Together with the Environment Agency, we have sought judicial Over the past 12 months we have continued to see an review to clarify the legal position with regard to the remediation encouraging improvement in our safety performance, excluding of a site in Bawtry, Yorkshire, following a decision by the the sold networks, 36 of our employees received injuries that Environment Agency that National Grid Gas plc is an appropriate resulted in them taking time off work during 2005 06 compared party to be involved in the clean up of the land.
The site has a with 64 in 2004 05, a 44% reduction.
long and complex history of ownership.
On 17 May 2006, the The lost time injury frequency rate provides a more accurate High Court ruled in the Environment Agencys favour.
We have indicator of year-on-year performance than an absolute measure appealed this decision, which we believe is incorrect in law.
because it takes into account changing employee numbers Climate change resulting from disposals, such as the sale of the four UK gas The largest sources of our direct emissions continue to be distribution networks in 2005 06.
The number of employee lost methane leakage and venting from our UK gas networks.
During time injuries per 100,000 hours worked in 2005 06 fell to 0.20, 2005 06, our direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gas a 44% improvement when compared with the previous year.
amounted to some 3.7 million tonnes CO equivalent, a 35% 2 There has also been a significant reduction in the number of reduction compared with 2004 05.
This reduction largely results contractor lost time injuries LTIs, falling from 57 in 2004 05 to from the sales of the four UK gas distribution networks during 41 in 2005 06, a 28% decrease.
In our UK Transmission and Distribution operations, we have Our emissions per million of revenue amounted to some reinforced our existing safety procedures by focusing on areas 1,529 tonnes CO equivalent compared with 1,829 tonnes for 2 of our activities where there is most risk of serious injuries.
believe these procedures will help drive continual improvements in key areas.
We have continued to focus on our employees health by promoting physical well-being, and highlighting mental health issues such as stress.
We have also published a stress management standard and implemented a drugs and alcohol policy.
Around 2.2% of available work days were lost due to sickness absence compared with 2.8% for the previous year.
12 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Performance during the year Inclusion and diversity The Directors believe that the use of these adjusted measures At 31 March 2006, of our 6,675 employees 19.4% were females best illustrates the underlying business performance of the Group.
and 4.5% were from ethnic minority groups compared with Excluding exceptional items and mark-to-market remeasurements 15.7% and 3.3% at 31 March 2005. of derivative financial instruments removes their distorting impact in order to provide a clearer comparison from year to year.
Community investment The London Benchmarking Group model has been adopted by Remeasurements arise on financial instruments as these are National Grid to provide a framework for measuring and reporting recorded in the balance sheet at their fair values.
Processes are now in place so that remeasurements relate to the changes in the fair values of community spend across the National Grid group can be derivative financial instruments resulting principally from changes captured and categorised according to the model, and spend in interest rates.
against our agreed themes can be reported as described on Operating financial performance page 8.
Years ended 31 March 2006 2005 During 2005 06, the Company has invested some 421,000 Continuing operations m m in support of community initiatives and relationships.
Revenue 2,244 1,996 Operating costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 1,382 1,238 Business segment performance Adjusted operating profit 862 758 The operating performance of each business segment is Exceptional items and remeasurements 27 109 described in the business segment reviews on pages 15 to 20.
Total operating profit 835 649 Financial performance The following tables set out the revenue, adjusted operating profit We report our financial results and position in accordance with and operating profit of the Group by business segment.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted in Revenues by business segment the European Union.
A summary of the effects of implementing Years ended 31 March IFRS and the principal differences from our results for the year 2006 2005 Continuing operations m m ended 31 March 2005 previously reported under UK GAAP is on UK gas transmission 751 582 pages 24 to 25.
UK gas distribution 1,222 1,113 Continuing and discontinued operations UK gas metering 342 359 The financial results of our business segments as described on Total segment revenues 2,315 2,054 Less: sales between business segments 71 58 page 4 and of other activities are presented within continuing operations.
Revenue 2,244 1,996 The results of the four gas distribution networks sold on 1 June 2005 are no longer included within the UK gas distribution Segmental operating profit before exceptional items segment, but are instead presented as discontinued operations.
and remeasurements Years ended 31 March 2006 2005 Use of adjusted profit measures Continuing operations m m The Group separately discloses items of income and expenditure UK gas transmission 287 277 that are material, either by their nature or their size, and are UK gas distribution 483 419 relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial UK gas metering 107 83 performance.
These include exceptional income or charges that Other activities 15 21 do not relate to the underlying financial performance of the Group Adjusted operating profit 862 758 and remeasurement gains or losses arising from changes in the value of derivative financial instruments, recorded at fair value in Segmental operating profit after exceptional items the balance sheet.
and remeasurements Years ended 31 March In considering the financial performance of the Groups 2006 2005 businesses and segments, we use business performance or Continuing operations m m adjusted profit measures.
References to adjusted operating UK gas transmission 287 274 profit, adjusted profit before taxation and adjusted earnings UK gas distribution 456 313 UK gas metering 107 83 are stated before exceptional items and mark-to-market Other activities 15 21 remeasurements of financial instruments.
Operating profit 835 649 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 13 National Grid Gas Performance during the year Details of the financial performance of business segments, Earnings Years ended 31 March including information on exceptional items and remeasurements, 2006 2005 are included in the business segment reviews on pages 15 to 20.
Continuing operations m m Total operating profit 835 649 Revenue, operating costs and operating profit Net finance costs 209 325 The movements in the year in revenue, operating costs and Profit before taxation 626 324 operating profit can be summarised as follows: Taxation 136 91 Operating Operating Profit from continuing operations 490 233 Revenue costs profit m m m 2004 05 results 1,996 1,347 649 Net finance costs Add back 2004 05 exceptional Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and items and remeasurements 109 109 remeasurements decreased by 141 million from 2004 05 2004 05 adjusted results 1,996 1,238 758 UK gas transmission 169 159 10 to 2005 06.
This was primarily explained by the reduction in our UK gas distribution 109 45 64 net debt following the sales of the four gas distribution networks.
UK gas metering 17 41 24 Other activities 6 6 Exceptional finance costs of 11 million in 2005 06 related to the Sales between businesses 13 13 early repayment of debt, using the proceeds generated from the 2005 06 adjusted results 2,244 1,382 862 network sales.
2005 06 exceptional items Financial remeasurements of 14 million in 2005 06 relate to net and remeasurements 27 27 losses on derivative financial instruments.
2005 06 results 2,244 1,409 835 Taxation A net charge of 136 million arose in 2005 06, compared with Significant increases in revenues and operating costs occured 91 million in 2004 05.
This reflects net tax credits amounting to in both UK gas transmission and UK gas distribution.
16 million and 31 million in respect of exceptional items and Adjusted operating profit increased by 104 million.
This was remeasurements in 2005 06 and 2004 05 respectively.
The driven by favourable results from capacity auctions in LNG effective tax rate was 21.7% for 2005 06 and 28.1% for 2004 05. storage and controllable cost savings in UK gas distribution.
Excluding the effect of net tax credits on exceptional items and These factors more than offset an increase in depreciation remeasurements, the effective tax rate for 2005 06 and 2004 05 charges in UK gas transmission.
was 22.4% and 28.2% respectively, compared with a standard The operating exceptional items for 2005 06 related to UK corporation tax rate of 30% for both years.
A reconciliation restructuring costs, primarily cost reduction programmes.
The of the main components giving rise to the difference between the operating exceptional items for 2004 05 related to 105 million relevant effective tax rate and the UK standard corporation tax of restructuring costs, relating to cost reduction programmes rate is shown in note 10 to the accounts.
and 4 million of environmental costs.
Profit for the year from continuing operations Total operating profit rose by 186 million from 2004 05 to Profit for the year from continuing operations increased from 2005 06, resulting from an increase in adjusted operating profit of 233 million in 2004 05 to 490 million in 2005 06 as a 104 million, and by a reduction in operating exceptional charges consequence of the change in operating profit, net finance and remeasurements of 82 million as compared with 2004 05. costs and taxation.
Earnings from continuing operations Adjusted profit measures Adjusted earnings The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the Years ended 31 March corresponding total profit measure in accordance with IFRS.
2006 2005 Continuing operations m m a Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total Adjusted operating profit 862 758 operating profit Net finance costs excluding Years ended 31 March exceptional items and remeasurements 184 325 2006 2005 Adjusted profit before taxation 678 433 Continuing operations m m Taxation excluding taxation on Adjusted operating profit 862 758 exceptional items and remeasurements 152 122 Exceptional operating items 27 109 Adjusted profit from continuing operations 526 311 Total operating profit 835 649 Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of the Group Income Statement, under the heading Operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
14 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Performance during the year b Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit Net profit for the year before taxation Net profit from both continuing and discontinued operations Years ended 31 March was 2,984 million in 2005 06 529 million in 2004 05.
2006 2005 Continuing operations m m Adjusted profit before taxation 678 433 Cash flows Exceptional operating items 27 109 Cash flows from operating activities Exceptional finance costs 11 Cash generated from continuing operations was 1,055 million in Financial remeasurements 14 2005 06 compared with 1,146 million in 2004 05.
This included Total profit before taxation 626 324 cash flows relating to exceptional items of 79 million and 52 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows relating to Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the discontinued operations and tax paid, net cash inflow from Group Income Statement, under the heading Profit before operating activities was 751 million, compared with taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
1,487 million in 2004 05. c Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings profit Net corporate tax payments amounted to 282 million in 2005 06 for the year compared with 202 million in 2004 05.
Years ended 31 March 2006 2005 Cash inflows from investing activities Continuing operations m m Cash outflows from continuing operations investing activities Adjusted earnings 526 311 increased from 701 million in 2004 05 to 3,692 million in Exceptional operating items 27 109 Exceptional finance costs 11 2005 06.
This was primarily as a result of an interest free loan of Financial remeasurements 14 2,967 million to our immediate parent undertaking, National Grid Tax on exceptional items and remeasurements 16 31 Gas Holdings plc, representing part of the 5,750 million cash Earnings 490 233 received from the sales of four of our gas networks.
Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets, net of disposal proceeds, absorbed cash of 695 million compared with Adjusted earnings is presented on the face of the Group Income 663 million in 2004 05.
Statement, under the heading Profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Cash flows relating to discontinued operations included 5,750 million of disposal proceeds and 115 million of cash outflows from investing activities, compared with 323 million Discontinued operations Years ended 31 March in 2004 05.
2006 2005 m m Cash flows from financing activities Revenue 168 1,102 Net cash used in financing activities of 2,475 million in 2005 06 Operating costs before exceptional items 107 592 compared with 454 million in 2004 05 included 1,937 million Adjusted operating profit 61 510 in respect of repayment of debt using part of the 5,750 million Exceptional items 15 74 cash proceeds from the sales of the four networks.
Payments to Operating profit 46 436 providers of finance, in the form of net interest and dividends, Taxation 18 140 totalled 538 million in 2005 06 compared with 786 million in Profit from discontinued operations 28 296 2004 05.
Net interest cash outflows fell from 286 million in Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 2,466 2004 05 to 228 million in 2005 06, due to the repayment of Profit for the year 2,494 296 debt and lower short-term interest rates.
Discontinued operations comprise the four regional gas Dividends distribution networks we sold on 1 June 2005.
Revenues, Dividends in respect of each financial year 2006 2005 operating costs before exceptional items and adjusted operating m m profit in 2005 06 are substantially lower than for 2004 05 as they Interim 310 500 relate to a two-month period rather than a full year.
In addition, Final 1,500 revenue for those two months is proportionally lower due Total 1,810 500 to seasonality.
The exceptional charge of 15 million in 2005 06 arose from the The table above shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable by payment of a fine in respect of a breach of the Health and Safety National Grid Gas.
These dividends do not include any associated at Work Act 1974 arising from a fatal gas explosion at Larkhall in UK tax credit in respect of such dividends.
The exceptional items in 2004 05 related to In accordance with IFRS, dividends are now reported in the costs incurred in preparation for the disposal of the networks and financial statements for the year in which they are approved.
to reorganisations, primarily due to cost reduction programmes.
As a consequence the final dividend proposed for 2005 06, The gain on disposal of discontinued operations in 2005 06 amounting to 1,500 million, will be reported in the financial relates to the sales of the gas distribution networks.
statements for the year ending 31 March 2007.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 15 National Grid Gas UK gas transmission UK gas transmission Business drivers As gas transmission owner, we own and maintain the physical About the segment assets, develop the network to accommodate new connections Principal activities and disconnections, and manage a programme of asset Our UK gas transmission segment has the following replacement and investment to ensure the long-term reliability principal activities: of the network.
Gas We own the gas transmission network in As gas system operator, we undertake a range of activities transmission Great Britain.
owner necessary for the successful delivery in real-time of secure, This comprises approximately 4,300 miles of high pressure pipe and 26 compressor stations, connecting reliable and efficient energy.
We ensure the system is balanced to eight distribution networks and to third party with supply and demand at the end of each day and we are independent systems for onward transportation required to maintain levels of short-term gas reserves to ensure of gas to end consumers.
that domestic and other non-daily metered gas supplies can Gas system We operate the gas transmission network.
be maintained during prolonged cold conditions.
operator Day-to-day operation includes balancing supply and demand, maintaining satisfactory system pressures The principal business drivers for our UK gas transmission and ensuring gas quality standards are met.
activities include: LNG storage We own and operate four liquefied natural gas LNG the price controls set by Ofgem, which determine the prices storage facilities in the UK.
that can be charged to users of the gas transmission network: capital investment, which drives the regulatory asset value, External and regulatory environment a key component in determining our allowed revenues under The energy markets in the UK are regulated by Ofgem, which our price controls: has the responsibility for promoting competition, wherever our ability to operate reliably, and so to earn incentives for appropriate, and for regulating the companies that own and good performance and avoid penalties for poor performance: operate the infrastructure through which gas is delivered.
meeting regulatory targets for management of the gas The gas infrastructure in the UK primarily comprises the gas system, generating incentives for good performance: and transmission network and eight regional gas distribution our ability to operate efficiently.
Gas is input into the gas transmission network, Our principal business drivers are considered to be the following: which connects with each of the eight regional gas distribution Business driver Description networks, which in turn distribute gas to end consumers.
Price controls The charges that we can make for access to our Detailed arrangements for the gas industry are provided through gas transmission system are currently determined by the Uniform Network Code, which defines the obligations, a formula linked to retail price inflation RPI.
This is responsibilities and roles of the industry participants.
This formula is based upon Ofgems estimates of operating expenditure, capital Certain end consumers, primarily large industrial users, receive expenditure and asset replacement, together with gas direct from the transmission network.
an allowed rate of return.
The current rate of return is set at a real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on our regulatory The Company holds a gas transporter licence in respect of the asset value.
Our regulatory asset value as of gas transmission network.
We have a duty under the Gas Act 31 March 2006 is currently 2.8 billion 2.5 billion 1986 to develop and maintain an efficient and economical March 2005. pipeline system for the conveyance of gas.
Under the terms of Efficiency Our gas system operation has incentive schemes our licence, we receive income through charges to shippers for where, if we operate our network more efficiently than Ofgems forecasts, we can increase our revenues.
entry and exit capacity gas transmission owner activity and gas We have seven incentive schemes covering activities system operator activity and commodity charges gas system such as cost of investment for additional capacity, operator activity.
managing constraints, the cost of purchasing shrinkage gas gas used in operating the system Ofgem sets price controls in respect of the amounts that can be or lost during transport and other gas system charged by the owners and operators of gas infrastructure in the operation costs.
The current price controls in respect of our gas transmission owner and gas system operator activities commenced on 1 April 2002 and are due to continue until 31 March 2007.
The next fiveCurrent and future developments year price control period is due to commence on 1 April 2007.
Licences Our LNG storage facilities do not form part of our gas transmission On 1 May 2005 our gas transporter licence was amended to network and are separately regulated.
A portion of the LNG become specific to our gas transmission activities.
At the same storage capacity is set aside to support network operating time, we were granted five new gas transporter licences specific requirements, with remaining capacity sold to gas shippers.
to gas distribution activities, four of which related to the gas distribution networks subsequently sold on 1 June 2005.
16 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas UK gas transmission UK energy market developments Our carbon dioxide emissions between 1 January and The UK is entering a period of changing supply patterns for gas.
31 December 2005 in the UK were broadly in line in with our The sources of gas are shifting, with the decline in UK continental allocation, and so the scheme did not have a material financial shelf gas reserves and the Governments emphasis on combating effect on our results in 2005 06.
We similarly do not expect the climate change.
We also continue to see trends toward greater scheme to have a significant impact on our results in 2006 or use of gas in power generation with the UK moving towards a 2007.
Phase 2 of the emissions trading scheme, covering the low carbon economy.
period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012, is in the process of being negotiated.
As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the UK continental shelf, our latest forecast is that the UK will import Capital investment around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of the decade.
Investment in gas transmission networks is, by its nature, variable and is largely driven by changing sources of supply and asset Activity to increase import capability has involved the development replacement requirements.
Our gas transporter licence obliges of gas interconnectors and LNG importation facilities by National us to provide connections and capacity upon request.
Grid and other market participants.
These include the Norwegian interconnector and the LNG import facility at Milford Haven in Parts of the gas transmission network are reaching the end addition to National Grids own LNG import facility on the Isle of their lives.
These are mainly compressor stations, control of Grain.
systems and valves ie above ground assets and not the high pressure pipes.
This, together with work required to meet A number of gas pipeline and compressor projects are being changing supply sources, means that the UK gas transmission progressed to meet these developments.
Around 90 miles of gas business will be embarking on a significant increase in investment pipeline is being constructed from Ganstead to Asselby, in the and network renewal.
region of Humberside, and from Pannal in North Yorkshire to Nether Kellett in Lancashire to enable increased imports at To meet the increasing programme of work, we have been Easington.
Around 206 miles of new pipeline is being built in exploring ways to work more efficiently and collaboratively with South Wales and Gloucestershire to cater for the Milford Haven major suppliers and contractors to manage the increase in importation facility, which is to be connected during the 2007 08 workload effectively.
These projects in response to changing supply sources require over 1,000 million in capital expenditure on the Performance during the year gas transmission system in the period up to 2008 09.
Operating performance Gas supply 2005 06 saw a maximum demand for gas of 411 mcm on In 2004 the gas safety case was amended to include a system 1 February 2006.
This decrease on the previous years peak of of safety monitors.
These monitor levels define minimum levels 418 mcm was partly due to increased demand-side response of gas storage required to ensure continued and safe delivery of reflecting the high gas prices that have been experienced this gas to all domestic, other non-daily metered customers and winter.
certain identified priority customers under prolonged winter Our progress against our objectives during the year includes conditions.
the following: For winter 2005 06 we worked with Ofgem and the industry to Objective Performance enhance the level of information that is available to the market Safety During 2005 06 there was an increase in the lost time to further promote industry participant response to the gas injury frequency rate to 0.57 from 0.21 in 2004 05. demand supply position.
Of particular note is the introduction Reliability Compressor fleet performance during 2005 06 of the Daily Summary Report, available on the National Grid improved with the average time between compressor failures at 10% above our five-year average, compared website and the introduction of the Gas Balancing Alert.
This with 24% above the five-year average in the mean system is designed to highlight to the market that a reduction in time between failures in 2004 05. demand might be required when the supply and demand balance is very tight.
Financial performance Emissions trading The results for the UK gas transmission segment for the years The European Union emissions trading scheme commenced ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows: on 1 January 2005.
Its purpose is to reduce the level of carbon dioxide emitted by placing a financial incentive on participants to Years ended 31 March 2006 2005 reduce their emissions of this greenhouse gas.
Allowances are m m granted to participants in accordance with a national allocation Revenue 751 582 plan and any shortfall or surplus can be traded with other Operating costs excluding participants.
exceptional items and remeasurements 464 305 Adjusted operating profit 287 277 Exceptional items 3 Total operating profit 287 274 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 17 National Grid Gas UK gas transmission and UK gas distribution The principal movements between 2004 05 and 2005 06 can UK gas distribution be summarised as follows: About the segment Operating Operating Principal activities Revenue costs profit m m m Our UK gas distribution segment comprises almost half of Great 2004 05 results 582 308 274 Britains gas distribution system, and remains the largest gas Add back 2004 05 exceptional items 3 3 distribution network in the country, consisting of approximately 2004 05 adjusted results 582 305 277 82,000 miles of distribution pipelines.
LNG storage 34 4 30 Transmission owner depreciation We transport gas on behalf of approximately 70 active gas and amortisation 19 19 shippers from the gas national transmission system through Other 135 136 1 our four retained regional distribution networks to around 2005 06 adjusted results 751 464 287 11 million consumers.
2005 06 exceptional items We continue to be responsible for the safety, development, 2005 06 results 751 464 287 maintenance and daily operation of our UK gas distribution networks.
We also continue to manage the national emergency The 169 million increase in UK gas transmission revenue number 0800 111 999 for our networks, the sold networks and comparing 2005 06 with 2004 05 was due to higher pass the other gas transporters.
During 2005 06 we handled around through costs under the gas system operator incentive scheme 2.5 million calls to the national emergency number.
and to beneficial outcomes from the capacity auctions in the External and regulatory environment LNG storage market.
Gas is piped from the gas national transmission system into each Operating costs, excluding exceptional items and remeasurements, of the eight regional gas distribution networks, which in turn increased by 159 million in 2005 06 compared to 2004 05.
This distribute gas to consumers.
is due to increased gas incentivised costs, one-off compensation Detailed arrangements for the gas industry are provided through costs and higher pass through costs, particularly business rates.
the Uniform Network Code, which defines the obligations, Transmission owner depreciation and amortisation has increased responsibilities and roles of the industry participants.
by 19 million due to reassessment of asset lives and an increase in core depreciation reflecting the ramp up in the capital We hold a single gas distribution transporter licence, which programme.
authorises us to operate the four gas distribution networks we own.
However, each of our four networks has its own separate The 10 million increase in UK gas transmission adjusted price control, which establish the prices we can charge for the operating profit comparing 2005 06 with 2004 05 reflected the services provided by each network.
movement in revenue and operating costs as described above.
Ofgem established an estimate of the separate regulatory asset The 3 million exceptional charge in 2004 05 related to cost value associated with each networks distribution assets by reduction programmes.
allocating an estimate of the UK Gas Distribution businesss Capital expenditure regulatory asset value as at 1 April 2002.
This was done in a Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and way aimed at minimising short-term regional differentials in extension of the UK gas transmission systems in 2005 06 was transportation charges.
360 million compared with 128 million in 2004 05.
2005 06 has seen a substantial increase in the level of capital investment in gas pipeline projects, some 156 million higher than 2004 05.
2006 2005 m m Property, plant & equipment 311 108 Intangible 49 20 Capital investment 360 128 This includes 41 million of additions relating to emissions allowances received during 2005 06.
18 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas UK gas distribution Business drivers Current and future developments Business drivers specific to the segment include: Network sales On 1 June 2005, we successfully completed the planned sales Business driver Description of four of our eight gas distribution networks Scotland, Wales Price controls The price controls that apply to UK gas distribution and West, North of England and South of England, at a price take into account Ofgems estimates of operating expenditure, capital expenditure, replacement of 5.8 billion, a considerable premium to the regulatory asset expenditure and allowed rate of return which is value.
From the cash sale proceeds National Grid returned currently set at a real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on our 2 billion to its shareholders and we have repaid around regulatory asset value.
As at 31 March 2006, our 1.9 billion of debt.
regulatory asset value is estimated at approximately 5.9 billion.
During the coming year, we will be working with the sold Factors driving The network price control formulae specify a networks in their exit from existing transitional agreements.
revenue maximum allowed revenue for each network.
Each These agreements came into place prior to completion of the formula retains a 65% fixed, 35% variable revenue network sales and amongst these, we provide a front office associated with transportation volume changes, a managed service and a system operation service to the mains replacement incentive mechanism and the pass-through of prescribed rates and gas transporter sold networks.
In any year, revenue can be more or less Regulatory price control reviews than is allowed under the price control formula, although it should be set to recover allowed revenue.
Ofgem intends to extend the current five-year gas distribution Any difference is carried forward and our charges are price control for a further year through an extension price control adjusted accordingly to cover the year ending 31 March 2008.
Discussions have Replacement Replacement expenditure maintains the safety of commenced with Ofgem in relation to this extension period.
expenditure the network, by the replacement of older gas pipes The next full price control period will now cover the period from with modern pipes.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2013. replacement expenditure as recoverable during the year and 50% as recoverable over future years.
Business improvements Each network is subject to its own mains Following completion of the Way Ahead restructuring replacement incentive mechanism and retains 33% programme, a series of strategic development initiatives has been of any outperformance against Ofgems annual cost targets as additional return or, alternatively, bears delivered in support of our aim to be the most efficient UK gas 50% of any overspend if it underperforms.
Centralisation of many key processes has Capital To ensure supply security and to meet growing enabled us to place increased emphasis on safety and efficiency expenditure expenditure customer demand.
Central co-ordination while sharing best practice across the organisation and delivering ensures capital investment is effective and efficient.
This has resulted in the consolidation of 14 regional office locations into three key centres Warwick, Hinckley and Northampton.
Standards of service Ofgem has established standards of service we are required to Centralising our asset management, job scheduling and dispatch meet that apply to our operations.
These include: processes has achieved economies of scale while maintaining overall standards of service, for example answering 90% local alignment of our operational workforce to satisfy consumer of all calls to the national gas emergency number within 30 requirements.
seconds of the call being connected and informing 97% Control of the gas distribution networks for Great Britain has of all consumers when they are due to be reconnected after been integrated into the business during the year.
New an unplanned interruption: connections work associated with domestic premises has also connections standards of service that require us to provide been integrated, which has resulted in improved efficiency, as connections to consumers to agreed timescales: and well as meeting the requirements of our customers on a more guaranteed standards of service for our other transportation consistent basis.
Compensation is paid to customers for any failures to meet these guaranteed standards.
Performance during the year Operating performance Actual gas consumption rose to 347 TWh in 2005 06, compared with 344 TWh in 2004 05 due to the weather being colder in 2005 06.
However, underlying levels of gas demand, excluding the effects of weather, fell from 357 TWh in 2004 05 to 346 TWh in 2005 06, due to the increasing levels of gas supply prices during 2005 06 affecting usage.
The reduction was experienced across all types of consumers, but was particularly noticeable for larger users.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 19 National Grid Gas UK gas distribution Progress against our operating performance objectives during Revenues in UK gas distribution increased by 109 million in the year included the following notable items: 2005 06 compared with 2004 05, including a 45 million increase in revenue recovered under the distribution price control formula.
Objective Performance The weather in 2005 06 was colder than 2004 05 and this Safety As described on page 11 there was one employee contributed 29 million of the increase, and an average price fatality during 2005 06. rise of 4.6% was implemented on 1 October 2005 resulting in Lost time injuries for the retained networks fell from a further 33 million increase.
This was partially offset by a 56 in 2004 05 to 24 in 2005 06, a 57% decrease.
The lost time injury frequency rate fell from 0.35 17 million reduction in underlying volumes.
Other revenues increased by 64 million in 2005 06 compared We again exceeded our targets on safety-related with 2004 05, primarily because of the provision of services to standards more than 97% of uncontrolled gas escapes where the gas leak cannot be controlled the four regional gas distribution networks following their sales by turning the gas supply off at the meter were on 1 June 2005. attended within one hour, and more than 98% of controlled gas escapes where the gas leak can Significant cost efficiencies have been achieved as a result of the be controlled at the meter were attended within Way Ahead restructuring programme.
Controllable costs, which two hours.
exclude increases in ongoing pension costs and gas commodity We decommissioned in excess of 1,710 km of gas prices, as well as the costs of providing services to the sold pipes in 2005 06, in line with our target of 1,724 km, networks and the Groups other businesses, decreased by 19% compared with 1,458 km in 2004 05. in real terms during the year.
They have now reduced by 35% in Reliability Over the year we have achieved all our connections real terms since March 2002, thus achieving one year early the standards of service along with all other standards of service set by Ofgem that relate to our gas target reduction originally set for March 2007. transportation services.
Total operating costs excluding exceptional items and Efficiency Our target of 35% reduction in controllable costs has remeasurements increased by 45 million in 2005 06 compared been achieved one year early.
with 2004 05. Business rates increased by 23 million following Our performance under the current distribution changes to rateable values from 1 April 2005, but these have network exit incentive scheme during 2005 06 and the incentive mechanism for mains replacement was been recovered through the price increases under the distribution broadly neutral.
price control, as referred to above.
The remaining increases in During the year ended 31 March 2006, we made operating costs of 22 million were primarily because of the around 50,000 new connections to our network.
effects of higher gas commodity prices, and the costs of providing services to the sold networks and the Groups other businesses, partially offset by the savings made in Way Ahead operating costs.
Financial performance The results for the UK gas distribution segment for the years Adjusted operating profit was 64 million higher in 2005 06 than ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2004 05, an increase of 15%.
Years ended 31 March Exceptional charges of 27 million in 2005 06 and 106 million in 2006 2005 m m 2004 05 predominantly related to restructuring costs under the Way Ahead programme.
Revenue 1,222 1,113 Operating costs excluding Operating profit was 143 million higher in 2005 06 than exceptional items and remeasurements 739 694 2004 05, reflecting the movements in revenues, operating costs Adjusted operating profit 483 419 and exceptional items explained above.
Exceptional items 27 106 Total operating profit 456 313 Capital expenditure Gross investment in the reinforcement, extension and replacement of the UK gas distribution network was 444 million The principal movements between 2004 05 and 2005 06 can be in 2005 06 compared with 381 million in 2004 05.
This excludes summarised as follows: the investment in the four regional gas distribution networks that Operating Operating Revenue costs profit were sold on 1 June 2005. m m m Years ended 31 March 2004 05 results 1,113 800 313 2006 2005 Add back 2004 05 exceptional items 106 106 m m 2004 05 adjusted results 1,113 694 419 Reinforcement and extension 149 126 Business rates pass through 23 23 Replacement expenditure 295 255 Weather and volumes 12 12 Capital investment in the continuing business 444 381 Other price changes 10 10 Way Ahead operating costs 52 52 Gas commodity costs 17 17 Other 64 57 7 2005 06 adjusted results 1,222 739 483 2005 06 exceptional items 27 27 2005 06 results 1,222 766 456 20 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas UK gas distribution, UK gas metering and other activities Reinforcement and extension expenditure increased from Financial performance 126 million in 2004 05 to 149 million in 2005 06 because of The results for the UK gas metering segment for the years ended a higher level of investment in the reinforcement of high pressure 31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows: pipelines, such projects being dependent on forecasts of future Years ended 31 March 2006 2005 demand, as well as higher expenditure on new connections and m m the replacement of commercial vehicles.
Revenue 342 359 Operating costs excluding Replacement expenditure increased from 255 million in exceptional items and remeasurements 235 276 2004 05 to 295 million in 2005 06 in line with the planned Adjusted operating profit 107 83 increase in the long-term iron mains replacement programme Exceptional items agreed with the HSE.
Total operating profit 107 83 UK gas metering The principal movements between 2004 05 and 2005 06 can be summarised as follows: About the segment Operating Operating Principal activities Revenue costs profit Our UK gas metering segment provides installation, maintenance m m m and meter reading services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas 2004 05 results 359 276 83 Add back 2004 05 exceptional items market.
It provides services to an asset base of around 20 million domestic, industrial and commercial gas meters, situated 2004 05 adjusted results 359 276 83 Business rates 28 28 throughout Great Britain.
Other 17 13 4 External and regulatory environment 2005 06 adjusted results 342 235 107 UK gas metering is regulated by Ofgem as it has a dominant 2005 06 exceptional items market position in the provision of existing meters to UK 2005 06 results 342 235 107 gas suppliers.
Business drivers Revenue for UK gas metering has fallen by 17 million reflecting The principal business drivers for UK gas metering are considered reducing market share.
to be as follows: Operating costs have decreased by 41 million.
This is due to a Regulatory UK gas metering operates within the parameters set change in the valuation basis for business rates and a reduction price controls out within the Companys gas transporter licences.
in other costs linked to the reduction in revenues.
Multi-year The majority of UK gas meterings domestic meters contractual are covered by long-term contracts with gas The increase in operating profit of 24 million is explained by the arrangements suppliers.
These contracts provide gas suppliers decrease in revenues and operating costs.
with the flexibility to replace our meters whilst reducing the risk of asset stranding.
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure in 2005 06 amounted to 64 million, a decrease of 2 million compared with 66 million in 2004 05.
Current and future developments UK gas metering is investing in new automated meter reading Other activities systems in response to customer requirements.
About other activities Other activities includes corporate overheads that are not Performance during the year allocated to individual businesses.
Operating performance Our progress against our principal non-financial operating objectives during the year included the following: Objective Performance Safety There was a reduction in the total number of employee lost time injuries from 3 in 2004 05 to 1 in 2005 06.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 21 National Grid Gas Financial position and financial management Financial position and The Group believes this adjusted ratio is a more relevant measure of gearing than one based on book values alone, because the financial management book values do not reflect the economic value of the regulated Going concern business assets.
A reconciliation of the adjustments necessary Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company to calculate adjusted net assets is shown in the table below: and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business 2006 2005 for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to m m adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Net assets per balance sheet 7,506 4,904 Adjustment for regulatory asset values 2,900 3,700 Deferred tax 870 1,110 Capital structure Adjusted net assets 9,536 7,494 Balance sheet Our balance sheet at 31 March 2006 can be summarised as follows: Shareholders equity Net Shareholders equity rose from 4,904 million at 31 March 2005 Assets Liabilities assets m m m to 7,506 million at 31 March 2006.
This increased for the same reasons that net assets increased.
Property, plant and equipment and non-current intangible assets 8,063 8,063 Other non-current assets and liabilities 5,614 1,015 4,599 Liquidity and treasury management Current assets and liabilities 659 934 275 Deferred tax 1,543 1,543 Cash flow Total before net debt 14,336 3,492 10,844 Cash flows from our operations are largely stable over a period of Net debt 478 3,816 3,338 years, but they do depend on the timing of customer payments.
Total as at 31 March 2006 14,814 7,308 7,506 The Groups UK gas transmission and distribution operations are Total as at 31 March 2005 15,902 10,998 4,904 subject to multi-year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
This results in essentially stable cash flows.
However, weather conditions can affect cash flows in those businesses, The increase in net assets from 4,904 million at 31 March 2005 with abnormally mild or cold weather driving volumes down or to 7,506 million at 31 March 2006 resulted from the profit from up respectively.
continuing operations of 490 million, the profit for the year from discontinued operations of 2,494 million and other changes in Over time, the Group expects to fund investment expenditure equity of 3 million, partially offset by net expenses recognised from its operating cash flows, through price control agreements directly in equity of 16 million, dividends paid of 310 million and with Ofgem.
the effect of the implementation of IAS 39 of 59 million.
Cash flow forecasting Net debt and gearing Both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts are produced Net debt decreased by 2.0 billion from 5.3 billion at 31 March frequently to assist in identifying the liquidity requirements of 2005 to 3.3 billion at 31 March 2006, primarily as a result of the Group.
debt repayments following the disposals of the four regional gas These forecasts are supplemented by a financial headroom networks for 5.8 billion, partly offset by an increase of position, details of which are supplied to the Finance Committee 0.3 billion relating to the adoption of IAS 39. of the National Grid Board regularly to demonstrate funding The composition of net debt at 31 March 2006 is shown in note adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
The Group also 28 c to the accounts.
maintains a minimum level of committed facilities in support of that objective.
Gearing at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005, calculated as net debt at that date expressed as a percentage of net debt plus net Credit facilities and unutilised Commercial Paper and assets shown in the balance sheet, amounted to 31% and 52% Medium Term Note Programmes respectively.
By comparison, the gearing ratio, adjusted for the The Group has both committed and uncommitted facilities inclusion of regulated businesses at their estimated regulatory that are available for general corporate purposes.
asset values adjusted gearing ratio, amounted to 26% at At 31 March 2006, National Grid Gas plc had a US$2.5 billion US 31 March 2006 compared with 41% 31 March 2005.
Commercial Paper Programme unutilised and a US$1.25 billion Euro Commercial Paper Programme unutilised : and National Grid Gas plc and National Grid Gas Holdings plc had a joint Euro Medium Term Note Programme of e10 billion e6.6 billion unissued.
22 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Financial position and financial management At 31 March 2006, the Group had 840 million of long term It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around National Grid committed facilities undrawn, 25 million of short-term 364 day Gas plc that it uses reasonable endeavours to maintain an committed facilities undrawn and 0.9 billion of uncommitted investment grade credit rating.
At these ratings, it should have borrowing facilities undrawn.
good access to the capital and money markets for future funding when necessary.
Treasury policy The funding and treasury risk management of the Group is The main risks arising from the Groups financing activities are set carried on its behalf by a central department operating under out below.
The Board of National Grid and the Finance policies and guidelines approved by the Board of National Grid.
Committee of that Board review and agree policies for managing The Finance Committee, a committee of the Board of National each risk and they are summarised below.
Grid, is responsible for regular review and monitoring of treasury Refinancing risk management activity and for approval of specific transactions, the authority for The Board of National Grid controls refinancing risk mainly by which may be delegated.
The National Grid group has a Treasury limiting the amount of financing obligations both principal and function that raises all the funding for the National Grid group and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
This policy manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
restricts the Group from having an excessively large amount There is a separate financing programme for National Grid Gas.
of debt to refinance in a given time-frame.
During the year, The Finance Committees of both National Grid and of National a mixture of short-term and long-term debt was issued.
Grid Gas approve all funding programmes.
Interest rate risk management The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
The interest rate exposure of the Group arising from its Debt and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of fixed and manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated rate agreements.
The Groups interest rate risk management business requirement.
policy is to seek to minimise total financing costs being interest costs and changes in the market value of debt subject to The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by policy constraints so that, even with large movements in interest rates, guidelines set by the Board of National Grid.
Derivatives entered neither the interest cost nor the total financing cost can exceed into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of the pre-set limits.
business operational requirements and the policy regarding their use is explained below.
The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by comparing the actual total The Group had borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2006 financing costs of its debt with those of a passively-managed amounting to 3,712 million 31 March 2005: 5,276 million.
The table in note 22 shows the expected maturity of these borrowings.
Foreign exchange risk management The Group has a policy of hedging certain contractually The Group has in place appropriate committed facilities, and committed foreign exchange transactions over a prescribed believes that the maturing amounts in respect of its contractual minimum size.
It covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions obligations as shown in Commitments and Contingencies can expected to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum be met from these facilities, operating cash flows and other of 50% of transactions six to twelve months in advance.
Cover refinancings that it reasonably expects to be able to secure in the generally takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign future.
The Groups financial position enables it to borrow on the currencies and must always relate to underlying operational wholesale capital and money markets and most of its borrowings cash flows.
are through public bonds and commercial paper.
The currency and average interest rate compositions of the The Group places surplus funds on the money markets, usually Groups financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 18 in the form of short-term fixed deposits that are invested with to the accounts.
Details relating to the Groups cash, short-term investments and other financial assets Counterparty risk management at 31 March 2006 are shown in note 18 to the accounts.
Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments.
The Finance Committee National Grid Gas plc has a credit rating of A2 A A provided by of National Grid has agreed a policy for managing such risk, Moodys, S&P and Fitch respectively.
which is controlled through credit limits, approvals and monitoring In connection with the proposed acquisition of KeySpan by procedures.
Where multiple transactions are entered into with a National Grid, the outlook for the ratings of the Group has been single counterparty, a master netting arrangement can be put in moved to Creditwatch with negative implications by S&P.
place to reduce the Groups exposure to credit risk of that Moodys have placed the ratings of National Grid Gas plc on counterparty.
At the present time the Group uses standard negative outlook.
International Swap Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA agreement with a counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 23 National Grid Gas Financial position and financial management Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other Interest rate sensitivity than trading Details of the sensitivity of the Groups income statement and As part of its business operations, the Group is exposed to risks equity to changes in UK interest rates are set out in note 18. arising from fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
The Under the assumptions set out in note 18, a 0.10% change in Group uses financial instruments derivatives to manage UK interest rates would affect the income statement by 8 million, exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in reducing risk.
but would have no effect on equity.
The Groups policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions can, to varying degrees, carry both Commodity contracts counterparty and market risk.
Commodity derivatives In the normal course of business, the Group is party to The Group enters into interest rate swaps to manage the commodity derivatives.
These have included gas futures, gas composition of floating and fixed rate debt and so hedge the options and gas forwards that are used to manage commodity exposure of borrowings to interest rate movements.
In addition, prices associated with its gas delivery operations.
This includes the Group enters into bought and written option contracts on the repurchase of capacity rights already sold in accordance with interest rate swaps.
These contracts are known as swaptions.
the Groups UK gas transporter licences and Uniform Network The Group also enters into foreign currency swaps to manage the Code obligations.
currency composition of borrowings and so hedge the exposure to exchange rate movements.
Certain agreements are combined These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an foreign currency and interest rate swap transactions.
Such integral part of the Groups financial risk management policy.
At agreements are known as cross currency swaps.
the core of this policy is a condition that the Group will engage in activities at risk only to the extent that those activities fall within The Group enters into forward rate agreements to hedge interest commodities and financial markets to which it has a physical rate risk on short-term debt and money market investments.
market exposure in terms and volumes consistent with its core Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an interest business.
The Group does not issue or intend to hold derivative rate that is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of instruments for trading purposes, and holds such instruments specified maturity, starting at a future specified date.
consistent with its various licence and regulatory obligations.
More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in Commodity trading note 18 to the accounts.
In our UK gas transmission operation we are obliged to offer for Valuation and sensitivity analysis sale, through a series of auctions both shortand long-term, a The Group calculates the fair value of debt and derivative predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the year instruments by discounting all future cash flows by the market at specified locations.
Where, on the day, the gas transmission yield curve at the balance sheet date.
The market yield curve for systems capability is constrained, such that gas is prevented each currency is obtained from external sources for interest and from entering the system for which entry capacity rights have foreign exchange rates.
In the case of instruments that include been sold, then UK gas transmission is required to buy back options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used those entry capacity rights sold in excess of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to reduce the risk and exposure to on-the-day entry capacity prices.
The valuation techniques described above for interest rate swaps and currency swaps are a standard market methodology.
These techniques do not take account of the credit quality of either Commitments and contingencies party but this is not considered to be a significant factor unless The Groups commitments and contingencies outstanding at there is a material deterioration in the credit quality of either party.
31 March are summarised in the table below: In relation to swaptions, the Group only uses swaptions 2006 2005 m m for hedging purposes with a European style exercise.
As a Future capital expenditure consequence, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is contracted but not provided for 767 313 considered to be sufficiently accurate for the purpose of providing Total operating lease commitments 95 110 fair value information in relation to these types of swaptions.
More Other commitments and contingencies 154 140 sophisticated valuation models exist but the Group does not believe it is necessary to employ these models, given the extent of its activities in this area.
For debt and derivative instruments held, the Group utilises a sensitivity analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of such instruments.
24 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Financial position and financial management, and Accounting policies Retirement arrangements Accounting policies The substantial majority of the Groups employees are members Basis of accounting of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, formerly named the The consolidated financial statements present our results for the Lattice Group Pension Scheme the Scheme.
years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 and our financial position The Scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed as at 31 March 2006 and 2005.
They have been prepared using to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is the accounting policies shown, in accordance with International offered to all new employees.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
An actuarial valuation of the Scheme is being carried out as at 31 March 2006 and has not yet been completed.
Segmental reporting The last completed full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was as In addition to presenting the consolidated financial results and at 31 March 2003.
This concluded that the pre-tax deficit was financial position in the financial statements, we provide a 879 million 615 million net of tax in the defined benefit section breakdown of those results and balances into our business on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
The presentation of segment information is based on An interim annual assessment of the Scheme was conducted at the management responsibilities that existed at 31 March 2006.
This assessment showed that the deficit has Our business segments are UK gas transmission, UK gas decreased in the defined benefit section on the basis of the distribution and UK gas metering, with corporate activities funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
Geographical segments are It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the not reported as our activities are all within the UK.
2003 actuarial valuation will need to be provided to the Scheme UK LNG storage activities are now included within the UK gas until the outcome of the actuarial valuation at 31 March 2007 is transmission segment and UK gas metering is reported as a known.
At this point, National Grid will pay the gross amount of separate segment, both having previously been reported within any deficit up to a maximum amount of 520 million 364 million Other activities.
This change in segmental presentation follows a net of tax into the scheme.
National Grid Gas share of these change in the organisational and management structure within payments is 468m 328m net of tax.
Until the 31 March 2007 the Group.
actuarial valuation has been completed, National Grid has arranged for banks to provide the trustees of the Scheme with The results of the four gas distribution networks sold on 1 June letters of credit.
The main conditions under which these letters 2005 are no longer included within the UK gas distribution of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the segment, but are instead presented as discontinued operations.
interests of the Scheme, such as National Grid Gas becoming insolvent or National Grid failing to make agreed payments into Adoption of IFRS the fund.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of With effect from 1 April 2005, we present our consolidated the Scheme are currently being made at a rate of 23.7% of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements presents the impact of conversion from UK GAAP to IFRS on the financial Details of material litigation to which the Group was results for the year ended 31 March 2005 and the financial a party at 31 March 2006 position at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2004.
The Group was not party to litigation that was considered to be material at 31 March 2006.
The principal differences to our reported results and financial position between UK GAAP and IFRS are as follows: Replacement Replacement expenditure, primarily relating to our Related party transactions expenditure UK gas distribution networks, was expensed under The Group provides services to and receives services from related UK GAAP but is capitalised under IFRS parties.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group charged Intangible Computer software assets are included within 19 million and received charges of 208 million from its related assets tangible fixed assets under UK GAAP, but are parties other than Directors, compared with 48 million and disclosed as other intangible assets under IFRS 386 million respectively in 2004 05.
Deferred Deferred tax under UK GAAP was recorded based taxation on timing differences.
Under IFRS deferred tax is Further information relating to related party transactions is recorded based on temporary differences, in most contained within note 29 to the accounts.
cases being the difference between an asset or liabilities carrying value in the balance sheet and its associated tax basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 25 National Grid Gas Accounting policies Summary of the impact of adoption of IFRS Choices made in adopting IFRS The impact of the adoption of IFRS on net assets at 31 March We were required to make a number of choices on the adoption 2005 and 1 April 2004 can be summarised as follows: of IFRS.
The principal choices available to us and the choices adopted were as follows: 31 March 1 April 2005 2004 m m Option Choices available Choice adopted Net assets as reported under UK GAAP 1,946 2,141 Date of 1 April 2003 1 April 2004 Replacement expenditure 3,014 2,778 transition 1 April 2004 Deferred taxation 58 46 to IFRS Other 2 Financial Adopt IAS 39 retrospectively Adopt IAS 39 on Net assets reported under IFRS 4,904 4,873 instruments 1 April 2005 Adopt IAS 39 on 1 April 2004 Adopt IAS 39 on 1 April 2005 Carrying value Depreciated cost adjusted Depreciated cost The impact of the adoption of IFRS on the profit for the year of assets at for IFRS changes adjusted for IFRS ended 31 March 2005 can be summarised as follows: date of changes in most Fair value at date of transition 2005 transition cases m Share based Recognise all active grants Recognise all Profit for the year as reported under UK GAAP 303 payments retrospectively active grants Replacement expenditure 236 retrospectively Recognise only grants since Deferred taxation 12 already adopted 7 November 2002 Other 2 under UK GAAP Profit for the year reported under IFRS 529 with FRS 20 Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations 296 Use of Adopt IFRS for parent Retain UK GAAP Profit for the year from continuing operations 233 UK GAAP company and subsidiaries for parent and or IFRS in subsidiaries IFRS for parent company and Individual individual financial UK GAAP for subsidiaries Amounts shown above are net of any related deferred tax on the accounts statements Retain UK GAAP for parent underlying IFRS adjustment.
and subsidiaries Accounting for financial instruments On 1 April 2005, we implemented new accounting policies for financial instruments on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
As a Critical accounting policies consequence, derivative financial instruments are recorded on the The application of accounting principles requires us to make balance sheet at fair value, with changes in those values recorded estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the in the income statement or in equity.
Our new accounting policies reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and are described on pages 37 and 38. the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates using historical The impact of the adoption was to increase net debt by experience, consultation with experts and other methods that we 269 million from 5,260 million to 5,529 million, and to reduce consider reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure net assets by 59 million as described in note 2 to the accounts.
Actual results may differ significantly from As permitted by IFRS 1, we adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with our estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in no restatement of comparatives, and so the balance sheet at which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
31 March 2005 and the income statement for the year then ended Certain of the Groups accounting policies have been identified as have not been restated for these changes in accounting policies.
critical accounting policies, as these policies involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the Groups accounting policies set out in Group financial statements.
26 Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Accounting policies Our critical accounting policies and accounting treatments are Hedge We use derivative financial instruments to hedge accounting certain economic exposures arising from movements considered to be: in exchange and interest rates or other factors that Estimated The reported amounts for amortisation of intangible could affect either the value of our assets or liabilities asset fixed assets and depreciation of property, plant or affect our future cash flows.
economic and equipment can be materially affected by the Movements in the fair values of derivative financial lives judgments exercised in determining their estimated instruments may be accounted for using hedge economic lives.
accounting where we meet the relevant eligibility, Intangible asset amortisation and depreciation documentation and effectiveness testing of property, plant and equipment amounted to requirements.
If a hedge does not meet the strict 19 million and 395 million respectively in 2005 06 criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is and 16 million and 371 million respectively in ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the 2004 05. movements will be recorded in the income statement immediately instead of being recognised in the Carrying value The carrying value of assets recorded in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense of assets and consolidated balance sheet could be materially or by being offset by adjustments to the carrying potential for reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as value of debt.
Our total assets at 31 March 2006 were 14,814 million, including 8,029 million of Assets held At 31 March 2005, the planned sales of four of our property, plant and equipment, 34 million of other for sale and regional gas distribution networks did not meet the intangible assets and 5,611 million owed by the discontinued criteria to be classified as assets held for sale.
On Groups immediate parent undertaking.
operations 1 May 2005, these criteria were met and the assets Impairment reviews are carried out either when a and liabilities of these businesses were classified as change in circumstance is identified that indicates assets held for sale and depreciation ceased from an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review that date until their disposal on the 1 June 2006. involves calculating either or both of the fair value The results of these operations have been classified or the value-in-use of an asset or group of assets as discontinued operations and the comparatives and comparing with the carrying value in the reclassified accordingly.
These calculations involve the use The determination of the date that the planned sales of assumptions as to the price that could be met the criteria to be classified as assets held for obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be sale is a matter of judgment by management, with generated by, an asset or group of assets, together consequential impact on balance sheet presentation with an appropriate discount rate to apply to those and the amount recorded for depreciation in the cash flows.
results of the discontinued operation.
Revenue Revenue includes an assessment of transportation Exceptional Exceptional items, in particular restructuring costs, accruals services supplied to customers between the date of items are items of income or expense which are identified the last meter reading and the year end.
Changes to as being material or one-off in nature that need to the estimate of the transportation services supplied be separately identified in the income statement.
during this period would have an impact on the Restructuring costs principally comprise severance reported results of the Group.
or other costs necessary to complete a major Our estimates of unbilled revenues amounted programme of restructuring.
to 136 million at 31 March 2006 compared with Judgement is required in deciding the classification 172 million at 31 March 2005. of items as exceptional.
Assets and Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial Provisions Provision is made for liabilities that are uncertain liabilities investments and derivative financial instruments, are in estimates.
These include provisions for the carried at carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather cost of environmental restoration and remediation, fair value than historical cost.
The fair value of financial investments is based on Calculations of these provisions are based on market prices, as are those of derivative financial estimated cash flows relating to these costs, instruments where market prices exist.
Other discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact derivative financial instruments are valued using of discounting is material.
The total costs and timing financial models, which include judgments on, in of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are particular, future movements in exchange and interest based on management estimates supported by the rates as well as equity prices.
At 31 March 2006, we have recorded provisions totalling 128 million 2005: 185 million, including 44 million 2005: 89 million in respect of environmental liabilities.
Tax estimates The Groups tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates in effect.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation requires us to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate our ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
Our estimates and assumptions may differ from future events.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review 27 National Grid Gas Accounting policies In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions Forthcoming changes in IFRS could have on our results and financial position, the following The following accounting standards and interpretations have not sensitivities are presented: yet been adopted, but are expected to be adopted by the Group in future periods.
Implementation of the following interpretations Asset An increase in the useful economic lives of assets are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups economic lives of one year on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on property, plant and results, assets or liabilities.
equipment by 23 million and our annual Leases International Financial Reporting Interpretations amortisation charge on intangible assets by Committee IFRIC 4 Determining whether an 4 million.
arrangement contains a lease provides guidance Revenue A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues on determining whether arrangements which convey accruals at 31 March 2006 would result in an increase or the right to use an asset in return for a series of decrease in our recorded net assets and profit for payments should be accounted for in accordance the year by approximately 10 million net of tax.
Assets carried A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair Share based IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 addresses the issue of at fair value value would result in an increase or decrease in the payments whether IFRS 2 Share Based Payment applies carrying value of derivative financial instruments of to transactions in which the entity cannot identify 11 million.
specifically some or all of the goods or services Hedge If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial received.
accounting instruments during the year ended 31 March 2006 Embedded IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit derivatives prohibits reassessment of the treatment of for the year would have been 12 million lower than embedded derivatives subsequent to initial that reported net of tax and net assets would have recognition unless there is a change in the terms been 1 million higher.
of the contract that significantly modifies the cash Provisions A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows flows that otherwise would be required under the estimated in respect of provisions for liabilities would contract, in which case reassessment is required.
result in an increase or decrease in net assets of approximately 11 million.
Accounting developments New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2005 06 In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the Group has complied with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and interpretations applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 April 2005.
Capital Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial resource Statements requires new disclosures about entities disclosures management of their capital resources and compliance with capital requirements.
Pensions Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial costs, assets Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures and liabilities removes the requirement for the Group to recognise a proportionate share of the actuarial gains and losses and assets and liabilities of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
Cash flow Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: hedges Recognition and Measurement: Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction to qualify as a hedged item in consolidated financial statements, provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
Financial IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures replaces instrument the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 and locates disclosures in one place all disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The new requirements incorporate many of IAS 32s disclosures as well as additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the risks arising from financial instruments.
