Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends and factors underlying the External market environment development, performance and position of the businesses reported in these regulatory accounting The principal market in which National Grid Gas operates is the gas energy market in the UK.
statements during the year ended 31 March 2006 as well as those likely to affect their future development, performance and position.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided in Gas energy market in the UK the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review issued by the UK Accounting The supply of gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can contract with different suppliers to Standards Board in January 2006. obtain the energy they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing that energy from gas producers or importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for that energy to be delivered through physical delivery networks.
These networks, including the ones that National Grid Gas operates, are About National Grid Gas monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no methods of receiving Principal operations energy other than through those networks.
National Grid Gas plc is a part of National Grid plc.
Its principal operations are in regulated gas networks and comprise the transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering Energy is transported through the national transmission system NTS to regional gas DNs that then services within Great Britain.
deliver that energy to consumers.
National Grid Gas is the owner and operator of the NTS and of four of the eight regional DNs in Great Britain, and transports gas through its networks on behalf of gas Company name shippers.
Contractual arrangements between the shippers and National Grid Gas are set out in the National Grid Gas plc changed its name from Transco plc on 10 October 2005.
History Energy market developments National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
In 2005, following The UK is entering a period of changing supply patterns for both gas and electricity, as more reliance the sales of four UK regional gas distribution networks, National Grid was adopted as a single name is placed on imported gas.
The decline in UK continental shelf gas reserves and the Governments for all of its principal businesses.
emphasis on combating climate change mean that there is a continued trend towards greater use of imported gas for both consumption and for power generation.
Key milestones British Gas incorporated as a public limited company 1986 These changes will have an impact on the NTS and National Grid Gass DNs.
In particular, significant investment is likely to be required to link new power plants and gas import facilities with domestic, 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica business and industrial consumers.
1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses Regulatory environment of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco As a result of National Grid Gass position in, and importance to, the UK economy, its NTS and DN 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group businesses are subject to UK and European Union laws and regulations.
Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National Grid Transco 2002 Its businesses are regulated under the Gas Act 1986 by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Sales of four regional gas distribution networks 2005 Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets 2005 National Grid Transco renamed National Grid and National Grid adopted as the group brand Authority, and has established price control mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can name be earned by regulated businesses, typically covering five-year price control periods.
2005 Transco renamed National Grid Gas National Grid Gass businesses are covered by safety legislation which is enforced by the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
Gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby National Grid Businesses Gass organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases that are subject to These DN regulatory accounting statements include the following regulatory businesses and activities acceptance by the HSE.
of National Grid Gas: National Grid Gas has securities which are listed on the London Stock Exchange and on the New Distribution network Provide gas distribution services in four geographic regions: the North York Stock Exchange.
Accordingly, it is regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the UK and by DN businesses West of England: the West Midlands: the East of England: and North the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
London Provides regulated gas metering services throughout Great Britain.
Metering business More information on the regulatory environment in which National Grid Gas operates is provided in Meter reading business Provides meter reading services for third parties and for National Grid the business discussions on pages 7 to 10.
Gass DN and NTS businesses.
fide-minimis activities Other business activities carried out in association with the DN and metering businesses which are not subject to direct regulation by Ofgem.
Other activities carried out in association with the DN and metering Other activities businesses with the specific consent of Ofgem.
3 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Regulatory developments A number of other factors also affect National Grid Gass financial performance, but are less Regulatory developments during the year included: significant than the principal business drivers above, or are mitigated by the way operations are structured: on 1 May 2005, National Grid Gas was granted separate gas transporter licences for its NTS business and its DN business and each of the DNs that it subsequently sold, replacing the single integrated transmission and distribution licence that it held previously.
A new Uniform Volumes Changes in the quantities of gas delivered through the NTS and the DNs may Network Code was introduced by Ofgem, establishing the mechanisms for the operation of the result in an increase or decrease in revenues.
Volumes are affected by UK gas delivery market participants: and weather, consumer demand and network availability as well as other factors.
Ofgem has extended the current gas distribution price control review originally scheduled to end The impact of changing volumes may sometimes be offset by changes in costs on 31 March 2007 to 31 March 2008.
The next five year price control review period will or may sometimes result in an underor over-recovery against allowable commence on 1 April 2008. revenue, with a corresponding increase or decrease in revenue in future periods.
Business drivers Commodity and National Grid Gas is affected by movements in commodity prices to the extent National Grid Gass principal activities comprise the operation of highly complex gas networks.
As a pass-through costs that they affect its own energy requirements, the most significant of which consequence, there are many factors that influence the financial returns it obtains.
The Directors relates to gas purchases required for the operation of the NTS and the DNs.
consider the following to be the main business drivers: National Grid Gas is allowed to recover certain costs through charges to customers.
The timing of recovery of these costs can vary between financial The prices National Grid Gas charges for use of the NTS and the DNs are Price controls periods leading to an under or over-recovery within any particular financial determined in accordance with regulator-approved price controls.
negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact on the revenues we Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, National Grid Gass operating costs obtain from our operations.
In addition, these arrangements include incentives increase each year as a result of wage increases and inflation in external that permit it to earn additional revenues based on its performance or penalise costs.
In general, its revenues also increase each year, although not it if it does not meet various targets.
The length of these arrangements is necessarily at the same rate, depending on regulatory or contractual significant to National Grid Gas in that they provide stability to its operations arrangements.
As a consequence, its ability to control costs and improve and allow it to plan ahead and invest with confidence that it will obtain financial efficiency is important to National Grid Gass ability to increase operating returns.
These price controls typically cover periods of five years.
Its price controls are linked to retail price inflation.
Safety and National Grid Gass ability to operate safely and reliably is very important to it, Revenues from the NTS and the DNs are weighted towards the end of the Seasonality its employees, its customers, the public and its regulators.
Its financial reliability financial year, as gas demand is typically higher during the winter months.
performance is affected by performance in these areas.
Otherwise, seasonality does not have a significant impact on revenues.
With Efficiency National Grid Gass objective, and that of its regulators, is for it to deliver the exception of commodity costs, operating costs are generally not seasonal.
services as efficiently as possible.
This allows National Grid Gas to limit price Interest rates The costs of financing National Grid Gass operations are affected by changes increases or to reduce prices to its customers and improve its own financial in prevailing interest rates, as some of its debt is at floating rates.
Some of the performance to the benefit of shareholders.
exposure to interest rates is hedged with fixed rate debt and derivative financial Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
The prices Capital investment instruments to maintain a proportion of debt at fixed interest rates.
National Grid Gas charges for transportation services include an allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance with its price controls.
These Objectives and strategy provide incentives for it to enhance the quality and reach of its networks National Grid Gass principal objective is to create value for National Grids shareholders, by helping through capital improvements.
National Grid achieve its goal of being the worlds premier network utility.
Acquisitions and National Grid Gas considers disposals where the Directors believe that the price on offer is better than the long-term return that National Grid Gas can disposals To achieve its principal objective, National Grid Gas is committed to operating its businesses to the obtain itself or where a business does not fit with its long-term strategy.
highest standards of safety, reliability and efficiency and to acting in a responsible way that contributes to society.
The Directors have established operating objectives in the following areas: Responsibility National Grid Gass reputation is important to it.
Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence of its stakeholders and this can only be earned by conducting its business in a responsible manner Safety Safety is paramount.
National Grid Gass most important goals are to ensure that members of the public are not injured as a direct result of its operations and to deliver a working environment where there are zero work-related injuries or illnesses.
These goals also include reducing the risks of transporting gas and improving the health of staff so they are fit for work every day.
Reliability National Grid Gass principal operations are critical to the functioning of the UK economy.
The reliability of gas networks, and the quality of service to customers, are therefore the next highest priorities after safety.
4 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Efficiency By improving efficiency National Grid Gas can constrain the cost of its Value Objective Key performance indicator operations borne by customers and improve returns to shareholders.
It Improve financial Operating cash flows Shareholder value continually seeks improvements in efficiency throughout its businesses.
This performance includes enhancing the performance of staff through their development and Invest for future growth Capital expenditure training.
Adjusted operating profit is equal to operating profit excluding exceptional items and remeasurements.
Responsibility National Grid Gas is committed to operating in a responsible way and we have adopted high ethical and governance standards, we take actions to minimise National Grid Gass overall performance against its KPIs is set out in its annual report and accounts the environmental impact of our operations and to remediate contaminated 2005 06. land, promote inclusion and diversity in our workforce, and invest in the communities in which we operate.
Resources National Grid Gass key strengths and resources include: To achieve these objectives, National Grid Gass strategy is to focus on the ownership and operation the skills and expertise of its people: of large complex networks by: its processes and techniques for managing large complex networks: using operational expertise to outperform benchmarks and regulatory targets: its relationships with customers, regulators and other stakeholders: managing regulatory relationships to benefit customers and shareholders: and the ability of its people to work together to achieve its objectives: using a disciplined approach to investment to maximise returns.
the control and or ownership of the assets used in its networks: and its financial position, together with the committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities available National Grid Gas uses its skills and assets to create value for shareholders through investing for to it.
growth in and improving the efficiency of its existing businesses.
National Grid Gass strategy for developing its people is discussed below.
The principal assets of Key performance indicators businesses included in these regulatory accounting statements are described in more detail in the The Directors measure the achievement of objectives through the use of qualitative assessments and performance section of this Operating and Financial Review on pages 9 to 10 and the financial through the monitoring of quantitative indicators, termed key performance indicators KPIs.
In line position is described on pages 11 to 13. with operating objectives, both financial and non-financial KPIs are used.
Developing National Grid Gass people KPIs are used as the primary measures of whether principal operating objectives have been Development of people is undertaken on a National Grid group-wide basis.
The scale and size of National Grid Gass operations means that many other detailed performance measures are used in addition to the KPIs listed below.
Qualitative assessments are People development forums provide the opportunity for management teams to discuss the used to judge progress against objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
performance and potential of their teams.
This allows for the identification of individual development needs and business skill requirements.
Value Objective Key performance indicator Safety Zero workrelated injuries Employee lost time injury frequency rate A new career development programme was launched in April 2005 for operations engineers to develop their skills as line managers.
In addition, National Grids flagship leadership development Reduce risks from Standards of service for responding to gas programme is to be extended to middle management in 2006.
Further development is under way transporting gas escapes through an emerging leaders programme.
Length of gas distribution mains replaced Zero work-related ill health Sickness absence rate National Grids recruitment processes for apprentices, graduates and university placements in the UK, Reliability Operational reliability Business-specific reliability and service quality continues to build on the previous successes of developing talent from within and addressing the measures decline in the number of graduates in technical engineering subjects.
Efficiency Operate efficiently Adjusted operating profit Employee engagement Achieve real reduction of 35% in DN controllable Following National Grids first group-wide employee opinion survey in 2004, it identified a number of costs by 31 March 2007 areas for improvement.
These included improving opportunities for dialogue across the National Grid Reduce environmental Number of significant direct environmental Responsibility group, developing a better understanding of National Grid group strategy among employees, impact incidents managing change better, improving performance management, demonstrating our values in all that Greenhouse gas emissions per m of revenue we do and continuing to progress inclusion and diversity.
Total amount of fines from environmental prosecutions National Grid has established a core set of three behavioural values that apply across all of its operations: Respect, Integrity and Ownership.
Employ an inclusive and Percentage of female employees diverse workforce Percentage of ethnic minority employees National Grid has also refined its employee briefing processes and publications.
National Grids intranet sites and National Grids UK employee newspaper have been re-launched.
It has also 5 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued introduced a National Grid group-wide publication, National Grid World, to provide employees with a Responsibility broader view of National Grid group activities.
National Grids Framework for Responsible Business defines the principles by which National Grid Gass manages its business and its day-to-day dealings with its customers, employees, shareholders, Inclusion and diversity suppliers and local communities.
It is underpinned by National Grid group-wide policies and position In January 2005, National Grid launched its Inclusion and Diversity programme, setting out how it statements that are also available on National Grids website.
The Directors of National Grid believe intends to develop and operate its business in a way that results in a more inclusive and diverse strong corporate governance is essential to operating responsibly and achieving business goals.
It aims to ensure that all employees, regardless of race, gender, nationality, age, disability, National Grids approach to corporate governance is described in that companys annual report and sexual orientation, religion or background, have the opportunity to develop to their full potential.
National Grid has taken a number of steps to make this vision a reality.
It has established a number of Ethics employee groups, including networks for women and minority employees.
It is hoped these will help National Grid has set out the ethical standards it expects each employee to meet while conducting identify and remove any barriers that exist for these groups of employees.
In particular, National Grid business for the group in its Code of Business Conduct applicable to all its UK employees, including is committed to increasing the number of women in senior management across the National Grid National Grid Gas.
group from the existing 18.3% through a variety of measures including mentoring, development programmes and continued commitment to flexible working.
Allegations of misconduct are investigated and reported to National Grids Business Conduct Committee.
National Grid aims to ensure that reported breaches are thoroughly and promptly Employee development is extremely important to National Grid and it has begun a programme of investigated and, where appropriate, acted upon and any necessary improvements implemented.
The training for all of its managers about the knowledge and behaviour required to manage a diverse National Grid Board Risk & Responsibility Committee receives a twice yearly report on the number workforce such that all employees feel included and able to contribute effectively.
and type of inquiries and allegations.
Safety Environmental management The approach to safety and occupational health is set out in National Grids Group Vision for Safety.
National Grid Gas is committed to a year-by-year improvement in its environmental performance.
This is underpinned by group-wide policies and strategy statements that are available on National National Grids group-wide environmental policy sets out the key areas being addressed, and National Grids website.
Grid Gas has implemented environmental management systems certified to the international standard ISO 14001 to help deliver improvements in these areas.
National Grid Gass objective is to achieve zero work-related injuries, zero work-related ill health and zero injuries to the public.
While this objective is demanding, it is believed achievable.
All of National Grid Gass employees work to systems certified to ISO 14001.
Overall, National Grid Gass aim is to develop a culture in which acting safely becomes second Climate change nature.
National Grid Gas is committed to making a contribution towards minimising climate change and National Grids public position statement, Energy Delivery and Climate Change, sets out how the group proposes to address the issue of greenhouse gas emissions in particular.
Following its Reliability publication, National Grid established a group-wide Climate Change Strategy Group, which has National Grid Gass approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves: established a long-term strategy that maps out how the group will achieve a 60% reduction in investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the operational tools and techniques emissions well in advance of the target date of 2050 set by the UK Government.
necessary to manage its assets and operations to high standards and investing in the renewal of assets: Contaminated land investing in the skills and capabilities of its people to give them the ability to operate its networks National Grid Gas owns and holds within its DN business a portfolio of contaminated land comprising to a high degree of service excellence: and former manufactured gas plants and former gas holder stations.
Sites can sometimes have a complex maintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of its principal objectives, ensuring it is mix of contamination dating back over 100 years.
The main focus of the remediation programme is on proactive about planning to ensure reliability and that it reacts quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
Community investment Efficiency The role of National Grid Gas as a good corporate citizen is one that complements and adds value to National Grid Gas continually reviews its operations to identify opportunities to improve the strategic ambitions and as such must be delivered through a consistent and integrated approach.
operational productivity of its assets and people, and to identify areas in which it can reduce costs or restrict cost increases.
Planning ahead is essential in its approach to maintaining and improving The National Grid groups Community Investment Policy provides a framework for ensuring efficiency.
For example, in November 2005 National Grid decided to establish a multi-function shared investment delivers benefits for its business and the communities involved.
All community investment services organisation for its businesses in the UK, including National Grid Gas, comprising supply by National Grid Gas must develop its business, support its employees, support communities and chain management and significant parts of human resources and finance.
To achieve these benefits, National Grid Gas focuses investment on three key themes to ensure that the impact of the investment is maximised: Skills and Education, Environment and Energy, and Community Development.
6 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Stakeholder engagement About the businesses National Grid Gas has a diverse range of stakeholders including customers, regulators, government Principal activities and local communities.
It adopts an open and constructive approach to dealings with external The business activities of National Grid Gas reported on in these regulatory accounting statements audiences.
comprise: Risk and uncertainties DN businesses Comprise the development, administration, maintenance and operation of As well as the opportunities National Grid Gas has to grow and develop its business, it faces a National Grid Gass four regional DNs and the supply of gas number of risks and uncertainties in attaining objectives.
transportation services in the following four geographic areas: the North West of England: the West Midlands: the East of England: and North The most significant risk factors identified relate to: London.
Each of these four DNs is subject to a separate price control.
changes in laws or regulations: Together, the DNs comprise almost half of Great Britains gas distribution breaches in environmental or health and safety law or regulations: system, consisting of approximately 82,000 mile of distribution pipe.
network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: achievement of business performance objectives: Gas is transported on behalf of approximately 70 active gas shippers reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside National Grid Gass control: from the NTS through DNs to around 11 million consumers.
business development activities: The DN businesses manage the national emergency number 0800 111 movements in interest rates: 999 for National Grid Gass networks, the sold networks and the other restrictions in borrowings and debt arrangements or changes in credit ratings: gas transporters.
During 2005 06 around 2.5 million calls to the national pension scheme funding requirements: emergency number were handled.
changes in tax rates: and Metering business Comprises the provision of regulated gas metering services in Great changes in accounting standards.
Britain, which includes the provision, installation and maintenance of gas metering equipment.
It is subject to price control in respect of the National Grid operates a group-wide risk management process which provides for a consistent provision of domestic metering services approach to the assessment, recording and reporting of key risks in a visible, structured and Services are provided to an asset base of around 20 million domestic, continuous manner.
This process helps to safeguard National Grid Gass assets and is designed to commercial and industrial gas meters.
manage, rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement of business objectives, while also Comprises the reading of consumers gas meters and the provision of recognising that any such process can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Meter reading business meter reads, both to third parties and to owners of gas transportation material misstatement or loss.
This process complies with the Turnbull working party guidance businesses.
It is subject to price control only in respect of the provision of revised October 2005. daily meter reading services.
Commentary on financial risks and risk management is provided in the section on financial position fide-minimis activities Comprise the aggregate of any other businesses or activities undertaken and financial management on pages 11 to 13. by National Grid Gas, which do not form part of its regulated DN businesses, the NTS business, the metering business, the meter reading Other developments business, the LNG storage business, or any other activity undertaken with Other developments during the year that may affect National Grid Gas include a European Union the specific consent of Ofgem, and which are treated as attributable to the Directive concerning measures to safeguard security of natural gas supply which was due for DN businesses, the metering business or the meter reading business.
fide-minimis activities are not subject to price control, but must be carried implementation in May 2006.
This will ensure that member states have in place, and publish, policies on within the terms of the licence.
These terms include restrictions on the and standards on gas security of supply.
In addition, the Gas Regulation on conditions for access to level of activity with respect to the overall level of the regulated gas networks was adopted by the European Union in September 2005 and applies from 1 July 2006.
There are also a number of European Directives and Regulations in development covering many businesses.
issues including harmonisation of access to gas systems and infrastructure development, where the Other activities Comprise other activities for which Ofgem has given specific consent in precise impact on our businesses in the future is currently uncertain.
The Directors expect the impact accordance with standard special condition A36 of the licence, which of these regulations on National Grid Gass businesses to be minimal.
would otherwise be classified as part of the fide-minimis activities and which are treated as attributable to the DN businesses, the metering business or the meter reading business.
They include the provision of common services to other companies in the National Grid group and the provision of specified services to the four distribution networks sold by National Grid Gas on 1 June 2005.
These consents have been given for specific periods of time, but may be extended at the discretion of Ofgem.
7 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued External and regulatory environment Standards of service In Great Britain, gas is piped from the NTS into each of the eight DNs, which in turn distribute gas to Ofgem has established standards of service for DN operations.
Four of the DNs are owned by National Grid Gas and four are independently owned.
overall standards of service, for example answering 90% of all calls to the national gas emergency number within 30 seconds of the call being connected and informing 97% of all Detailed arrangements for the gas industry are provided through the Uniform Network Code, which consumers when they are due to be reconnected after an unplanned interruption: defines the obligations, responsibilities and roles of the industry participants.
connections standards of service that require National Grid Gas to provide connections to consumers to agreed timescales: and National Grid Gas holds a single gas distribution transporter licence, which authorises it to operate its guaranteed standards of service for other transportation services.
Compensation is paid to four DNs, the metering business and the meter reading business.
Each DN has its own separate price customers for any failures to meet these guaranteed standards.
control, which establishes the prices National Grid Gas can charge for the services provided by each network.
Current and future developments Network sales Ofgem established an estimate of the separate regulatory asset value associated with each DNs On 1 June 2005, the planned sales of four of National Grid Gass eight DNs Scotland, Wales and distribution assets by allocating an estimate of National Grid Gass Gas Distribution business West, North of England and South of England, were successfully completed at a price of 5.8 billion, regulatory asset value as at 1 April 2002.
This was done in a way aimed at minimising short-term a considerable premium to the regulatory asset value.
From the cash sale proceeds National Grid regional differentials in transportation charges.
returned 2 billion to its shareholders and repaid around 1.9 billion of debt.
Ofgem has established price caps which apply to the charges National Grid Gas may make for National Grid Gas is working with the sold DNs in their exit from existing transitional agreements.
These agreements came into place prior to completion of the network sales and include the provision of a front office managed service and a system operation service to the sold DNs.
Business drivers The business drivers specific to the businesses covered by these regulatory accounting statements Regulatory price control reviews include: Ofgem has extended the current five-year gas distribution price control for a further year through an extension price control to cover the year ending 31 March 2008.
Discussions have commenced with Business driver Description Ofgem in relation to this extension period.
The next full price control period will now cover the period Price controls The price controls that apply to the DNs take into account Ofgems estimates from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2013. of operating expenditure, capital expenditure, replacement expenditure and allowed rate of return which is currently set at a real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on Business improvements our regulatory asset value.
As at 31 March 2006, the DN regulatory asset Following completion of the Way Ahead restructuring programme, a series of strategic development value is estimated at approximately 5.9 billion.
initiatives has been delivered in support of National Grid Gass aim to be the most efficient UK gas The DN price control formulae specify a maximum allowed revenue for each Factors driving distribution network.
Centralisation of many key processes has enabled National Grid Gas to place revenue DN.
Each formula retains a 65% fixed, 35% variable revenue associated with increased emphasis on safety and efficiency while sharing best practice across the organisation and transportation volume changes, a mains replacement incentive mechanism delivering its office rationalisation programme.
This has resulted in the consolidation of 14 regional and the pass-through of prescribed rates and gas transporter licence fees.
In office locations into three key centres Warwick, Hinckley and Northampton.
any year, revenue can be more or less than is allowed under the price control formula, although it should be set to recover allowed revenue.
Any difference Centralising asset management, job scheduling and dispatch processes has achieved economies of is carried forward and future charges are adjusted accordingly scale while maintaining local alignment of the operational workforce to satisfy consumer requirements.
The majority of National Grid Gass domestic meters are covered by long-term contracts with gas suppliers.
These contracts provide gas suppliers with the Systems operation for the DNs has been integrated into the business during the year.
New flexibility to replace our meters whilst reducing the risk of asset stranding.
connections work associated with domestic premises has also been integrated, which has resulted in Replacement Replacement expenditure maintains the safety of the DNs, by the replacement improved efficiency, as well as meeting the requirements of customers on a more consistent basis.
of older gas pipes with modern pipes.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected expenditure replacement expenditure as recoverable during the year and 50% as recoverable over future years.
Each DN is subject to its own mains replacement incentive mechanism and retains 33% of any outperformance against Ofgems annual cost targets as additional return or, alternatively, bears 50% of any overspend if it underperforms.
To ensure supply security and to meet growing customer demand.
Central coCapital expenditure ordination ensures capital investment is effective and efficient.
8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Environmental management Performance during the year The number of significant environmental incidents in 2005 06 arising directly from operations was In accordance with the requirements of the licence, the performance of the businesses included within one, compared with seven in the previous year.
these regulatory accounting statements is considered in aggregate.
There were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from these incidents.
General operating performance Safety performance Contaminated land Against the significant safety improvements seen over the past three years, it is reported with great National Grid Gas is responsible for a number of contaminated sites, which are managed on its behalf sadness that there were two fatalities directly associated with National Grid Gass DN operations by SecondSite Properties, a fellow subsidiary undertaking of National Grid.
Together with the Environment Agency, National Grid Gas has sought judicial review to clarify the In October 2005, an employee died whilst working in the London DN.
There is an investigation into the legal position with regard to the remediation of a site in Bawtry, Yorkshire, following a decision by the incident and National Grid Gas is working closely with the Health and Safety Executive.
Procedures Environment Agency that National Grid Gas plc is an appropriate party to be involved in the clean up and equipment for use while working in gaseous environments have been reviewed and an action of the land.
The site has a long and complex history of ownership.
On 17 May 2006, the High Court plan has been implemented under the management of a Group Director.
ruled in the Environment Agencys favour.
National Grid Gas has appealed this decision, which National Grid Gas believes is incorrect in law.
The appeal is not expected to be heard before early There has also been one public fatality resulting directly from DN operations: an elderly person died 2007. after being hit by a National Grid Gas vehicle.
Climate change Over the past 12 months National Grid Gas has continued to see an encouraging improvement in its The largest sources of direct emissions by National Grid Gas continue to be methane leakage and safety performance.
Within the businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements, 28 of venting from the DNs.
During 2005 06, National Grid Gass overall emissions per million of revenue employees received injuries that resulted in them taking time off work during 2005 06 compared with amounted to some 1,529 tonnes CO2 equivalent compared with 1,829 tonnes for the previous year.
Inclusion and diversity The lost time injury frequency rate provides a more accurate indicator of year-on-year performance At 31 March 2006, 19.4% of National Grid Gass employees were females and 4.5% were from ethnic than an absolute measure because it takes into account changing employee numbers.
The number of minority groups compared with 15.7% and 3.3% at 31 March 2005. employee lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked in 2005 06 fell to 0.17, a 54% improvement when compared with the previous year.
Community investment The London Benchmarking Group model has been adopted by National Grid to provide a framework There has also been a significant reduction in the number of contractor lost time injuries LTIs, falling for measuring and reporting of community contributions.
Processes are now in place so that from 57 in 2004 05 to 41 in 2005 06, a 28% decrease.
community spend across the National Grid group can be captured and categorised according to the model, and spend against our agreed themes can be reported as described on page 6.
National Grid Gas has reinforced existing safety procedures in DN operations by focusing on areas of activity where there is most risk of serious injuries.
National Grid Gas believes these procedures will During 2005 06, National Grid Gas has invested some 421,000 in support of community initiatives help drive continual improvements in key areas.
National Grid Gas has continued to focus on employees health by promoting physical well-being, and highlighting mental health issues such as stress.
National Grid Gas has also published a stress management standard and implemented a drugs and alcohol policy.
Around 2.2% of available work days were lost due to sickness absence compared with 2.8% for the previous year.
Responsibility This year has again seen external endorsement of the National Grid groups responsible business approach.
National Grid continues to feature in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and FTSE4Good indices.
National Grid is one of only two multi-utilities listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, confirming that our approach to responsible business is indeed world class.
In May 2006, National Grid was placed equal fourth in Business in the Communitys fourth Corporate Responsibility Index, a leading UK benchmark of responsible business, the only company to be ranked in the top five for three years running.
9 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Remeasurements arise on financial instruments as these are recorded in the balance sheet at their Business operating performance fair values.
Financial remeasurements relate to the changes in the fair values of derivative financial Actual gas consumption rose to 347 TWh in 2005 06, compared with 344 TWh in 2004 05 due to the instruments resulting principally from changes in interest rates.
However, underlying levels of gas demand, excluding the effects of weather, fell from 357 TWh in 2004 05 to 346 TWh in 2005 06, due to the increasing levels of gas The principal movements between 2004 05 and 2005 06 can be summarised as follows: supply prices during 2005 06 affecting usage.
The reduction was experienced across all types of consumers, but was particularly noticeable for larger users.
Revenue Operating costs Operating profit m m m Progress against operating performance objectives during the year included the following notable 2004 05 results 1,423 969 454 items: Add back 2004 05 exceptional items - 106 106 2004 05 adjusted results 1,423 863 560 Objective Performance Weather 29- 29 Safety As described above there was one employee fatality during 2005 06.
Transportation price increases 33 - 33 Lost time injuries fell from 61 in 2004 05 to 28 in 2005 06, a 54% decrease.
Underlying transportation volumes 17 - 17 The lost time injury frequency rate fell from 0.37 to 0.17.
Gas commodity costs - 17 17 The targets on safety-related standards were again exceeded more than Other 29 34 5 97% of uncontrolled gas escapes where the gas leak cannot be controlled 2005 06 adjusted results 1,497 914 583 by turning the gas supply off at the meter were attended within one hour, and 2005 06 exceptional items - 27 27 more than 98% of controlled gas escapes where the gas leak can be 2005 06 results 1,497 941 556 controlled at the meter were attended within two hours.
In excess of 1,710 km of gas pipes were decommissioned in 2005 06, in line Revenues increased by 74 million in 2005 06 compared with 2004 05. with the target of 1,724 km, compared with 1,458 km in 2004 05.
Over the year all connections standards of service were achieved along with Reliability There was a 45 million increase in revenue recovered under the DN transportation price control all other standards of service set by Ofgem that relate to gas transportation formula.
The weather in 2005 06 was colder than 2004 05, contributing 29 million of the increase, services.
and an average price rise of 4.6% was implemented on 1 October 2005 resulting in a further 33 Efficiency Performance under the current DN exit incentive scheme during 2005 06 and million increase.
These were partly offset by a 17 million reduction in underlying volumes of gas the incentive mechanism for mains replacement was broadly neutral.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, National Grid Gas made around 50,000 new connections to its networks.
Other revenues increased by 29 million in 2005 06 compared with 2004 05, primarily because of new revenues from the post sale provision of services to the four DNs sold on 1 June 2005, partly offset by a fall in metering revenues reflecting reducing market share.
Financial performance National Grid Gas reports its financial results and position in accordance with International Financial Total operating costs, excluding exceptional items, increased by 51 million in 2005 06 compared with Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted in the European Union.
A summary of the effects of 2004 05, including 17 million due to the effects of higher gas commodity prices.
implementing IFRS and the principal differences from results for the year ended 31 March 2005 previously reported under UK GAAP is on page 14.
Adjusted operating profit was 23 million higher in 2005 06 than 2004 05, an increase of 4%.
Use of adjusted profit measures Exceptional charges of 27 million in 2005 06 and 106 million in 2004 05 predominantly related to National Grid Gas separately discloses items of income and expenditure that are material, either by restructuring costs under the Way Ahead programme.
their nature or their size, and are relevant to an understanding of National Grid Gass financial performance.
These include exceptional income or charges that do not relate to the underlying Operating profit was 102 million higher in 2005 06 than 2004 05, reflecting the movements in financial performance of National Grid Gas and remeasurement gains or losses arising from changes revenues, operating costs and exceptional items explained above.
in the value of derivative financial instruments, recorded at fair value in the balance sheet.
In considering the financial performance of National Grid Gass businesses, business performance or adjusted profit measures are used.
References to adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before taxation and adjusted earnings are stated before exceptional items and mark-to-market remeasurements of financial instruments.
The Directors believe that the use of these adjusted measures best illustrates the underlying business performance of National Grid Gas.
Excluding exceptional items and mark-to-market remeasurements of derivative financial instruments removes their distorting impact in order to provide a clearer comparison from year to year.
10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Capital expenditure Financial position and financial management Gross capital investment in the DN and metering businesses was 509 million in 2005 06 compared Going concern with 449 million in 2004 05.
Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that National Grid Gas has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going Years ended 31 March concern basis in preparing these regulatory accounting statements.
2006 2005 m m DN reinforcement and extension 149 127 Capital structure DN replacement expenditure 295 255 Balance sheet The balance sheet at 31 March 2006 can be summarised as follows: Metering 65 67 Capital investment 449 509 Assets Liabilities Net assets m m m DN reinforcement and extension expenditure increased from 127 million in 2004 05 to 149 million in Property, plant and equipment and non-current intangible 2005 06 because of a higher level of investment in the reinforcement of high pressure pipelines, such assets 5,756- 5,756 projects being dependent on forecasts of future demand, as well as higher expenditure on new Other non-current assets and liabilities 4,025 863 3,162 connections and the replacement of commercial vehicles.
Current assets and liabilities 345 525 180 Deferred tax - 1,122 1,122 DN replacement expenditure increased from 255 million in 2004 05 to 295 million in 2005 06 in line Total before net debt 10,126 2,510 7,616 with the planned increase in the long-term iron mains replacement programme agreed with the HSE.
Total as at 31 March 2005 7,014 4,881 2,133 Annual capital expenditure is expected to remain at approximately 0.5 billion per year, in line with the year ended 31 March 2006, over the medium term.
This reflects expenditure to maintain the safety of The increase in net assets from 2,133 million at 31 March 2005 to 5,273 million at 31 March 2006 the DNs.
resulted from the profit for the year of 350 million, changes in allocation of funding between National Grid Gass regulatory businesses of 3,029 million and other changes in equity of 3 million, partially Legal and related matters offset by net expenses recognised directly in equity of 12 million, attributed dividends paid of 203 In June 2005, Ofgem announced that certain aspects of the domestic gas metering business were to million and the effect of the implementation of IAS 39 of 27 million.
be investigated by it under the Competition Act 1998.
Information requested as part of this investigation was provided to Ofgem in September 2005.
Net debt and gearing Net debt decreased by 0.1 billion from 2.4 billion at 31 March 2005 to 2.3 billion at 31 March 2006, On 17 May 2006, Ofgem issued a statement of objections detailing why it believes National Grids primarily as a result of debt repayments following the disposals of the four regional gas networks for conduct is in breach of the Competition Act.
We shall be responding to the statement of objections in 5.8 billion, partly offset by an increase of 0.1 billion relating to the adoption of IAS 39. due course.
The composition of net debt at 31 March 2006 is shown in note 26 to the regulatory accounting statements.
Gearing at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005, calculated as net debt at that date expressed as a percentage of net debt plus net assets shown in the balance sheet, amounted to 31% and 53% respectively.
By comparison, the gearing ratio, adjusted for the inclusion of regulated businesses at their estimated regulatory asset values adjusted gearing ratio, amounted to 25% at 31 March 2006 compared with 39% 31 March 2005.
National Grid Gas believes this adjusted ratio is a more relevant measure of gearing than one based on book values alone, because the book values do not reflect the economic value of the regulated business assets.
A reconciliation of the adjustments necessary to calculate adjusted net assets is shown in the following table: 11 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued managed in a non-speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or products 2006 2005 are matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
m m Net assets per balance sheet 5,273 2,133 The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by policy guidelines set by the Board of Adjustment for regulatory asset values 2,300 2,200 National Grid.
Derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of the Deferred tax 690 660 business operational requirements and the policy regarding their use is explained below.
Adjusted net assets 6,883 3,673 National Grid Gas had borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2006 amounting to 3,712 million 31 March 2005: 5,276 million of which 2,605 million 2005: 2,391 million has been attributed to the Shareholders equity businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements.
The table in note 21 shows the Shareholders equity rose from 2,133 million at 31 March 2005 to 5,273 million at 31 March 2006. expected maturity of these attributed borrowings.
This increased for the same reasons that net assets increased.
National Grid Gas has in place appropriate committed facilities, and believes that the maturing Liquidity and treasury management amounts in respect of its contractual obligations as shown in Commitments and Contingencies can be Cash flow met from these facilities, operating cash flows and other refinancings that it reasonably expects to be Cash flows from National Grid Gass operations are largely stable over a period of years, but they do able to secure in the future.
National Grid Gass financial position enables it to borrow on the depend on the timing of customer payments.
National Grid Gass DN operations are subject to multiwholesale capital and money markets and most of its borrowings are through public bonds and year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
This results in essentially stable cash flows.
However, weather conditions can affect cash flows in those businesses, with abnormally mild or cold weather driving volumes down or up respectively.
National Grid Gas places surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the form of short-term fixed deposits that are invested with approved banks and counterparties.
Details relating to National Grid Over time, National Grid Gas expects to fund investment expenditure from its operating cash flows, Gass cash, short-term investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2006 are shown in note 17 through price control agreements with Ofgem.
to the regulatory accounting statements.
Cash flow forecasting National Grid Gas plc has a credit rating of A2 A A provided by Moodys, S&P and Fitch respectively.
Both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts are produced frequently to assist in identifying the liquidity requirements of National Grid Gas.
These forecasts are supplemented by a financial In connection with the proposed acquisition of KeySpan by National Grid, the outlook for the ratings of headroom position, details of which are supplied to the Finance Committee of the National Grid Board National Grid Gas has been moved to Creditwatch with negative implications by S&P.
Moodys have regularly to demonstrate funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
National Grid Gas also placed the ratings of National Grid Gas plc on negative outlook.
Fitch have placed the ratings of maintains a minimum level of committed facilities in support of that objective.
National Grid Gas on rating watch negative.
Credit facilities and unutilised Commercial Paper and Medium Term Note Programmes It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around National Grid Gas plc that it uses reasonable National Grid Gas has both committed and uncommitted facilities that are available for general endeavours to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
At these ratings, it should have good corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2006, National Grid Gas plc had a US$2.5 billion US Commercial access to the capital and money markets for future funding when necessary.
Paper Programme unutilised and a US$1.25 billion Euro Commercial Paper Programme unutilised : and National Grid Gas plc and National Grid Gas Holdings plc had a joint Euro Medium Term Note The main risks arising from National Grid Gass financing activities are set out below.
The Board of Programme of 10 billion 6.6 billion unissued.
National Grid and the Finance Committee of that Board review and agree policies for managing each risk and they are summarised below.
At 31 March 2006, National Grid Gas had 840 million of long term committed facilities undrawn, 25 million of short-term 364 day committed facilities undrawn and 0.9 billion of uncommitted Refinancing risk management borrowing facilities undrawn.
The Board of National Grid controls refinancing risk mainly by limiting the amount of financing obligations both principal and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
This policy restricts Treasury policy National Grid Gas from having an excessively large amount of debt to refinance in a given time-frame.
The funding and treasury risk management of National Grid Gas is carried out on its behalf by a During the year, a mixture of short-term and long-term debt was issued.
central department operating under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of National Grid.
The Finance Committee, a committee of the Board of National Grid, is responsible for regular review Interest rate risk management and monitoring of treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, the authority for which The interest rate exposure of National Grid Gas arising from its borrowings and deposits is managed may be delegated.
The National Grid group has a Treasury function that raises all the funding for the by the use of fixed and floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
National Grid group and manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
National Grid Gass interest rate risk management policy is to seek to minimise total financing costs being interest costs and changes in the market value of debt subject to constraints so that, even with There is a separate financing programme for National Grid Gas.
large movements in interest rates, neither the interest cost nor the total financing cost can exceed pre-set limits.
The Finance Committees of both National Grid and of National Grid Gas approve all funding programmes.
The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are 12 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by comparing The valuation techniques described above for interest rate swaps and currency swaps are a standard the actual total financing costs of its debt with those of a passively-managed benchmark portfolio.
These techniques do not take account of the credit quality of either party but this is not considered to be a significant factor unless there is a material deterioration in the credit quality of either party.
Foreign exchange risk management National Grid Gas has a policy of hedging certain contractually committed foreign exchange transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
It covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions In relation to swaptions, National Grid Gas only uses swaptions for hedging purposes with a European expected to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of transactions six to twelve style exercise.
As a consequence, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is considered to months in advance.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies be sufficiently accurate for the purpose of providing fair value information in relation to these types of swaptions.
More sophisticated valuation models exist but National Grid Gas does not believe it is and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
necessary to employ these models, given the extent of its activities in this area.
The currency and average interest rate compositions of National Grid Gass financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 17 to the accounts.
For debt and derivative instruments held, National Grid Gas utilises a sensitivity analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of such instruments.
Counterparty risk management Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments.
The Finance Committee of National Grid has agreed a policy for managing such risk, Interest rate sensitivity which is controlled through credit limits, approvals and monitoring procedures.
Where multiple Details of the sensitivity of National Grid Gass income statement and equity to changes in UK interest transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a master netting arrangement can be put in rates are set out in note 17.
Under the assumptions set out in note 17, a 0.10% change in UK interest rates would affect the income statement by 8 million, but would have no effect on equity.
place to reduce National Grid Gass exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
At the present time National Grid Gas uses standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA agreement with a Commodity contracts counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives.
Commodity derivatives In the normal course of the DN business, National Grid Gas is party to commodity derivatives.
These Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other than trading have included gas futures, gas options and gas forwards that are used to manage commodity prices As part of its business operations, National Grid Gas is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in associated with its gas delivery operations.
interest rates and exchange rates.
National Grid Gas uses financial instruments derivatives to manage exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in reducing risk.
National Grid Gass policy These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an integral part of National Grid Gass is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions can, to varying degrees, carry financial risk management policy.
At the core of this policy is a condition that National Grid Gas will both counterparty and market risk.
engage in activities at risk only to the extent that those activities fall within commodities and financial markets to which it has a physical market exposure in terms and volumes consistent with its core National Grid Gas enters into interest rate swaps to manage the composition of floating and fixed rate business.
National Grid Gas does not issue or intend to hold derivative instruments for trading debt and so hedge the exposure of borrowings to interest rate movements.
In addition, National Grid purposes, and holds such instruments consistent with its various licence and regulatory obligations.
Gas enters into bought and written option contracts on interest rate swaps.
These contracts are known as swaptions.
Commitments and contingencies National Grid Gass commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March and in respect of the National Grid Gas also enters into foreign currency swaps to manage the currency composition of businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements are summarised in the table below: borrowings and so hedge the exposure to exchange rate movements.
Certain agreements are 2006 2005 m m combined foreign currency and interest rate swap transactions.
Such agreements are known as cross Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided for 213 12 currency swaps.
Total operating lease commitments 80 50 National Grid Gas enters into forward rate agreements to hedge interest rate risk on short-term debt and money market investments.
Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an interest rate that Retirement arrangements is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of specified maturity, starting at a future specified date.
The substantial majority of National Grid Gass employees are members of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, formerly named the Lattice Group Pension Scheme the Scheme.
More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in note 17 to the regulatory accounting statements.
The Scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
Valuation and sensitivity analysis National Grid Gas calculates the fair value of debt and derivative instruments by discounting all future An actuarial valuation of the Scheme is being carried out as at 31 March 2006 and has not yet been cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date.
The market yield curve for each completed.
currency is obtained from external sources for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case of instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to calculate The last completed full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was as at 31 March 2003.
that the pre-tax deficit was 879 million 615 million net of tax in the defined benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
An interim annual assessment of the 13 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Scheme was conducted at 31 March 2005.
This assessment showed that the deficit has decreased in Accounting policies the defined benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
Basis of accounting The regulatory accounting statements present the results for the years ended 31 March 2006 and It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the 2003 actuarial valuation will need to 2005 and the financial position as at 31 March 2006 and 2005 of the regulatory businesses therein.
be provided to the Scheme until the outcome of the actuarial valuation at 31 March 2007 is known.
At They have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance with International this point, National Grid will pay the gross amount of any deficit up to a maximum amount of 520 Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
million 364 million net of tax into the scheme.
National Grid Gass share of these payments is 468m 328m net of tax.
Until the 31 March 2007 actuarial valuation has been completed, National Adoption of IFRS Grid has arranged for banks to provide the trustees of the Scheme with letters of credit.
The main With effect from 1 April 2005, the regulatory accounting statements are presented in accordance with conditions under which these letters of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the IFRS.
interests of the Scheme, such as National Grid Gas becoming insolvent or National Grid failing to make agreed payments into the fund.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of the Scheme The principal differences to National Grid Gass results and financial position reported under IFRS are currently being made at a rate of 23.7% of pensionable payroll.
compared to UK GAAP are as follows: Details of material litigation to which National Grid Gas was a party at 31 March Replacement Replacement expenditure, primarily relating to DNs, was expensed under 2006 UK GAAP but is capitalised under IFRS expenditure National Grid Gas was not party to litigation that was considered to be material at 31 March 2006.
Intangible assets Computer software assets are included within tangible fixed assets under UK GAAP, but are disclosed as other intangible assets under IFRS Related party transactions Deferred tax under UK GAAP was recorded based on timing differences.
National Grid Gas provides services to and receives services from related parties.
In the year ended Deferred taxation Under IFRS deferred tax is recorded based on temporary differences, in 31 March 2006, the businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements charged 23 million and received charges of 165 million from National Grid Gass related parties other than most cases being the difference between an asset or liabilities carrying Directors, compared with 25 million and 172 million respectively in 2004 05. value in the balance sheet and its associated tax basis.
Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 27 to the regulatory Summary of the impact of adoption of IFRS on the businesses reported on in these regulatory accounting statements.
accounting statements The impact of the adoption of IFRS on net assets at 31 March 2005 can be summarised as follows: 31 March 2005 m Net assets under UK GAAP 644 Replacement expenditure 1,516 Deferred taxation 27 Net assets reported under IFRS 2,133 The impact of the adoption of IFRS on the profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 can be summarised as follows: 2005 m Profit for the year under UK GAAP 84 Replacement expenditure 125 Deferred taxation 5 Profit for the year reported under IFRS 204 Amounts shown above are net of any related deferred tax on the underlying IFRS adjustment.
14 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Accounting for financial instruments National Grid Gass critical accounting policies and accounting treatments are considered to be: On 1 April 2005, National Grid Gas implemented new accounting policies for financial instruments on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
As a consequence, derivative financial instruments are recorded Estimated asset The reported amounts for amortisation of intangible fixed assets and on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in those values recorded in the income statement or depreciation of property, plant and equipment can be materially affected by economic lives in equity.
The new accounting policies are described on pages 27 and 28. the judgments exercised in determining their estimated economic lives.
Intangible asset amortisation and depreciation of property, plant and The impact of the adoption was to increase net debt by 118 million from 2,384 million to 2,502 equipment amounted to 11 million and 286 million respectively in 2005 06 million, and to reduce net assets by 27 million as described in note 1 to the regulatory accounting and 10 million and 285 million respectively in 2004 05. statements.
The carrying value of assets recorded in the consolidated balance sheets Carrying value of could be materially reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being assets and potential As permitted by IFRS 1, National Grid Gas adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with no restatement of for impairment required.
Total assets at 31 March 2006 were 10,461 million, including comparatives, and so the balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and the income statement for the year then 5,749 million of property, plant and equipment, 7 million of other ended have not been restated for these changes in accounting policies.
intangible assets and 4,023 million owed by National Grid Gass immediate parent undertaking.
Choices made in adopting IFRS National Grid Gas was required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS.
The principal Impairment reviews are carried out either when a change in circumstance is choices available and the choices adopted which are relevant to these regulatory accounting identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review statements were as follows: involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the value-in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying value in the Option Choices available Choices adopted balance sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be Date of transition 1 April 2003 1 April 2004 generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an appropriate to IFRS 1 April 2004 discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
Adopt IAS 39 retrospectively Adopt IAS 39 on 1 April 2005 Financial Revenue accruals Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to instruments Adopt IAS 39 on 1 April 2004 customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Adopt IAS 39 on 1 April 2005 Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this Carrying value of Depreciated cost adjusted for IFRS Depreciated cost adjusted for IFRS period would have an impact on the reported results of National Grid Gas.
changes changes in most cases assets at date of transition Estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 92 million at 31 March 2006 Fair value at date of transition compared with 58 million at 31 March 2005.
Recognise all active grants Recognise all active grants Share-based Assets and liabilities Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial investments and derivative payments retrospectively retrospectively already adopted under financial instruments, are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value carried at fair value UK GAAP with FRS 20 Recognise only grants since 7 rather than historical cost.
November 2002 The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are Critical accounting policies those of derivative financial instruments where market prices exist.
Other The application of accounting principles requires National Grid Gas to make estimates, judgments derivative financial instruments are valued using financial models, which and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses include judgments on, in particular, future movements in exchange and and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an ongoing basis, estimates interest rates as well as equity prices.
are evaluated using historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods that National Hedge accounting National Grid Gas uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain Grid Gas considers reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the rates or other factors that could affect either the value of National Grid Gass period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
assets or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
Certain of National Grid Gass accounting policies have been identified as critical accounting policies, Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be as these policies involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion accounted for using hedge accounting where National Grid Gas meet the of critical accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing requirements.
If accounting policies set out in these regulatory accounting statements.
a hedge does not meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded in the income statement immediately instead of being recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense or by being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
Exceptional items Exceptional items, in particular restructuring costs, are items of income or 15 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06 Operating and Financial Review Continued Accounting developments expense which are identified as being material or one-off in nature that need to be separately identified in the income statement.
Restructuring costs New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2005 06 principally comprise severance or other costs necessary to complete a In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has complied with major programme of restructuring.
International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and interpretations applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 April 2005.
Judgement is required in deciding the classification of items as exceptional.
Provisions Provision is made for liabilities that are uncertain in estimates.
These Capital resource Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires new include provisions for the cost of environmental restoration and remediation, disclosures disclosures about entities management of their capital resources and and restructuring.
Pensions, costs, Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains and Losses, Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash flows relating Group Plans and Disclosures removes the requirement for National Grid assets and liabilities to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of Gas to recognise a proportionate share of the actuarial gains and losses discounting is material.
The total costs and timing of cash flows relating to and assets and liabilities of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
environmental liabilities are based on management estimates supported by Cash flow hedges Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and the use of external consultants.
Measurement: Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast At 31 March 2006, recorded provisions totalled 74 million 2005: 105 intragroup transaction to qualify as a hedged item in consolidated financial million, including 44 million 2005: 41 million in respect of environmental statements, provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other liabilities.
than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and Tax estimates National Grid Gass tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation Financial instrument IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures replaces the disclosure requires National Grid Gas to take into account anticipated decisions of tax requirements in IAS 32 and locates in one place all disclosures relating to disclosures authorities and estimate National Grid Gass ability to utilise tax benefits financial instruments.
through future earnings and tax planning.
National Grid Gass estimates and assumptions may differ from future events.
The new requirements incorporate many of IAS 32s disclosures as well as additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the risks arising from In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on National Grid Gass results financial instruments.
and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Forthcoming changes in IFRS Asset economic lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average The following accounting standards and interpretations have not yet been adopted, but are expected would reduce the annual depreciation charge on property, plant and to be adopted by National Grid Gas in future periods.
Implementation of the following interpretations is equipment by 9 million and our annual amortisation charge on intangible not expected to have a material impact on National Grid Gass results, assets or liabilities.
Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2006 would International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 4 Leases result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease provides guidance year by approximately 6 million net of tax.
on determining whether arrangements which convey the right to use an Assets carried at fair A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an asset in return for a series of payments should be accounted for in increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments accordance IAS 17 Leases.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 addresses the issue of whether IFRS 2 Share Share-based Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the payments Based Payment applies to transactions in which the entity cannot identify year ended 31 March 2006 had not achieved hedge accounting then the specifically some or all of the goods or services received.
profit for the year would have been 8 million lower than that reported net of Embedded derivatives IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives prohibits reassessment tax and net assets would have been 1 million higher.
of the treatment of embedded derivatives subsequent to initial recognition A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated in respect of unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly Provisions modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, provisions for liabilities would result in an increase or decrease in net assets of approximately 7 million.
in which case reassessment is required 16 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06
