Passionate about delivering success in Kauther Operating review continued Operations at Kauther gas plant in Oman Passionate about delivering success in Kauther In July 2005, Petrofac secured a contract freight each of the replacement plates from managed by Petroleum Development Germany to Delhi and Mumbai.
This involved Oman PDO on behalf of the Government arranging 17 separate cargo ights for 29 of Oman, to build a new gas plant in the individual plates weighing a total of 488 Kauther eld in north Oman.
It was a tonnes a massive series of air lifts.
project that brought with it significant challenges, the largest of which was the The overall time saving was four weeks, tough 107 week schedule.
To transform but perhaps more importantly it showed a barren desert into a fully functioning our customer the lengths that Petrofac was gas plant in such a short space of time prepared to go to in meeting its objectives.
demands a special combination of skills, As Brian explains, This kind of decision and a relentless desire to succeed.
inspires people to overcome what might otherwise be thought of as insurmountable From the outset, the Petrofac team had to obstacles and provides the customer with be alert to developments that would impact tremendous confidence in our commitment.
on time, and take the correct decisions, fast.
Project Director, Brian Dinsmore, has been Throughout the Kauther project, Petrofac working on the front line of this project, has built a strong relationship with its leading the team from the outset.
It is a relationship founded on mutual trust and understanding.
Although At the heart of our business is this idea of the main challenge has been to meet a tough delivery delivering hydrocarbon facilities schedule, the Petrofac team has never lost to our customers on time.
So we are driven sight of the bigger picture: the importance by dates and we have to nd ways to of long-term customer relationships.
overcome problems that may jeopardise these, explained Brian.
Whilst working on the Kauther project, the Petrofac team has also formed a strong bond.
One example of this focus involved the We have a very united project team.
We all fabrication of critical high pressure vessels.
share a common goal and there is a genuine We have a number of vessels with high wall desire to deliver results, to a satisfied customer thicknesses which were being fabricated in and a satisfied Petrofac Board.
The German steel mill manufacturing we walked onto a barren desert site, with not the plates was a supplier to the vessel a living thing for miles around.
In September fabricators and as such had no direct this year, we are aiming to deliver a fully contract with us.
However, the plates for operational gas plant with potential for five major vessels failed tests and had 17 million standard cubic feet per day mmscfd to be re-formed or repaired, potentially dry gas and approximately 85,000 barrels per delaying delivery of the project.
day bpd of stabilised condensate produced for the Omani economy.
Rather than standing by and letting the schedule slip, the team seized the initiative.
To achieve this, the Petrofac team remains We first got to the root of the problems, 100% dedicated and committed to the task, negotiating technical solutions with the no matter how difficult it becomes.
This, in parties involved, and then decided to air essence, is a core Petrofac value.
18 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Strasshof Development FEED, Austria Results Engineering & Construction revenue In late 2006, the division was awarded The divisions strong operational performance US$ millions a US$5 million contract by OMV Austria has increased revenue by 26.0% to 2006 1,081.3 Exploration & Production GmbH OMV US$1,081.3 million 2005: US$858.2 million 2005 858.2 Austria, to carry out two parallel FEED studies and net profit by 73.2% to US$95.4 million 2004 473.5 for the development of the Strasshof gas eld 2005: US$55.1 million, representing a net near Vienna, Austria.
The project is due for margin of 8.8% 2005: 6.4%.
The majority of completion in early 2007 and represents the revenue in 2006 came from further progress Engineering & Construction net margin first time that Petrofac has carried out FEED on contract awards secured in 2005, in % 2006 8.8 work on behalf of OMV Austria.
particular the KOC facilities upgrade project 2005 6.4 and the Harweel and Kauther projects in 2004 7.0 Karachaganak 4th train, Kazakhstan Oman.
The significant growth in net profit and In January 2007, the division announced net margin was driven by the timing of profit the award of the engineering, procurement, recognition profits are typically not recognised construction management and commissioning in the early stages of lump-sum contracts and, Engineering & Construction backlog support of the Karachaganak fourth train.
The therefore, profits lag revenue recognition on US$ millions 2006 2,228 project, scheduled for completion in mid 2009, lump-sum EPC contracts and increased 2005 2,121 will be executed on a part lump-sum and part profitability through the divisions ongoing 2004 739 reimbursable basis.
In 2006, the main divisional profit drivers were the El Gassi eld, Algeria Kashagan engineering and procurement In February 2007, the division was awarded contract, the KOC facilities upgrade and a US$16 million contract by SonaHess, Kauther gas plant projects.
a joint venture of Sonatrach and Amerada Hess, to engineer, procure and manage Engineering & Construction increased its 1 the construction and commissioning of number of employees from approximately new facilities on an existing production site 2,400 at 31 December 2005 to 2,700 at at the El Gassi eld in Algeria.
Much of the increase was follows on from other recent work in Algeria in the divisions operating centres in the Middle and consolidates the groups position in the East and India.
The group is currently building North African market.
a new ofce tower in Sharjah, UAE, which will be able to accommodate approximately 1,800 employees and is establishing a new ofce in Chennai which expects to have around 200 employees by the end of 2007.
The divisions backlog increased to US$2,228 million at 31 December 2006 31 December 2005: US$2,121 million principally due to the Hasdrubal and Salam gas plant awards towards the end of the year.
1 In the operating and financial review, employee numbers include agency and contract staff but exclude employees of joint ventures.
19 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Operations Services Operating awarded the division a concept and optional During the year, the facilities management FEED study for the Claymore platform review and training businesses continued to perform compression upgrade project and in February continued strongly in a buoyant oil & gas market and 2007, following the findings of the conceptual secured a number of significant contract wins, study, Talisman awarded the division the renewals and extensions.
The additional facilities represent a significant undertaking in the future of the The European facilities management business Claymore production platform.
In September continues to be the largest contributor to 2006, the division completed, safely and a the division and achieved strong growth month ahead of schedule, the tie-back from during the year.
During 2006, Petrofac the Venture Production-owned Goosander Facilities Management Europe secured a eld to the Kittiwake installation, through a further 12-month renewal with Maersk Oil for subsea ow-line providing production, gas the Gryphon, Janice and Global Producer III lift and water injection facilities.
assets and an extension of the contract with Sea Production for the Northern Producer, Internationally, the facilities management a oating production installation located on business continues to perform in line with the Galley eld, operated by Talisman Energy.
expectations, supporting national oil companies and their subsidiaries, directly and in consortia, Petrofac Facilities Management Europe in Kuwait, Sudan and Iran and working with extended its range of service operator Marathon in Equatorial Guinea.
contracts in November 2006 by taking on duty holder responsibility from BHP Billiton for The divisions most significant contract win the Irish Sea Pioneer, a mobile, self-elevating during the year was a major service operator operations support vessel in the Liverpool contract with Dubai Petroleum Establishment, Bay area of the Irish Sea.
Petrofac was wholly owned by the Government of Dubai, for also awarded a small life-of-eld duty holder the provision of well and facilities management contract by Helix Energy Solutions for a services to Dubais offshore oil & gas assets.
normally unmanned installation on the Camelot The transition process from the existing eld.
New operations support contracts, as operator commenced in the second half of referred to in the 2005 annual report, were 2006 and the group will take full responsibility signed during the year with CNR International for these operations in April 2007.
of this major contract was the result of significant investment over a number of years A key operational highlight in 2006 was the in our international business development performance of Petrofac Browneld, which activities and represents a material increase in provides maintenance and modications scale for the international Operations Services engineering services, primarily to the UK business.
The contract covers four offshore Continental Shelf UKCS market.
This oilelds, with approximately 70 platforms, business has achieved exceptional growth currently run by around 1,100 personnel.
since inception in 2004 and now employs Some 600 staff will be employed by Petrofac over 600 staff.
Petrofac Browneld has from April 2007, the remainder being contractors.
projects underway for a variety of customers including Lundin Petroleum, Marathon, Venture In January 2007, the division extended Production and Talisman Energy.
In September its capabilities with the acquisition of a 2006, Lundin Petroleum awarded Petrofac majority interest in SPD Group Limited Browneld a two-year contract extension to SPD, a specialist provider of well operations provide engineering support and construction services.
Based in Dubai and Aberdeen, services to both the Heather and Thistle North SPDs main areas of expertise are well project Sea installations.
During the year, Petrofac management, well engineering optimisation, Browneld safely and successfully installed well engineering studies and consultancy the Wood and Gas Export WaGE module services.
SPD, which was already providing onto Talisman Energys Montrose platform.
services in the Dubai elds, was recently Associated gas from the Montrose platform, awarded a new contract to provide well which is currently being ared, will, in the operations management services in support future, be compressed and exported using of the Dubai Petroleum contract.
In November 2006, Talisman 20 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006
