Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 05 Operating and Financial Review maintenance engineers.
High service, small order Introduction The Group has a needs are currently met by a multitude of local Throughout the Operating and Financial Review, distributors and a limited number of larger commitment to in order to reect underlying business distributors operating in national or regional performance, sales growth is based on sales markets.
Newark InOne and Farnell InOne are service excellence per day for continuing businesses at constant high service, small order distributors and there exchange rates and for like periods.
are few other distributors that can offer a global and is now reach to customers and suppliers equal to that The Premier Farnell Group currently consists of offered by the combination of the two two divisions: Marketing and Distribution and 18 months into businesses.
The Marketing and Distribution Division a programme of Economic and electronics cycles MDD is comprised of five closely-related Through Newark InOne and Farnell InOne, MDD businesses.
Together they represented 87 per continuous has a bias towards the electronics industry.
cent of sales and 83 per cent of underlying Since the 1950s, the penetration of electronics operating profit, before head ofce costs, in the into everyday life has increased steadily.
These businesses distribute a wide range for electronics has typically grown in steps driven of electronic components and equipment and by the arrival of new applications, such as VCRs, service maintenance, repair and operations MRO PCs, mobile phones and, more recently, the products into commercial, industrial and public convergence of communication technologies.
sector markets throughout Europe, North As a result of this bias, the business experiences America and Asia Pacic.
demand which is inuenced by the electronics cycle.
Within these markets, the MDD businesses serve the varying needs of designers, small scale The remainder of the Divisions customer base production units, procurement specialists and is very diverse.
BuckHickman InOne supplies maintenance and repair engineers.
In aggregate, industrial tools, maintenance and personal the MDD businesses have over two million protective products primarily into industrial customer contacts who are attracted by a markets: CPC and MCM supply electrical and common need for a broad product range, rapid electronic ranges, such as audio-visual and and reliable delivery and specialist value-adding security products, to very broad customer services.
They place many small orders with bases, from specialist retailers and small average order values of approximately 220 in businesses to large organisations.
The level North America and 100 in Europe and Asia of general economic activity therefore also Pacic.
The Division stocks in excess of 400,000 different Migration of manufacturing products sourced from a large number of The market available to Premier Farnell in its main suppliers around 3,000 and provides customers geographic markets has remained relatively with access to a further four million products.
stable compared with the migration of higher The Industrial Products Division IPD volume manufacturing to lower cost economies comprises businesses supplying highin recent years.
Whilst lower wage rates have performance products to specialist industrial attracted high volume manufacturing to Eastern markets, predominantly in North America and Europe and Asia, the migration of research and mainland Europe.
The Division accounted for development R&D and small-scale 13 per cent of sales and 17 per cent of manufacturing, two of Premier Farnells primary underlying operating profit, before head ofce customer groups, is less pronounced.
addition, there is a large installed base of electronic equipment that needs maintaining in Premier Farnells traditional geographic markets.
The following sections cover only the Marketing and Distribution Division MDD.
The Industrial As volume manufacturing has migrated to Products Division IPD is covered in the relevant countries such as China and Mexico, these section of the Review of Operations.
countries have grown their industrial infrastructure and their installed base of Markets electronic systems.
As a result, there is an Most markets in which the MDD businesses increasing need for maintenance, repair and operate are highly fragmented.
Although operations products of the kind that Premier typically one of the leaders in any market, these Farnell supplies.
Premier Farnell is meeting the businesses will normally have only a small market requests of a number of larger customers and share and considerable opportunity for growth.
suppliers to support their expansion in these regions.
Newark InOne and Farnell InOne, the two largest businesses, operate in the electronic component Outsourcing distribution market.
Within this market there are There are mounting pressures on industry in two principal types of distributor: volume the US and Western Europe to become more distributors which supply large quantities of efficient.
Many manufacturing companies are components for scheduled manufacturing streamlining or outsourcing the procurement of processes: and high service, small order their MRO product requirements in order to distributors that supply the varied small order reduce the total cost of purchasing.
These requirements of design, production and customers are reducing inventory and ordering 06 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review continued closer to their point of need so requiring reliable effective marketing to specic customer of the year, 130 positions were made supply, late ordering capability and next day groups within the Divisions 2,000,000 redundant across the Group, as part of a cost service.
Premier Farnells MDD businesses are customer contacts and other web site visitors reduction programme.
Within BuckHickman well positioned to create operating efficiencies InOne, a more comprehensive review was market intelligence and feedback.
for such customers by reducing the number of undertaken to identify how the business could suppliers that they deal with and by offering a See supplier relationships, page 14. be improved.
The resulting plans, announced range of other services such as electronic in January 2006, are covered within the Review procurement.
These services enable customers of Operations on page 9.
Strategy to reduce administrative expenses associated 5 Training and skills: Investing in knowledge with placing hundreds, or even thousands, of Harriet Green became Chief Executive officer on and skills that are directly related to employee small orders each year.
One of her priorities is to review performance.
Examples include online training the opportunities available to the Group.
The modules and workshops on margin Environmental legislation results of this review will be communicated later management and RoHS legislation for The EU Directive on the Restriction of certain this year.
Hazardous Substances in electronic and During the year the Group has focused on electrical equipment the RoHS Directive takes meeting the requirements of the EU RoHS Service to customers effect from 1st July 2006 and prohibits the use of Directive and similar legislation elsewhere in the Premier Farnells proposition to customers is certain substances, including lead, cadmium and world and on improving three aspects of its founded on high service.
The Group has a mercury, in electronic and electrical products business in order to help deliver long-term commitment to service excellence and is now placed on the market in the European Union.
shareholder value: efficiency, service to 18 months into a programme of continuous Introducing compliant products to meet the customers, and marketing effectiveness.
During the year, this RoHS legislation and cleansing the supply chain programme led to a further 12 per cent reduction of non-compliant products is placing significant RoHS Directive in service errors across MDD.
demands on suppliers, distributors and As the electronics industry prepares for the customers alike.
Similar legislation is pending The Group is also extending the range of RoHS legislation, Farnell InOne and Newark in a number of US States and Asian markets, value-adding services it offers in order to deepen InOne have established leading positions.
Premier Farnell has established customer relationships and improve profitability.
two businesses have worked closely with a leadership position in preparing for the New services introduced during the year help suppliers to anticipate the rapidly changing legislation.
Progress during the year is covered in customers navigate through the complexities of patterns of demand from customers migrating to the Review of Operations page 8. the RoHS Directive.
Many were delivered using the new, complaint products.
By the year-end, the Groups expanding electronic commerce some 57,000 RoHS-compliant products in infrastructure.
Europe and 57,000 in North America, were being Proposition actively marketed on the web.
In aggregate these Marketing effectiveness Customers numbers have since risen to 130,000.
In During the year marketing activities have been The core of MDDs proposition is a high level of addition, these businesses have launched new stepped up.
Increased catalogue distribution, customer service.
Customers require a very services to help customers successfully comply customer loyalty programmes and targeted broad range of products from a single source.
telemarketing campaigns have helped They want products to be in stock and for small, encourage growth in sales amongst smaller mixed orders to be delivered quickly and reliably.
They also benefit from: The focus on efficiency is being driven in five areas: CRM systems offer insight into the composition ease of identication, selection and ordering of MDDs customer base and the ability to track, from a choice of channels including call 1 Process improvements: The Group handles analyse and predict customers needs.
The use centres, electronic commerce, eld sales over 20,000 customer orders per day, and of these systems to stimulate online marketing is teams and printed catalogues manages around 400,000 products within its becoming increasingly important as sales via distribution centres.
Streamlined business reduced stockholding costs electronic commerce represent an increasing processes for transaction handling, logistics proportion of the Groups business.
other value-adding services such as technical and the management of inventory are therefore support key to the Groups ability to deliver satisfactory returns.
Improvements this year have included reduced transaction costs through efficient Review of Results new processes at Newark InOnes distribution processes such as electronic procurement Group sales for the financial year were centre in Gaffney, South Carolina, to enable and through supplier reduction.
Group back-orders to be lled directly as stock arrives See customer relationships, page 14. sales increased by 3.3 per cent.
rates improved through the second half of the 2 Technology: Technology is used increasingly Suppliers year, reaching 7.9 per cent in the fourth quarter to automate processes and reduce manual For suppliers, MDD represents an effective assisted by improving market conditions in North intervention.
During the year, there has been means of reaching a dispersed customer base.
America and a strong performance in mainland further integration of electronic commerce, Increased understanding of customer needs Europe see Figure 1. customer relationship management CRM enables the MDD businesses to offer suppliers The Groups gross margin showed a decline and back-ofce systems.
ever more sophisticated marketing in order to during the first nine months of the year largely generate demand.
Reaching design engineers is 3 Management systems: Creating closer driven by competitive pressures in North particularly valuable to suppliers as any of their alignment of corporate objectives with personal America, upward cost pressure from certain components specified in a design will be required objectives and incentive schemes.
This has product categories and global freight rates.
in large volumes when that design goes into commenced with the senior management However, this decline was stemmed in the fourth production.
quarter reecting an improved customer mix and fast and reliable global distribution, supported the tightening of controls over discounts 4 Organisation and structure: Reducing by technical help for customers see Figure 2. overheads and enabling reinvestment in customer-facing activities.
In the second half Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 07 The Groups operating margin, before one-off 2006 2005 The first half charges, was 8.9 per cent, down from m m 9.3 per cent in the prior year.
The performance Operating profit before operating profit improved in the second half of the year due to one-off charges 72.2 72.5 stabilisation of the gross margin and strict control One-off charges 11.9 was below the prior of costs.
The fourth quarter operating margin, Net interest payable 14.0 13.5 before one-off charges, was 9.4 per cent up from Preference shares 8.2 year.
In contrast, 9.0 per cent in the prior year see Figure 3. profit before taxation 38.1 59.0 Operating profit in the year was 60.3 million the second half 2005: 72.5 million, after one-off charges of 6.6 million for the estimated write-off of profit before taxation was 38.1 million represented an obsolete and slow moving non-compliant 2005: 59.0 million, after reecting the inventory across the Group which will result accounting for the Groups preference shares improvement on from the implementation of the impending in accordance with IFRS from the start of the RoHS legislation, 3.9 million relating to the financial year which requires the preference the prior year restructuring of the BuckHickman InOne dividend of 6.7 million and a charge of business announced in January, and 1.5 million for the amortisation of an implied 1.4 million of severance costs relating to the redemption premium to be treated as a Groups redundancy programme during the year.
Excluding these one-off charges, operating profit Underlying earnings per share increased by was 72.2 million 2005: 72.5 million.
The first 2.8 per cent, assisted by a low tax charge and half operating profit of 34.0 million was the existence of the xed preference dividend 3.3 million below the prior year, mainly because which adds gearing to the earnings attributable of a reduction of 2.2 million in the contribution to ordinary shareholders.
In contrast, the second half operating profit of 38.2 million before one-off charges represented an improvement on the prior year of 3.0 million due to improving sales, stabilisation of the gross margin, tighter control of costs and more favourable exchange rates.
Both businesses took an early, against sterling has affected the year-on-year strategic decision to allocate new part numbers comparatives as illustrated in the following table.
to RoHS-compliant products regardless of whether the manufacturer had changed 2006 2005 the part number.
This approach, along with Change Reported Reported Exchange At CER at CER the segregation of RoHS-compliant and non-compliant versions of products held in adjustment stock, has received strong endorsement from Sales 814.0 776.7 10.5 787.2 3.4% major suppliers and helped create competitive Operating profit 72.2 72.5 1.5 74.0 2.4% advantage.
In January 2006, Farnell InOnes UK operations were awarded the BSI RoHS Pre-tax profit before trusted kitemark in recognition of the quality preference shares 58.2 59.0 1.2 60.2 3.3% of their processes to provide customers with Underlying EPS 11.1p 10.6p 0.2p 10.8p 2.8% assurance about the compliant status of products supplied.
Inventories of compliant stock were steadily Excluding RoHS inventory provision and reorganisation costs.
increased during the year and, by the year end, Before RoHS inventory provision, reorganisation costs and premium on redemption of preference some 57,000 RoHS-compliant products in shares.
Europe, and 57,000 in North America, were being actively marketed on the web.
In aggregate, these numbers have since risen to Review of Operations over 130,000.
Up-to-date information on the Good progress RoHS-compliant status of products is available Marketing and Distribution Division MDD on the Divisions web sites.
The complexity and has been made in 2006 2005 rapidly changing nature of this information makes m m such updates particularly valuable to electronic preparation for the design engineers.
Sales 706.4 680.0 European Unions Capital expenditure of approximately Operating profit 56.9 69.3 2.4 million is required to create the systems and Underlying operating profit 68.6 69.3 RoHS Directive warehouse capacity to handle the increase in Return on sales % 8.1% 10.2% stocked products.
Of this, approximately half Underlying return on sales % 9.7% 10.2% was spent during the year.
This expenditure includes the commissioning of an auxiliary leased Sales growth % 2.5% warehouse in the UK Darwen, Lancashire, the Before RoHS inventory provision and reorganisation installation of new carousels in Farnell InOnes costs.
Maybrook distribution centre Leeds, UK, and significant internal expansion in Newark InOnes Overall, sales rose by 2.5 per cent in the year.
Gaffney distribution centre South Carolina, US.
Strong growth in mainland Europe and Asia Farnell InOnes distribution centre in Lige Pacic, coupled with an improving sales trend in Belgium also brought additional capacity on the Americas, more than offset the impact of stream.
In addition, approximately 1.3 million of difficult markets in the UK.
expense was incurred for cataloguing, product Underlying operating profit in the year was down management and increased warehouse activity 0.7 million on the prior year.
The primary reason related to RoHS during the year.
for the lower operating profit in the full year was a The Division has a tightly controlled programme reduction in contribution from BuckHickman to minimise the cost of migration to a InOne.
By the end of the Sales through electronic commerce channels year, progress had been made in managing out continued to grow well, up 32 per cent non-compliant and potentially obsolete inventory.
By the fourth quarter of the year A provision of 6.6 million, being an estimate of electronic commerce sales accounted for the likely write-off of obsolete and slow moving, 21 per cent of sales across the Division.
non-compliant product required once the migration is complete, was made at the year-end.
RoHS legislation Restriction of the use of This represents approximately five per cent of the certain Hazardous Substances Divisions total inventory.
During the year, good progress has been made in preparation for the European Unions RoHS Suppliers Directive and similar legislation elsewhere in the During the year, the Division attracted a number world.
of new distribution agreements with leading global electronics brands, including Sharp Newark InOne and Farnell InOne have been Microelectronics Europe, Cirrus Logic and working closely with suppliers and customers to Kemet.
These agreements help to build the assist compliance with the legislation.
Within Divisions proposition to its customer base of these businesses, active marketing electronic design engineers.
The Divisions programmes were used to promote the increasing ability to offer suppliers marketing differentiated RoHS-related services that they capabilities was also recognised by the award of offer.
These include bill of materials conversions, nine marketing awards to Newark InOne by the early availability of compliant stock, certicates National Electronic Distribution Association of compliance, and obsolescence notication NEDA in November.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 09 MDD Americas electronic procurement partnerships were campaigns were complemented by the launch, secured with customers including Caterpillar, in the first quarter, of Electronics Design World, 2006 2005 GE Consumer and Industrial, and Massachusetts a multi-lingual community web site for design m m Institute of Technology MIT.
Sales 310.0 289.8 In June 2005, Newark InOne acquired the assets Sales Operating profit 22.2 25.5 of R&R Instrumentation, a Denver-based 2006 2005 growth Underlying operating profit 27.1 25.5 distributor of test equipment and panel Sales by region m m % instruments, and a provider of calibration Return on sales % 7.2% 8.8% UK including exports 262.6 265.6 1.1% services, for 1.7 million.
The business had sales Underlying return on sales % 8.7% 8.8% of 2.3 million in the period since acquisition.
By Mainland Europe 104.7 97.0 7.7% Sales growth % 4.1% the year end, Newark InOne had started to sell Asia Pacic 29.1 27.6 2.1% calibration services to its extensive customer Before RoHS inventory provision and reorganisation base.
UK Sales from operations in Brazil and Mexico In the Americas, sales grew 4.1 per cent on the The Divisions UK sales declined by 1.1 per cent continued to grow strongly and, in aggregate, prior year, or 3.4 per cent excluding acquisitions.
The regions performance was were up 20 per cent in the year.
Sales growth accelerated as the year progressed, held back by continued deterioration in the UK helped by a pick-up in the underlying market.
market throughout the first half.
In the latter part MCM, an InOne Company During the first half of the year, some erosion of the year, the market began to stabilise and MCM distributes electronics and related of gross margins occurred in response to performance was helped by a strong recovery equipment to service and repair professionals competitive market conditions and a shift in from CPC.
The Divisions UK sales grew by and technical hobbyists throughout the United customer mix towards corporate account sales.
2.8 per cent in the final quarter of the year.
It comprises less than 10 per cent of Gross margins were stabilised by the end of the MDD Americas sales.
During the year, MCM third quarter through a number of measures, Farnell InOne: Farnell InOne markets and grew sales satisfactorily as it continued to including exercising tighter control over the distributes electronic components, test and develop its business within specic target quality of business.
Despite gross margin measurement equipment and MRO products.
markets, including consumer electronics pressure, underlying operating margin in the retailers, home theatre engineers, and casinos Over the year, Farnell InOnes performance in the year was held close to the prior year level as and gaming establishments.
The business has UK was resilient in a difficult environment.
In the overheads and staff costs were contained.
also increased the effectiveness of its sales first half of the year there was evidence of Sales through electronic commerce channels and marketing through the use of customer cautious customer behaviour with a decline in in MDD America increased by 19 per cent relationship management CRM programmes the average order value.
and the launch of a new web site in the recovered in the final quarter.
The business responded by driving efficiency Newark InOne and delivering more effective marketing.
Online Newark InOne is a leading distributor of MDD Europe and Asia Pacic campaigning was increased, including the electronic components and equipment in the 2006 2005 advertising of RoHS-related information, products North American market.
By sales, it comprises m m and services made available by Farnell InOne.
over 90 per cent of MDD Americas.
This helped drive a significant increase in the Sales 396.4 390.2 More effective marketing programmes number of visits to the Divisions web site, both in contributed to the business sales growth Operating profit 34.7 43.8 the UK and across Europe and Asia Pacic.
The distribution of Newark Underlying operating profit 41.5 43.8 In September, the business launched the InOnes annual catalogue, released in Return on sales % 8.8% 11.2% industrys most comprehensive catalogue September, was increased by a third to Underlying return on sales % 10.5% 11.2% containing exclusively RoHS-compliant support these programmes.
By the end of the year, Farnell InOne Sales growth % 1.3% The drive for efficiency resulted in a restructuring had begun to experience an acceleration of of Newark InOnes management team during Before RoHS inventory provision and reorganisation growth in sales of RoHS-compliant products.
the third quarter to reduce cost and increase costs.
BuckHickman InOne: BuckHickman InOne Sales were up 1.3 per cent in the year.
For most markets and distributes tools, consumables Awareness of RoHS legislation in the North of the period market conditions in the UK were and health and safety equipment to industrial American market has risen as a number of difficult, and in mainland Europe were patchy.
States in the US are planning to adopt legislation However, in the last quarter of the year the UK similar to that in Europe.
By sharing expertise market began to stabilise and the mainland As a result of the unacceptable reduction in with Farnell InOne, Newark InOne has introduced European markets showed some growth.
the contribution from BuckHickman InOne, a a number of differentiated RoHS-related services Markets in Asia were strong throughout the year, broad-based review was started in September and the business has established a leadership though the Divisions overall performance in to explore how its performance could be position in its market.
Regular customer surveys Asia Pacic was held back by difficult conditions improved.
The resulting plans were announced during the year indicate that Newark InOne also in Australia.
The primary reason for the in January 2006 and included a comprehensive achieved higher customer satisfaction ratings as reduced underlying operating profit for the year restructuring of the sales and logistics operations the year progressed.
was the reduction in contribution from under which BuckHickman InOnes branches will BuckHickman InOne.
focus solely on delivering sales and customer Newark InOnes total product range was again service.
Inventory and logistics will be streamlined extended signicantly, much of it due to the Across Europe sales via the web continued to through the creation of a number of regional addition of RoHS-compliant products.
In the grow and, in aggregate, MDD Europe and distribution centres.
Tighter commercial autumn, the product range accessible via Asia Pacics sales through electronic commerce disciplines to manage customer contracts, and Newark InOnes electronic procurement systems channels were up 40 per cent year-on-year.
better sourcing through the centralisation of was also extended and a more advanced search The business increased the number of procurement, are also being established.
During the year a number of supplier-specic promotions it ran.
These 10 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review continued The migration to this new business model is Marketing initiatives in new territories also trucks.
It produced sales of 5.6 million in the anticipated to be substantially complete by helped to stimulate sales growth.
During the period since acquisition.
The business was fully January 2007 and will result in a reduction first quarter, a Farnell InOne web site was integrated by the year-end and is performing of approximately 175 jobs and the creation launched in Japan and the business launched ahead of plan.
An exceptional charge its first catalogue in Thailand.
Excluding Weldon, sales were up 7.5 per cent of 3.9 million has been made to cover During the year, the business achieved faster in the year, despite the municipal re-ghting redundancies and other restructuring costs.
By the fourth quarter, market remaining relatively at in North America A number of other measures were taken during operations in Singapore, Malaysia and Hong until the fourth quarter, when some growth the year to improve BuckHickman InOnes sales Kong were brought onto the Divisions common resumed.
Sales growth was helped by several performance.
A new catalogue was launched back ofce system and certain warehouse new product introductions, strong exports and in May, followed by a sustained increase in operations in the region were rationalised to drive sales of equipment into industrial markets.
The telemarketing campaigns throughout the efficiency.
latter included a 330,000 order for a vapour remainder of the year.
A new web site was mitigation system from the National Cooperative launched in June, and a more focused sales Australia Rening Association NCRA in Kansas.
incentive programme was introduced within the Sales in Australia were down by 4.2 per cent Akron Brass also made progress expanding into branch network in the autumn.
Having started the period relatively new geographies, particularly Asia where it Distribution Centre in Coventry, which will be at, they declined as the electronics market and secured its first major order in China during largely unaffected by the restructuring proposals, competitive environment became increasingly the autumn.
achieved consistently high levels of service difficult during the year.
Action has been taken during the year.
to improve the business competitive position, Akron Brass experienced a steep rise in the cost including the launch of a new catalogue since the of its primary raw material, brass ingot.
This was CPC: CPC distributes electrical and electronic year-end.
compensated for by increasing selling prices and equipment and accessories.
Its customer base by achieving further efficiencies in manufacturing.
comprises primarily smaller companies in the UK.
Industrial Products Division IPD The Industrial Products Division is a group of TPC Wire & Cable CPCs sales for the year increased 1.9 per cent businesses supplying high performance TPC Wire & Cable is a marketer and supplier of as it stabilised, and then recovered from, a products to specialist industrial markets.
high performance electrical and electronic wire, period of under-performance in the prior year.
Its cable and connectors designed for heavy duty or management team was strengthened and the 2006 2005 harsh industrial environments, operating in the sourcing of more price-competitive products m m United States, Canada and Mexico.
from Asia, combined with increasingly active Sales 107.6 96.7 marketing, helped to improve both sales and TPC achieved sales growth of 9.8 per cent profitability.
The business launched a redesigned Operating profit 14.1 12.9 year-on-year despite weaker sales in its catalogue containing approximately 16,000 new traditional North American automotive markets.
Return on sales % 13.1% 13.3% products in September and, in the final quarter, TPC is expanding its operations into new CPCs sales rose 10.3 per cent, marking a Sales growth % 9.2% geographies as the demand for its products strong return to growth.
and services increases alongside the growth of Both sales and operating profit were signicantly industrial manufacturing in emerging markets.
It Mainland Europe ahead of the prior year as a result of strong is expanding business through the development In mainland Europe, Farnell InOne delivered a performances by the Akron Brass and TPC Wire of new customers in offshore drilling platform strong performance throughout the year as & Cable businesses.
construction, mining, Government and utilities.
sales rose 7.7 per cent, despite patchy markets The success of its diversication strategy The overall return on sales within IPD showed a in the first half of the year.
This performance was continued as sales into new, non-automotive reduction on the prior year because of a weaker driven by particularly strong growth in Italy, Spain markets accelerated, up 40 per cent on those in performance during the first half from the KENT and Germany.
High service levels from the the prior year.
distribution centre in Lige, a broadened range During the year, selective price increases and a of stocked product and continued rapid growth Akron Brass changing business mix helped the business in electronic commerce sales helped the Akron Brass is a market leader in the manufacture combat margin pressure from increased raw business out-perform the underlying markets.
and sale of high performance re-ghting material prices.
In the summer, the German, Austrian and Swiss equipment for re truck manufacturers, public operations began using the Divisions CRM re services and industrial facilities.
Its products KENT system and marketing across all territories are designed to improve the safety and efficiency KENT specialises in the sale and distribution of became more closely coordinated.
of personnel and equipment engaged in the products aimed at professional customers in the suppression of re.
It sells through its own eld automotive aftermarket and industrial repair Across mainland Europe, strong growth in sales force and through distributors to markets, operating throughout Europe.
Sales at sales via the web was stimulated in part by customers all over the world.
It has a high share KENT increased 0.4 per cent in the year, in a the increasing demand for RoHS-related of the North American market for the products market that remained weak.
KENTs performance information and services provided via web sites.
it sells and seeks to grow by broadening its was assisted by an arrangement to supply its By the fourth quarter, the region had seen a product range and reaching new geographic new abrasive range to General Motors French pronounced increase in sales of RoHS-compliant and industrial markets assisted by appropriate dealer network, and the launch of a new range of products.
Asia Sales grew by 23.0 per cent in the year following During the second half of the year the business The Divisions sales in Asia increased by 13.3 per the acquisition of Weldon Technologies in June consolidated some back-ofce functions in cent year-on-year, with a marked acceleration for 5.9 million.
Weldon is a US-based supplier order to reduce overheads.
The business also evident in the second half.
Strong growth was of lighting and electrical control solutions to a benefited from the introduction, in the fourth achieved in China, albeit from a low base, and number of speciality vehicle markets, including quarter, of new technology to assist its eld sales sales in Singapore also grew particularly well.
those for ambulances, school buses and re teams in Italy operate more effectively.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11 The Groups two principal dened benefit earlier years liabilities, was 18.5 per cent Financial Review pension plans are in the UK, which was closed 2005: 28.1 per cent.
This rate reected International Financial Reporting to new entrants in 1998, and North America.
significant benets realised from the Groups Standards IFRS efficient nancing structure.
The liability relating to the UK plan at the In June 2002, the European Union approved the year-end was 29.6 million 2005: 20.9 million application of IFRS for all listed groups for Ordinary dividend with the increase on the prior year arising periods commencing on or after 1st January The Board is recommending a final dividend principally from a reduction in the market-related 2005.
As a result, the Group adopted IFRS with of 5.0 pence, which, together with the interim bond rate used to discount the schemes effect from 31st January 2005.
The primary dividend, amounts to a total dividend per share liabilities at the year end.
Contributions to the UK effects of IFRS on the Group were as follows: of 9.0 pence, unchanged from the previous year, plan were 0.6 million in the year.
As a result of and with a total impact on shareholders funds of the reclassication of the Groups preference the April 2005 triennial valuation of the UK plan, 32.6 million.
shares from shareholders funds to financial contributions are expected to increase to liabilities 2.9 million next year.
Earnings per share the introduction of pension accounting rules The US plan remains over funded and a Basic earnings per share were 8.6 pence which broadly follow FRS 17 under UK GAAP contribution holiday will continue for the 2005: 10.6 pence.
Underlying earnings per foreseeable future.
The pension asset relating share, before the RoHS inventory provision, the requirement to reect a charge in the to this plan at the year end was 52.0 million reorganisation costs and the premium arising income statement relating to share-based 2005: 44.3 million, with the increase on the on the redemption of preference shares, was incentives prior year arising principally from the income in 11.1 pence 2005: 10.6 pence.
Earnings per the cessation of amortisation of goodwill which the year and the translation impact from a share benefited from the particularly low tax is now subject to an annual test for impairment stronger US dollar.
the requirement to account for ordinary Acquisitions Cash ow and net debt dividends in the period they are approved as On 20th June 2005, the Group acquired the Free cash ow attributable to ordinary opposed to the period to which they relate.
entire issued share capital of Weldon shareholders is summarised below.
As these are the Groups first Consolidated Technologies Inc. Weldon, a US-based 2006 2005 Financial Statements produced in accordance company that produces lighting devices and m m with IFRS, the Group has applied IFRS 1, First electrical control solutions for speciality vehicle Time Adoption of IFRS revised 2004, which markets, for a cash consideration of 5.9 million.
Operating profit 60.3 72.5 permits those adopting IFRS for the first time to Weldon contributed sales of 5.6 million in One-off charges: take exemptions from applying the full the year.
income statement 11.9 requirements of IFRS to certain items.
cash impact 2.0 On 28th June 2005, the Group acquired the Non-cash impact of Details of the impact of IFRS, together with business and assets of R&R Instruments R&R, one-off charges 9.9 the exemptions taken, are included in the a US-based distributor and calibrator of test Depreciation and amortisation 21.0 19.7 Accounting Policies on page 33 and in note 29 equipment and panel instruments, for a cash Changes in working capital to the Consolidated Financial Statements which consideration of 1.7 million.
R&R contributed before one-off charges 10.9 19.9 also includes a reconciliation from UK GAAP to sales of 2.3 million in the year.
Other non-cash movements IFRS of the income statement for the year ended before one-off charges 1.0 0.2 30th January 2005 and the balance sheets as at Net finance costs 30th January 2005 and 2nd February 2004, the The net interest charge of 14.0 million Cash generated from transition date to IFRS.
In addition, further details 2005: 13.5 million was covered 5.2 times operations 79.3 72.5 are given in the Groups IFRS announcement by operating profit before the RoHS inventory Capital expenditure 11.5 13.3 made on 4th May 2005, a copy of which can provision and reorganisation costs.
Interest Proceeds from sale of be found on the Groups web site payments related predominantly to xed rate property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.0 www.
The effective interest rate Interest and preference on the Groups xed rate borrowings was dividends 20.6 20.0 The financial statements of the Company for the 6.3 per cent.
Taxation 14.3 12.1 year ended 29th January 2006 on pages 65 to SEC fide-registration costs 0.3 74 remain in accordance with UK GAAP.
Included in finance costs for the year is a charge of 8.2 million 2005: nil in respect of the Free cash ow 33.7 28.1 Post-retirement benets Companys convertible preference shares.
The Group accounts for pensions and other Under IFRS, with effect from 31st January 2005, Cash generated from operations represented post-retirement benets in accordance with the preference dividend for the year of a conversion rate of 110 per cent IAS 19 revised 2004.
The total charge for 6.7 million, together with a 1.5 million charge 2005: 100 per cent of operating profit before post-retirement benets was 0.7 million for the amortisation of the implied redemption one-off charges and reects the continued tight 2005: 0.9 million and can be analysed as premium on preference shares, is included as a control of working capital across the Group.
follows: finance cost with no restatement of prior year Excluding one-off charges, working capital comparatives.
This is purely an accounting increased by 10.9 million in the year.
Inventories 2006 2005 change as a result of IFRS and has no impact were tightly managed with the increase of m m on the Groups nancing arrangements.
5.4 million reecting the investment in RoHS Dened benefit pension plans product of 6.3 million.
Receivables increased by net credit 2.5 2.7 Taxation 6.0 million as a result of the sales growth in the Dened contribution pension The Groups effective tax charge represented fourth quarter.
Receivable days have been plans 2.6 2.7 15.6 per cent 2005: 23.7 per cent of the profit maintained at similar levels to last year, with a Other post-retirement benets 0.6 0.9 before tax and preference dividends.
The year end group average of 51 days.
effective tax rate, excluding the impact of tax Net post-retirement cost 0.7 0.9 credits arising from the favourable settlement of 12 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review continued Capital expenditure of 11.5 million included manage the exposures arising from volatility in 5.7 million of software development costs, these markets, with derivative instruments being principally to enhance existing systems.
Capital entered into when considered appropriate by expenditure in the coming year is likely to be management.
The Group Treasury function is responsible The change in net debt excluding preference for sourcing and structuring borrowing shares and derivative financial instruments is requirements, managing interest rate and foreign summarised below: exchange exposure and managing any surplus funds, which are invested mainly in short-term m deposits with financial institutions that meet the Opening net debt 200.7 credit criteria approved by the Board.
In addition, monthly reports are produced by the Group Free cash ow 33.7 Treasury function which are used to monitor Ordinary dividends 32.6 treasury activities.
Important treasury Acquisitions 7.6 management decisions are approved by the Issue of ordinary shares 0.1 Board and an annual report detailing the Groups 6.4 debt, cash and hedging activity is reviewed by Exchange movement 12.6 the Board.
Closing net debt 219.7 Group policy prohibits speculative arrangements in that transactions in financial instruments are The Groups net debt comprises the following: matched to an underlying business requirement, such as forecast debt and interest repayments m and expected foreign currency revenues.
The Cash at bank and in hand 40.5 Group uses derivatives only to manage its foreign Bank loans and overdrafts 42.8 currency and interest rate risks arising from US $380 million Senior Notes due underlying business activities.
The Group 2006, 2010 and 2013 214.7 Treasury function is subject to periodic Other loans 2.7 independent reviews by the Internal Audit Department.
Controls over interest rate and 219.7 foreign exchange exposures and transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are The resulting prole of the Groups loan finance restricted to those banks with the relevant and committed bank facilities is illustrated in the combination of geographic presence and chart below.
This shows sound medium-term suitable credit rating.
funding and bank facility headroom of 165 million which is sufficient to accommodate The Group monitors the credit ratings of its the renancing of the $155 million senior notes counterparties and credit exposure for each maturing in June 2006. counterparty.
The Group typically hedges transactions primarily Debt profile related to the purchase and sale of inventories m 417 denominated in foreign currencies through 400 foreign exchange forward contracts.
These contracts reduce currency risk from exchange 300 rate movements with respect to these transactions and cash ows.
253 200 The Group does not hedge profit translation exposure, unless there is a corresponding cash ow, since such hedges provide only a 100 temporary deferral of the effect of movements in exchange rates.
Similarly, whilst a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars, the Group does not 0 2006 2008 2010 2012 specically hedge all of its long-term investments in overseas assets.
Bilateral bank facilities to 2010 $155m 7.2% Senior Notes repayable 2006 Risks and Uncertainties $66m 5.3% Senior Notes repayable 2010 There are a number of risks and uncertainties $159m 5.9% Senior Notes repayable 2013 that could have an effect on the Groups Gross debt at 29th January 2006 performance.
As at the date of this Report, the Board considers the risks described below to be Treasury operations the principal risks facing the Group.
The Group The Group is exposed to a number of different has a risk management structure in place that market risks, including movement in interest is designed to identify, manage and mitigate rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
This forms part of the Groups Group has established policies and procedures system of internal control that is described in within the treasury function to monitor and detail on page 22.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 13 RoHS legislation Systems and infrastructure mitigate this risk and provide a hedge against The legislation implementing the EU Directive on The operations of the Groups main businesses dollar denominated operating cash ows and the the Restriction of certain Hazardous Substances are heavily dependent on its principal distribution Groups US investments.
The Groups policy is in electronic and electrical equipment the RoHS facilities in South Carolina, US and Leeds, not to hedge profit translation risk unless there is Directive has been an area of focus for the England, from which a significant proportion of a real cash exposure since such hedges provide Group during the year under review and will customer orders are despatched, and on the only a temporary deferral of the effect of continue to be so for the coming year.
Moving Groups IT hardware and software.
The Group movements in exchange rates.
to compliance involves the replacement of a takes steps to protect these distribution facilities significant proportion of stocked products with with measures such as sprinkler protection and Human resources compliant alternatives.
This brings with it the the separate storage of highly ammable As a service business, Premier Farnell relies potential risk of stock write offs greater than products and works closely with its insurers in heavily on its employees.
It would be damaging those for which provision has been made, if the assessing the risks of damage to these facilities.
to the Group if it were unable to attract and retain transition is not well managed.
Many of the In addition, business continuity plans exist and personnel at key management levels.
The ways Groups customers will require compliant are under review with the aim of minimising the in which this risk is addressed are described in products and appropriate levels of assurance adverse impact on the business should detail in the Resources and Relationships section from the Group of product compliance.
For the UK and of this report.
Group has had a senior management team European business, this planning is assisted by in place to address this risk for over a year the Groups ability to switch order fullment BuckHickman InOne and has been working closely with its suppliers between distribution facilities in Leeds and Lige, In January 2006 Premier Farnell announced a and customers.
The approach taken to achieve Belgium, as these facilities hold a proportion of comprehensive restructuring of BuckHickman compliance with the legislation is very clear and common products.
InOne to improve the business performance, well dened and has been communicated to due to be substantially completed by January The robustness of the Groups IT infrastructure suppliers and customers.
During this restructuring there are risks is regularly reviewed by management and plans levels of stock and potential write offs is associated with the possible breakdown of are developed to address areas of potential managed closely and has been brought to the customer and supplier relationships and the weakness.
Where practicable, these plans are attention of shareholders through the Groups potential for key staff to become disaffected.
During the year, the Board also quarterly statements since the half year.
There is also the risk that the restructuring will not considered the future IT strategy of the Group achieve its desired outcome of fundamentally As described in other sections of this report, and the outcome of this review includes plans to improving the profitability of the business.
dealing successfully with the implementation improve further the management and mitigation of the RoHS legislation also represents a of IT-related risks.
These risks have been addressed by piloting considerable opportunity for the Group to many of the proposed changes and assessing out-perform its competitors.
Competitive pressures their impact before deciding to proceed on a The Groups Marketing and Distribution Division wider basis.
In addition, the maintenance of Market migration operates in a fragmented market with a number external supplier and customer relationships and Premier Farnells available market has remained of international and many regional competitors.
an extensive communication programme with relatively stable compared with the migration of This environment creates pressure on the prices employees throughout the restructuring process manufacturing to lower cost economies in recent that the Division is able to charge for its products are integral to the restructuring plans.
While lower wage rates have attracted and on the levels of service it provides.
It is A dedicated management team has now been high volume manufacturing to Eastern Europe therefore fundamental that the Divisions appointed to lead the business through the and Asia, the migration of research and proposition to its customers remains attractive restructuring process.
development, and small-scale manufacturing, and at the forefront of its chosen markets.
The two of Premier Farnells primary customer Group maintains awareness of developments in Legal risks groups, is less pronounced.
In addition, there is a the market, including actions by competitors, The Group operates internationally and is subject large installed base of electronic equipment in and anticipates and responds to such to laws and regulations in a large number of Premier Farnells traditional geographic markets developments.
An important factor in recent countries.
Combined with this, the large numbers that needs maintaining, providing an ongoing years has been customer demand for the ability of customers and suppliers to the Group results market for the Groups maintenance and repair to transact with the Group electronically.
in a complex set of contractual obligations and a products.
Nevertheless, there is likely to be an Electronic channels are increasingly preferred risk of non-compliance.
ongoing decline in the Groups manufacturing by customers and also bring efficiencies to the customer base in these geographic markets.
There is, therefore, a significant focus on The Group addresses this risk in a number of This risk is being addressed by taking steps to the Groups progress in continually upgrading its ways: expand into other non-manufacturing market electronic commerce capabilities, such as the through reviews and training provided by the segments, and by growing share in international ease of use of its transactional web sites.
Levels in-house legal department and developing markets.
of customer service are monitored closely and deviations from targeted levels are reported to advice provided by suitable external counsel Cyclical performance senior management.
monitoring and reporting of issues by the While Premier Farnell supplies a very broad range Internal Audit function of products, experience shows that the demand Foreign currency for these products is cyclical.
While the Group is As a relatively high proportion of the Groups internal control processes requiring local experienced in managing profitability through sales and operating profits arise in North management to report on areas of potential the cycle, quite rapidly changing levels of sales America, the Groups reported results are non-compliance demand in a business with a significant xed cost adversely affected by a major weakening of the controls on the levels of management required base carries the risk of volatility in earnings.
This profit translation to approve proposed contractual risk is approximately 0.2 million of operating This risk is being mitigated by strategic planning arrangements.
profit for each 1 cent movement in the exchange and budgeting processes that take close rate.
The Group has denominated most of its account of anticipated market conditions and external borrowings in US dollars in order to by tight control of the xed cost base.
14 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review continued diverse spectrum of private and public Collectively, this network typically handles Resources and Relationships organisations, covering all industries and areas of over 20,000 orders per day and stocks some Employees commerce.
No single customer represents more 400,000 products.
Technology systems are Premier Farnell is essentially a people than two per cent of Group sales.
therefore central to delivering high service.
Consistent service delivery relies network is managed by a global supply chain The Group has customer relationship on the contribution and performance of all team that shares best practice between management CRM systems within its key MDD employees.
locations and drives a programme of continuous businesses.
These are adding to a growing improvement in accuracy, efficiency and service.
Employees throughout the Group receive understanding of customers needs and enabling feedback on their performance through the the business to offer specic customers the At the year-end the Group held 163.2 million annual Group Performance Review Process.
services that they most value.
of inventory in its businesses, of which This claries responsibilities and objectives, 145.8 million was in the MDD businesses.
The MDD businesses manage relationships with addresses employees development customers through multiple channels including Inventory is managed on a line-by-line basis, needs and helps match individuals career catalogues, web sites and conversations with utilising best-in-class forecasting and stock development aspirations with the business customers, both by phone and face-to-face.
The re-ordering of most needs of the Group.
products is automated, enabling purchasing The Group places strong emphasis on individual Supplier relationships teams to manage order quantity, delivery or and team performance.
In the year, in addition The MDD businesses work with over 3,000 demand exceptions.
Order ll rates are among to normal incentive plans for sales personnel, suppliers, stock approximately 400,000 the highest in the industry, in line with the almost half of non-sales staff had an element of products, and offer access to more than Groups commitment to service excellence.
their remuneration related to performance.
The Divisions The Division aims to increase stock turns through attraction to suppliers is directly related to its the use of ever more intelligent systems, During the year, the Group continued to invest ability to create demand from within its global seamless supply chain integration with suppliers, in training, in particular through the use of the customer base.
and elimination of any non-moving stocks.
Premier Farnell On Line Learning Centre which has the capability to deliver to 4,000 users The supplier base is balanced to offer customers The Division uses a variety of third-party carriers across the Group.
In the last 12 months there a breadth of products from many different to ship orders.
It has a strategic relationship with has been a particular focus on training large suppliers, whilst also offering deeper product UPS, its principal carrier, responsible for numbers of staff in quality and efficiency ranges from some key suppliers with whom the approximately two thirds of its world-wide techniques and on the implications of the Division has strategic alliances and improved deliveries each day.
All parts of the Group are focused on reducing Across Farnell InOne and Newark InOne, Corporate Responsibility the cost and disruption associated with the portfolio of suppliers is managed by an During the year the Group has reviewed its high levels of staff turnover and excessive international team.
The largest suppliers within approach to Corporate Responsibility CR in absenteeism, particularly in distribution centres this portfolio include global premium brands order to focus what it does in the areas that are and call centres where turnover has historically for whom integrated sales and marketing most relevant to it.
In December 2005, the been highest.
During the year most areas of the strategies are developed by the team.
During Companys Board approved the CR Policy set business exhibited improvements.
the year, the Division continued to build its out below and this report reects the priorities proposition to two specic customer segments, The Group actively encourages open referred to in the Policy.
electronic design engineers EDE and communications.
Management teams are maintenance, repair and operations MRO expected to host formal business updates for Corporate Responsibility Policy engineers, by securing distribution agreements employees at least quarterly, following the Approach with relevant suppliers.
Premier Farnell takes seriously its role as a Following the establishment of a European Elsewhere within the Division, supplier responsible corporate citizen and seeks to employee forum in 1999, the Group has relationships are managed at a business level, take account of the economic, social and also established a UK employee forum during enabling specic customer needs to be met by environmental impacts of its operations.
sourcing, for example, locally branded products, our belief that acting in this way is a source of or value-for-money products from Asia.
business opportunity, improved competitiveness Market position and reputation and sound business practice.
The Marketing and Distribution Division trades Distribution network and inventory through several major brands including Farnell The Marketing and Distribution Division has sales Accountability InOne, Newark InOne and BuckHickman InOne.
These are supported by a The Board has overall responsibility for As their product portfolios and customer bases network of distribution centres that enable the establishing the Groups CR policies and the are diverse, the precise market positions of Division to ship products anywhere in the world Group Chief Executive is accountable for these brands are hard to quantify.
The roots of within one to three days.
Almost all orders are ensuring that the Group operates in accordance these major brands are all over 70 years old and dispatched on the day they are placed.
Reporting of our performance have high recognition and prominence within is led by the Company Secretary.
The network is comprised of eight primary their particular markets.
They are promoted by distribution centres: on-line and off-line marketing programmes Reporting within their key market segments and brand US Gaffney South Carolina and The Board will receive a report on the Groups reputations are reviewed through regular Springboro Ohio CR performance at least every six months, market surveys.
UK Leeds, Coventry and Preston periodic updates will be provided on the Mainland Europe Lige Belgium www.
com web site and a formal Customer relationships Asia Singapore report will appear each year in the Groups The MDD businesses have a customer base Australia Sydney.
comprised of some 2,000,000 customer These are supplemented by satellite warehouses contacts.
Contacts are typically design, in other locations including Mexico, Brazil, production and maintenance engineers, or and China.
They represent a Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 15 Principles Workplace and community and electronic equipment WEEE.
The impact of Our guiding principle is to develop an approach Our aim is to be recognised by existing and electronic and electrical equipment in the waste that is appropriate to the nature and size of our potential future employees as a responsible stream is significant.
It is estimated, for example, business and that builds and maintains a positive employer that values its people and provides an that over 100 million computers, monitors and view of the Group with all of our stakeholders.
environment in which they can develop their skills televisions become obsolete each year in the US.
We will focus on the following areas: and make a contribution to the success of the The RoHS and WEEE legislation addresses business.
We also wish to make a contribution to the harmful effects of such waste in two ways: Compliance with laws the communities in which we operate, building first by restricting the use of certain hazardous Our Group-wide Code of Ethics requires goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour substances in electronic and electrical compliance with laws and regulations in the and employer.
equipment and, second by imposing countries in which we operate.
responsibilities to increase the recycling, We communicate widely with employees to build re-use and recovery of such equipment.
The senior manager of our business units in each a common set of business values that we believe country will be required to identify quarterly any will result in behaviours that will deliver a better The Group takes a proactive approach to non-compliance with the laws and regulations of customer experience and grow sales.
reducing the environmental impact of its paper the country in which that business unit operates based marketing materials.
In the UK, the Company is a member of Business and any breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics in the Community and has initiated a number of We are progressively reducing the weight of of which the manager is aware.
employee volunteering programmes with Leeds paper used in our catalogues, resulting in an The Internal Audit function reports any instances Cares.
In the US, all of our businesses participate 18 per cent reduction in paper grammage of non-compliance that it identies to the Audit in the United Way, an umbrella organisation for a per page between 2005 and 2006.
Newark InOne catalogue is printed on paper with a minimum of 35 per cent post-consumer The Group operates a whistle-blowing helpline to The Group has achieved the Per Cent Standard recycled content.
The Europe and Asia Pacic enable employees to report any concerns they and will seek to maintain this standard.
catalogues use paper with an average content may have on a condential basis.
of 60 per cent FSC Forests Stewardship Targets and performance Council and PEFC Pan European Forestry Environment References to years throughout the Corporate Certifcation certied pulps.
We are actively We continually seek to reduce the environmental Responsibility section of the Operating and working with our paper suppliers to increase impact of our operations and the associated costs.
Financial Review are to calendar years, rather these percentages.
The paper used contains than the Companys financial year.
The data is Our principal environmental impacts are carbon only elemental chlorine free and totally presented in this report in two ways: total emissions, the use of paper and packaging and chlorine free pulps only those which do quantity of usage generation and unit rates the disposal of waste.
not use chlorine as a bleaching agent.
based on sales turnover ie quantity per 1,000 Each year we will set targets for the reduction of sales.
The adhesives used for binding our catalogues of these impacts and report our performance, are easy to separate in the recycling process including the associated impact on costs.
Environment and we will be encouraging customers to We collect data on the amount of energy used recycle old catalogues as paper waste.
We will also continue to gain ISO 14001 and greenhouse gas emitted by Group accreditation for more of our sites or, where operations, waste disposed and waste recycled Performance against 2005 environmental more appropriate, ensure sites reach our own in order to assess our environmental impact.
In order to ensure that we have representative Target: Roll out our green facility programme Health and safety and reliable environmental data, we review across the Group and target the achievement of We strive to provide a safe and healthy new data each quarter and compare it to data green status at three additional facilities during environment for our employees and visitors to from prior years.
This continual review and the year.
our premises and to keep the number of working comparison allows us to detect and correct any Result: Achieved at our Newark InOne hours lost through health and safety incidents to errors and may result in the restatement of distribution centre in Gaffney, South Carolina: our a minimum.
on-site facility at Vauxhalls manufacturing plant We monitor both the number of workplace As part of the process for improving our at Ellesmere Port, UK: and our corporate ofces injuries and illnesses and the number of environmental performance, we introduced the in London, UK.
lost-time workplace injuries and set targets for concept of green ofces and facilities in 2003.
Target: Achieve a five per cent reduction in the reduction of both.
Each year we will report Rating sheets enable individual sites be they energy use at our main distribution centre in our performance and the associated costs.
ofces, distribution centres or sales branches to Leeds.
The rating sheets We will also monitor the rates of absenteeism address the main environmental impacts of our Result: Achieved 8.8 per cent reduction in and the causes and take action to achieve business.
Points are earned for environmental energy use chiey through reduced night time reductions in absenteeism.
practices that conserve energy, minimise waste heating, resulting in an annual saving of 350mwh disposal and encourage recycling.
Minimising 150 tonnes reduction in CO emissions.
2 Marketplace water use is also encouraged.
Sites achieving a We will engage with suppliers and, where Target: Introduce battery recycling facilities for target score are recognised and awarded a possible, use our relationships to inuence their employees at our Leeds site.
certicate conrming their green status.
We now approach to corporate responsibility.
We will deal have six green ofces and facilities.
Result: A collection point has been established with all stakeholders in an ethical manner.
for the recycling of Alkaline, NiCAD and NiMH Two significant pieces of European We deal with over 3,000 suppliers around the batteries.
This initiative has been widely environmental legislation affect the Groups world and do not have the resources to monitor publicised and early results are encouraging.
the approach of every one.
We will therefore These are the European Directives dealing with Target: We will continue to take a pro-active select an appropriate number of suppliers each the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous stance regarding the implementation of the year with whom we will engage.
We will also Substances RoHS in electronic and electrical RoHS Directive.
develop a supplier policy based on independent equipment, and the disposal of waste electrical ethical trading guidelines.
16 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review continued Result: Accreditation to the BSI RoHS Trusted Performance against 2005 safety targets Result: We established a safety and Kitemark achieved by Farnell InOne in January Target: To achieve a recordable injury and illness environmental resources page on the Groups 2006.
The RoHS Trusted Kitemark is an rate of less than 50 per cent of our industry Online Learning Centre web site at the beginning independent, recognisable mark that average.
We conducted demonstrations of the demonstrates to customers that Farnell InOne training programme in January 2005 to acquaint Result: In 2005 the rate at which industrial is taking all reasonable steps to comply with the Group safety and environmental coordinators injuries and illnesses occurred at Premier Farnell RoHS legislation.
Farnell InOne worked with BSI with these materials.
Specic programmes facilities worldwide was 0.84 injuries per 100,000 in the development of the RoHS Trusted Kitemark.
included training for Newark InOne chemical hours worked.
Our goal was to have a rate product procurers on the need to properly 50 per cent or less than the average for our Additional actions planned in 2006 to classify chemical products before including them industry.
Our industry average was 1.62 injuries manage environmental concerns in our product range and programmes aimed at per 100,000 hours worked, putting us at We will take six additional actions in 2006 to all MDD personnel on the RoHS and WEEE 52 per cent of the industry average.
manage environmental concerns and reduce legislation.
Several programmes are currently environmental impacts: The Groups occupational injury and illness rate being upgraded to Flash format to make them is compared to occupational injury and illness easier and faster to use.
1 We intend to continue to roll-out our green rates for other industry segments as compiled facility programme across the Group and Target: To implement safety training in the UK and published by the US Department of Labor, target the achievement of green status at two as part of the induction process for all new Bureau of Labor Statistics for 2004 being the additional facilities this year.
employees, temporary staff and colleagues on latest statistics available.
Refresher training will also be 2 We plan to achieve ISO 14001 status at one Target: To ensure that employees at all Group provided in first aid, forklift truck use, ergonomic additional facility not yet accredited.
business units are aware of and begin utilising lifting and awareness of hazardous materials.
3 Energy audits were recently conducted at the safety and environmental training and Essential re safety training will be provided for Akron Brass, MCM and TPC Wire & Cable compliance materials provided on the Groups re wardens and risk assessment training for all facilities in the US and Farnell InOne, new OnLine Learning Centre.
We will seek input front line managers.
BuckHickman InOne and CPC in the UK.
on what additional items we can add to meet the We plan to implement those energy saving needs of business units.
initiatives identied at each of these businesses in 2006 where the payback period is appropriate to the business.
Energy used and Total amount used Unit rate 4 We plan to increase the percentage of waste greenhouse gas 000 Total used 1000 recycled at two of our major distribution emissions 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 facilities in the UK and the US.
Type of energy used 5 We will audit paper usage at two of our major Electricity ofce facilities and set an appropriate target for KWh 33,904 35,873 38,026 42 46 50 reduction.
Natural gas 6 We will work with our paper suppliers to cubic metres 1,666 1,790 1,888` 2.1 2.3 2.5 increase the percentage of certied pulps and continue our efforts to source more Propane environmentally friendly paper stocks.
kilograms 5 55 0.006 0.007 0.006 Fuel oil litres 82 78 25 0.10 0.10 0.03 Health and safety In 2005 the rate at which workplace injuries and Petrol for company illnesses occurred at Premier Farnell facilities in cars trucks litres 671 829 886 0.8 1.1 1.2 the Americas was 0.71 injuries per 100,000 Diesel fuel litres 1,723 1,559 1,665 2 2 2 hours worked.
The rate at which injuries and illnesses occurred that resulted in missed work Petrol for rented cars time in the Americas i. e. lost-time injuries and trucks litres 1,022 1,114 975 1.26 1.43 1.28 illnesses was 0.40 per 100,000 hours worked.
2 2 Metric tonnes CO emitted Metric tonnes CO 1000 The industry averages for these rates are 1.8 and 32,397 33,898 35,373 0.040 0.044 0.046 0.9 respectively.
The estimated cost incurred by our Americas operations for injuries resulting in days away from Waste disposed Total amount 000 kg Unit rate kg per 1000 work disabling injuries in 2005 was $238,000.
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 This cost is based on a $34,000 average cost Total 2,144 2,497 2,530 2.7 3.2 3.3 per disabling injury as estimated by the USA National Safety Council.
This cost includes wage losses, medical expenses, administration Waste recycled Total amount 000 kg Unit rate kg per 1000 expenses and employment costs.
The total cost for these lost-time injuries is calculated as 115,000 applying UK estimates of 2,445 per Conversion factor used 0.612 kg CO2 KWh equals USA 1998-99 average per US Dept.
of Energy Reference: http: www.
gov cneaf electricity page CO2 report CO2emiss.
pdf occurrence, based on Health and Safety Assumed 10.5 kilometres litre of gasoline consumed.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 Result: All UK businesses and the Distribution Employees throughout the Group receive We remain a member of the FTSE4 Good Index Centre in Lige have structured induction feedback on their performance.
The annual of Corporate and Social Responsibility.
We are training for all new employees, for temporary Group Performance Review Process claries also among a small number of companies employees, colleagues on secondment and for responsibilities and objectives and addresses that have participated in the Business in the any sub-contractors or contractors who may employees development needs.
Environment survey of Corporate Environmental be working on Company premises.
Engagement every year since its inception and In 2005 6 the Group continued its investment in shown continual progress, increasing our overall training, in particular through the use of the Additional actions planned in 2006 to score by seven per cent in the latest survey.
Premier Farnell On Line Learning Centre which prevent injuries and minimise absenteeism has the capability to deliver eLearning to 4,000 1 We will continue to monitor the number of Audit of this report users across the Group.
There has been a workplace injuries and illnesses that occur at As part of the process of ensuring that we have particular focus on training large numbers of staff our facilities in 2006.
We will also monitor the robust data as a reference point, our Internal in the wider application of quality and efficiency number of lost-time injuries and illnesses as Audit Department have assessed the processes techniques and on the implications of the they directly affect our productivity and used to collect and collate the information RoHS legislation.
Our goal in 2006 is to achieve and contained in the Corporate Responsibility maintain both workplace and lost-time injury The Group joined Business in the Community in section of the Operating and Financial Review and illness rates that are less than 50 per cent 2005 and for the first time we have participated and their proposals for improvement have been of the averages for our industry.
in the Business in the Community Corporate implemented.
The Internal Audit department Responsibility Index.
The Group has also have also carried out a review of the key data 2 We will monitor the rates and causes of achieved the Per Cent Standard, which presented in this years report.
employee absenteeism and take actions to recognises that it has made contributions to achieve reductions in these rates.
good causes with a value equal to one per cent 3 After the very successful implementation of a of the Groups pre-tax profits.
behaviour-based safety programme using The Group policy on charitable giving has external consultants, at our facility in encouraged employees to seek the Groups Springboro, Ohio, we have created our own support for their good causes and the budget of Safety STAR Safety Through Accountability 20,000 has been fully utilised.
and Recognition programme that applies similar principles.
We plan that at least one A number of employee volunteering programmes major facility will implement the programme in have been initiated with Leeds Cares.
Team 2006. challenges in a local school and a local park were completed successfully and a number of 4 In the UK and Europe each major business employees have come forward to participate in has been set targets for accident and safety the education initiatives organised by Leeds performance.
These targets are to be Cares, mentoring young people and helping managed through continuing training primary age children with literacy.
programmes at all levels of the business and through managed themes where we have In the US, all of the Groups businesses identied areas of concern, for example participate in United Way, a community-based manual handling, stock and storage disciplines umbrella organisation supporting various human and use of handling equipment.
Group employees programmes will be controlled at First Line have taken leadership roles in United Ways The Operating and Financial Review is prepared Manager level.
First Line Managers will have fundraising activities and have also been active in for and addressed only to the Companys responsibility for results in their own areas and raising money for the American Cancer Society shareholders as a whole and to no other person.
this will be reected in their personal and for the American Red Cross Katrina Its purpose is to provide a balanced and performance objectives.
comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the Group during Marketplace Targets for 2006 the year under review and the position of the Targets for 2006 1 Maintain our inclusion in the Per Cent Group at the end of the year, consistent with the 1 We will select an appropriate number of Standard.
size and complexity of the Groups business.
suppliers with whom we will engage to 2 Achieve an improvement in our score in the Statements contained in this Review are based understand and, if appropriate, inuence their on the knowledge and information available to Business in the Community Corporate approach to corporate responsibility.
the Companys Directors at the date it was prepared and therefore the facts stated and 2 We will develop a supplier policy based on independent ethical trading guidelines.
Awards and achievements views expressed may change after that date.
To the extent that this Review contains any We are delighted to report that the US National Workplace and community Safety Council again presented its Green Cross statement dealing with any time after the date of its preparation such statement is merely Our aim is to be recognised by existing and for Safety Excellence Achievement Awards to potential future employees as a responsible five Premier Farnell companies.
These awards predictive and speculative as it relates to events and circumstances that are yet to occur.
The employer that values its people and provides an recognised exemplary safety records at Newark environment in which they can develop their skills InOne, MCM, Akron Brass, TPC Wire & Cable Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements after the date of and make a contribution to the success of the and Cadillac Electric sites.
In addition, the US business.
We also wish to make a contribution to National Safety Council awarded our Cadillac this Review, but such statements will be reconsidered in the preparation of the next the communities in which we operate, building Electric Division its Industry Leader award for goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour best performance in an industrial category.
