05 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Operating and Introduction financial review Reed Elsevier is a world leading publisher and information provider.
The principal operations are in North America and Europe and comprise science, medical, legal, education and business publishing.
Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2006 were 5,398m.
Elsevier is a world leading provider of scientific, Reed Elsevier is well positioned in markets with attractive technical and medical information and solutions growth prospects and has a clear investment led growth strategy focused on building revenue momentum across all our businesses.
Long term growth in our markets is expected to be sustained by the continuing demand for professional information.
In addition, professionals are looking for significant improvements in productivity through access LexisNexis is a global provider of authoritative legal, tax, regulatory, public records, news and to highly functional online services and associated business information and workflow solutions workflow solutions.
Following a detailed review, Reed Elsevier has sharpened its strategic focus to best capitalise on the growing digital opportunities in its markets.
Reed Elsevier will derive the best returns on its brand franchises and digital investments by focusing on the science, medical, legal and business markets.
Harcourt Education is a leading publisher serving Accordingly, Reed Elsevier has announced the planned the pre-Kindergarten to Grade 12 schools and assessment markets in the US and internationally sale of the Harcourt Education division.
Forward looking statements The Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act 1934, as amended.
Reed Business is a leading global business-toThese statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual business publisher and exhibition organiser results and events could differ materially from those currently being anticipated as reflected in such forward looking statements.
The terms expect, should be, will be, and similar expressions identify forward looking statements.
Factors which may cause future outcomes to differ from those foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions and business conditions in Reed Elseviers markets: exchange rate fluctuations: customers acceptance of its products and services: the actions of competitors: legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments: changes in law and legal interpretation affecting Reed Elseviers intellectual property rights and internet communications: and the impact of technological change.
06 Operating and financial review Reed Elsevier is well positioned in markets with Strategy attractive growth prospects and has a clear investment led strategy built around four priorities, closely linked to financial strategy Deliver authoritative content through leading brands.
Reed Elsevier delivers Revenue by division authoritative, and to a great extent proprietary, content of the highest quality Elsevier 28% through market leading brands.
In its publications and services Reed Elseviers LexisNexis 29% professional customers find the essential data, analysis and commentary to support Harcourt Education 17% their decisions.
Editorial investment and selective acquisitions are generating new Reed Business 26% sources of content to widen the product offering to customers, and to expand into new segments and geographic regions.
As online information sources increase, Reed Elseviers trusted leadership brands play an ever more vital role.
Over the last five years digital revenues have built to 2.0bn or 37% of total revenues.
Authoritative information, technology enabled and increasingly integrated into customer workflows, is making Reed Elseviers customers more effective professionally and making Reed Elsevier a more valued partner.
As Reed Elseviers customers and core markets rapidly migrate online, there are Revenue by source opportunities to leverage its leadership brands and authoritative proprietary Subscriptions 39% content.
Digital technology enables Reed Elsevier to move up the value chain with Circulation 32% its customers by providing a range of innovative solution orientated products that Advertising 13% Exhibitions 10% become embedded in their workflow.
This will play a major part in Reed Elseviers Other 6% strategy going forward.
Digital growth and an increasingly synergistic portfolio provide opportunities to further leverage scale and commonalities across the business, sharing skill sets, resources and collective experience.
Substantial cost savings have been made over the last five years, and there are further opportunities across the supply chain and in technology and infrastructure to continue this progress.
Improving cost efficiency remains a fundamental feature of Reed Elsevier.
In addition to significant internal investment, Revenue by media Reed Elsevier will continue to allocate capital and resources to pursue selective acquisition opportunities that accelerate its strategy and overall business progress.
Print 53% Online 37% Reed Elsevier has spent 1.6bn on acquisitions over the last five years, focused on Exhibitions 10% strong brands and proprietary content, customer workflow solutions, leading technologies and expansion into attractive adjacent markets, most notably in legal solutions, risk management, health and e-business.
Financial strategy Reed Elsevier expects progress in the development of its digital business to deliver good revenue growth and, with improvements in cost efficiency and organisational effectiveness, this will flow through at a higher rate to operating profitability.
Additional financial benefits are delivered through leverage and fiscal efficiency.
With an increasing and substantial portion of the revenues being delivered by subscription based products and the trend to longer term contracts, Reed Elsevier will be a more consistent business.
Reed Elsevier aims to distribute 70-80% of free cash flow through dividends and share buybacks.
The balance will be invested in the business, mainly through acquisitions, so maintaining capital efficiency aligned to its strategy.
Reed Elseviers capital will be invested in growth areas which will make sustainable returns in excess of the risk adjusted cost of capital.
Reed Elsevier aims to maintain its credit rating in order to take advantage of opportunities within its markets and access the cheapest sources of borrowing.
This business and financial strategy is directed at delivering good revenue growth, continuous margin improvement, strong cash generation and growing returns on capital.
These are targeted to deliver consistent adjusted earnings per share growth of a minimum 10% annually at constant currencies.
Our incentive programmes are designed in support of these strategies and in creating shareholder value.
Reed Elsevier 2005 Introduction 7 07 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Elsevier provides its customers with scientific, technical Description of business and medical content and tools that improve productivity in research, healthcare and health education create innovative workflow tools to clinical reference and decision support Elsevier improve their efficiency in using that products include MD Consult, which Elsevier provides its customers with information.
Each year Science & now has over 7.5 million page views per scientific, technical and medical content Technology publishes over 170,000 new month and more than 1,700 institutional and tools that improve productivity in research articles in some 1,200 journals customers.
Health Sciences provides research, healthcare and health and over 1,000 new book titles, as well online and multimedia products for use education.
Total revenues for the as secondary material in the form of by both medical faculties and students year ended 31 December 2006 were supporting bibliographic data, indexes to support core textbooks, including 1,521m.
Elsevier is a global business and abstracts, and tertiary information Evolve, which now has more than with principal operations located in in the form of review and reference 700,000 registered users and, through Amsterdam, London, Oxford, New York, works.
Its flagship electronic product, the acquisition of Health Education Philadelphia, St Louis, San Francisco, ScienceDirect, is the worlds largest Systems Inc diagnostic tests for nursing Paris, Munich, Madrid, Singapore, Tokyo database of journal articles and is and allied health markets.
accessed by over 10 million users Internationally, Elsevier leverages its each year.
ScienceDirect holds over print and online content into new Elsevier portfolio 8 million scientific articles and an markets through foreign language expanding portfolio of books online, versions.
S&T electronic journals which currently includes 55 major S&T print reference works, 151 book series and Elsevier aims to make valued journals and books seven handbooks in 170 volumes.
contributions to the science and health S&T databases andsoftware communities by combining world class Health Sciences content with productivity enhancing North America ScienceDirect online usage Health Sciences solutions for scientific researchers and International health professionals worldwide.
Its key 300 strategic areas of focus are: quality of 250 content: customer service and customer relations: development of 200 productivity enhancing online solutions: 150 expanded penetration of high growth Elsevier serves a global network of markets: and organisational efficiency.
100 7,000 editors, 70,000 editorial board members, 200,000 referees, and more 50 than 500,000 authors.
Its products 0 reach more than 10 million researchers 02 03 04 05 06 in 4,500 institutions, 5 million students, Full text article downloads millions and 15 million doctors, nurses and health professionals.
Elseviers growing online offerings also include Scopus, an abstract and index Growth in the scientific information database and navigational tool, which market is driven by increases in now has nearly 30 million abstracts of research output, R&D spend, the scientific research articles from 15,000 number of researchers worldwide, and peer reviewed publications, over 15 the need for improved research million patents, and references to over efficiency.
In healthcare, growth is 200 million web pages.
driven by advances in medical science and the shift from activity-based to The Health Sciences division of Elsevier outcomes-based models of patient care serves medical researchers, practising and associated demands for increased professionals, educators and students productivity.
It publishes over 700 journals, including a number of journals for The Science & Technology division learned societies, and over 2,000 book of Elsevier is the worlds leading global titles and clinical reference works academic journal publisher.
Growth in electronic health customers are the worlds libraries, information is accelerating and the Scopus The worlds largest abstract and scientists and professionals, who rely business continues to expand its portfolio citation database of scientific research, Scopus on Elsevier to provide high quality of online health information tools for indexes the bibliographic information of 15,000 content, to review, publish, disseminate, education, practitioner reference, and titles from 4,000 different publishers and covers and preserve research findings, and to point of care decision making.
08 Operating and financial review LexisNexis provides legal, tax, regulatory, risk Description of business management, information analytics and business continued information solutions aligned to the workflow of professional, business and government customers internationally Elseviers print science journals are Increasingly legal information and worldwide, a suite of business generally sold to libraries on a paid services are being delivered online, with intelligence tools that help lawyers find subscription basis, with subscription considerable potential to deliver such and target clients, and customer agents facilitating the administrative products and solutions in markets relationship management workflow process.
Medical and healthcare print outside the United States where online tools.
In Research, the division provides journals are mostly sold to individuals migration is at significantly lower levels statutes and case law for all 50 US through direct mail and learned than in the US legal market.
In recent states as well as research, analysis and societies.
Electronic products are years, LexisNexis has, with its citation services from Matthew Bender, generally sold directly to libraries, comprehensive US public records Michie and Shepards.
Practice hospitals, corporations and end users.
databases, expanded in the market for Management solutions include time Books are sold through book stores, risk management and information and billing, case management, cost both traditional and online, wholesalers analytics.
This is growing rapidly due to recovery and document management.
and, particularly in medical and increasing consumer credit losses and Litigation Services include a range of healthcare markets, directly to end fraud and the demand for identity workflow solutions for litigators users.
Competition within the science verification.
including electronic discovery, evidence and technology and medical publishing management, case analysis, court fields is generally on a title by title and LexisNexis in the United States offers docket tracking, e-filing, expert product by product basis.
Competing legal information products in electronic identification and legal document journals, books and databases are and print formats to law firms and preparation.
typically published by learned societies practitioners, law schools, corporate and other professional publishers.
and tax counsel and federal, state and The Corporate and Public Markets local governments.
Headquartered in division offers LexisNexis products New York, the principal operations are and services to corporations, federal LexisNexis located in Ohio, New York, Colorado, government agencies and academic LexisNexis provides legal, tax, New Jersey and Florida.
institutions together with news, regulatory, risk management, business, financial and public records content.
Its risk management and information analytics and business Total information solutions aligned to the Solutions information analytics applications workflow of professional, business and are designed to assist customers in Client Practice government customers internationally.
managing risk through fraud detection Development Management and prevention, identity verification, Total revenues for the year ended Risk Research Litigation 31 December 2006 were 1,570m.
Management pre-employment screening and due diligence.
LexisNexis portfolio Primary and Secondary Legal US Legal Markets US Corporate and News and Business Public Markets International Public Records Company and people information LexisNexis Total Solutions help legal and other professionals achieve excellence with products and solutions in Client Development, Research, Practice Management, Litigation Services, Risk Management and Information Analytics.
US Legal Markets Total Solutions help Legal and regulatory markets legal professionals achieve excellence worldwide are seeing continuing in the business and practice of law with Lexis.
com provides an integrated set of legal growth driven by the increasing level products and solutions in Client research tools including legal, news, business of legislation and litigation, as well Development, Research, Practice and public records content.
as the increasing number of lawyers.
Additional opportunities are also Client Development solutions include Outside the United States, LexisNexis developing beyond the core research the Martindale Hubbell electronic International serves markets in Europe, market, through the delivery of value network that showcases the Canada, Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin added solutions to meet demands for qualifications and credentials of over America with a range of local and greater legal efficiency and productivity.
one million lawyers and law firms international legal, tax, regulatory and Content Content 09 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Growth in Harcourt Educations markets is driven by long standing commitments to improve educational standards business information in electronic and require sustained investment in proven and research psychologists.
The most significant educational programmes.
In recent educational testing, it provides a range businesses are in the UK and France.
years, there has also been further of achievement, aptitude and guidance emphasis on the measurement of the testing services for measuring student LexisNexis aims to be the leading educational results of students, both progress.
It is well known for the provider of productivity enhancing to monitor and assist improvement in Stanford Achievement Test, now in its information and information-based individual educational outcomes and to 10th edition.
In clinical testing, it provides workflow solutions in its markets.
Overall funding psychologists with assessment tests The key strategic areas of focus are: for education is expected to continue for many aspects of human behaviour, to expand the business from research to increase.
The into Total Solutions: to grow a significant Wechsler products, including the business in risk management and In the United States, Harcourt School Wechsler Preschool and Primary information analytics: to expand Publishers is a publisher of print and Scale of Intelligence, are licensed for internationally through innovative technology enabled instructional publication in over 30 countries.
online products and solutions: and to materials for students in kindergarten to continuously improve cost effectiveness.
Holt, Rinehart and Winston Outside the United States, Harcourt offers educational textbooks and related Education International is a provider LexisNexiss principal competitor in US instructional materials for students of textbooks and related instructional legal markets is West The Thomson in middle and secondary schools.
materials to the UK primary, secondary Corporation, while the principal The major customers of Harcourt and vocational schools and college competitors in US corporate and public Educations US schools publishing markets through the Heinemann, Rigby markets are West, Factiva Dow Jones businesses are state boards of education and Ginn imprints and other English and Choicepoint.
Major international and local district and school boards.
language markets in Australia, New competitors include The Thomson Zealand and southern Africa.
Corporation, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
Of the 50 US states, 20 periodically purchase educational programmes through an adoption process.
This Harcourt Education process entails state education Harcourt Education publishes school committees approving a shortlist of textbooks and related instructional education materials from which school districts can purchase.
The remaining and assessment materials, principally in the United States, the United 30 states without an adoption process, Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and known as open territories, allow southern Africa.
Headquartered in individual school districts to purchase any educational programmes.
New York, the principal operating locations are in Florida, Texas and Oxford.
Total revenues for the year Harcourt Education has achieved ended 31 December 2006 were 889m.
strong market performances in recent years both in the adoption states and Saxon Math The Saxon Math series for US Harcourt portfolio open territories based on strong schools grades K-12 provides an incremental curriculum product in key subjects US elementary approach to instruction that delivers US secondary such as reading and literature, science measurable student improvement as US supplemental and health and elementary maths and Assessment shown by years of research.
Harcourt Education aims to be the Harcourt Achieve is a publisher leading provider of educational resources of supplemental school and adult to improve student performance.
The key education materials as well as providing strategic areas of focus are: to sustain professional development services high quality, effective product through for teachers.
Greenwood-Heinemann strong editorial processes in new publishes monograph and reference lists publishing and continuous innovation: to and professional resources for teachers.
expand online teaching and assessment resources: to deepen customer Growth in Harcourt Educations markets Harcourt Assessment develops relationships to become the provider assessment products and services of choice of customised solutions: and is driven by long standing commitments to improve educational standards.
for elementary, secondary and higher to improve cost effectiveness through Such commitments remain strong and education as well as tests for practising further upgrade of organisational 10 Operating and financial review Business to business magazines and community websites Description of business provide an effective marketing channel through which continued advertisers reach their target audiences.
Reed Exhibitions organises trade exhibitions and conferences internationally, with 460 events in 38 countries capabilities, investment in technology Gazette, Flight International and New range of sectors including IT, and cost reduction.
Scientist in the United Kingdom: and manufacturing, aerospace, leisure, Elsevier and FEM in the Netherlands.
electronics, food and hospitality, travel The principal competitors of Harcourt Reed Business Information also and entertainment.
Increasingly Reed Education are Pearson, McGraw Hill publishes directories in selected Exhibitions is also developing online and HM Riverdeep.
Through its Reed Construction services to increase the effectiveness Data business, it provides nationwide and efficiency of its trade shows.
coverage of construction project Reed Business information for the United States.
Reed Business aims to be the first Reed Business provides information choice of business professionals for In the majority of Reed Business information and decision support in its and marketing solutions to business professionals in the United States, the Informations sectors, strong demand is individual markets and for marketing United Kingdom, continental Europe, being seen for online services.
Its key strategic areas of focus Australia and Asia.
The division Business Information has been are: to continue to grow rapidly existing particularly successful in developing and new online products and services in also organises trade exhibitions internationally.
Total revenues for online products and services, which have key markets: to continue to develop the year ended 31 December 2006 been growing at over 20% per annum print franchises through brand were 1,418m.
and now account for 24% of Reed extensions and redesign: to further Business Information revenues.
These upgrade the portfolio through Reed Business portfolio products include totaljobs.
com, a major investment, acquisition and divestment: online recruitment site in the UK: ICISto expand geographically in fast growing B2B magazines B2B online LOR, a global information and pricing markets: and to continuously improve Exhibitions service for the petrochemicals sector: organisational effectiveness through zibb.
nl, a business information service in investment in people, further the Netherlands: and Kellysearch.
com, development of online competencies, an industrial search engine which is and cost reduction programmes.
RBI online revenue 24% 19% 15% Business to business magazines and 11% community websites provide an 9% effective marketing channel through which advertisers reach their target audiences, increasingly delivered through leading brands in each sector.
02 03 04 05 06 Alongside print magazines, demand is growing for online products which Online revenue as percentage of RBI revenue provide improvements in productivity through quicker and easier access to Business to business magazines are more comprehensive and searchable primarily distributed on a controlled totaljobs.
com is the UKs leading commercial data.
Business to business marketing circulation basis in the United States, recruitment website, attracting nearly 2 million spend has been driven historically by whereby the product is delivered without unique jobseekers every month.
With over 100,000 levels of corporate profitability, which charge to qualified buyers within a vacancies at any one time, totaljobs.
com is one of itself has followed overall growth in targeted industry group based on the UKs fastest growing online recruitment GDP and business investment.
circulation lists developed and businesses.
Magazines Reed Business Information publishes Reed Exhibitions organises trade distributed on this basis are wholly over 400 trade magazines, directories, exhibitions and conferences dependent on advertising for their newsletters and loose leaf publications, internationally, with 460 events in revenues.
In the United Kingdom, and over 200 websites and online 38 countries, attracting over 90,000 business magazines are distributed services.
Important magazine titles exhibitors and more than six million both on a controlled circulation basis include Variety and Interior Design in the visitors annually.
Its exhibitions and a paid circulation basis.
In the United States: Computer Weekly, Estates and conferences encompass a wide Netherlands, a higher proportion of 11 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Resources and investment publications is sold by paid circulation.
Reed Elseviers most important maintained market leading positions Distribution of magazines is conducted resources are its intangible publishing for over fifty years.
The Stanford primarily through national postal assets and its workforce of some Achievement Test Series is the services, supplemented by news-stand 36,800 employees.
most widely recognised educational sales through unaffiliated wholesalers.
achievement test in the United States.
Online products and services are Market leading brands generally sold through dedicated sales Reed Elseviers businesses own Reed Businesss well known magazine forces and intermediaries, including numerous market leading brands, titles such as Variety, Estates Gazette revenue sharing arrangements with imprints, titles and technology platforms.
and Elsevier are widely read for other online service providers, and by their authoritative content and up direct promotion.
Exhibition space is Within Elsevier, ScienceDirect is the to date industry intelligence, while sold through industry specific and worlds largest full text online scientific many of the Reed Exhibitions shows, national sales teams.
Many of Elseviers which include World Travel Market, Mipim, MIDEM, Batimat and the journals are the foremost publications Reed Business Informations titles in their field and a primary point of PGA Merchandise Show, are compete with a number of publishers on reference for new research.
The Lancet acknowledged as the premier a title by title basis in individual market has been publishing medical research, marketing events in their field.
sectors, the largest competitors being: news and analysis since 1823.
Similarly, Advanstar, CMP Media United Business Elseviers booklist contains numerous Media, Hanley Wood, McGraw Hill, pre-eminent and long standing titles.
Prism and Nielsen in the United States: EMAP Business Communications, Nielsen and CMP Media in the United Kingdom: and Wolters Kluwer and Nielsen in the Netherlands.
Reed Business Information competes for online advertising with other businessto-business websites as well as Google and other search engines.
Competition in trade exhibitions and conferences is Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events very fragmented.
With over 460 events in 2006, it brought States, the main competitor is Nielsen.
together over six million industry professionals Outside the United States, competition from around the world.
comes primarily from industry focused trade associations and convention centre and exhibition hall owners.
Investment Reed Elsevier maintains and enhances the value of its intangible assets through continuous investment in the The Lancet is a leading independent and authoritative journal in global medicine.
It was brands and imprints, new publishing, first published in 1823. innovative product and market development, and in the technology Within LexisNexis, lexis.
com is platforms and publishing infrastructure recognised as one of the foremost on which they are based.
Increasingly, investment is being made in developing online research tools for practising lawyers, providing subscribers with digital workflow solutions.
access to 5 billion searchable documents.
The Shepards Citations Within Elsevier, the most significant Service is a well known and highly investments in recent years have been reputed reference resource in the ScienceDirect platform, Shepardizing is a common process digitisation of the archive of over for US lawyers checking the authority 8 million research articles, and in the of cases or statutory references.
Other significant areas of investment have been in new Many of the Harcourt Education brands online clinical reference tools and other Variety is the entertainment and media e-health products and in online editorial and imprints, including Harcourt School industrys premier source of news and analysis.
The Chinese edition is published biweekly.
and Holt, Rinehart & Winston have and production systems.
12 Operating and financial review Reed Elseviers most important resources are its Resources intangible publishing assets and its workforce and investment of 36,800 employees continued In LexisNexis, substantial investment Workforce Reed Elseviers remuneration policies has been made in Total Solutions Reed Elseviers workforce is highly are designed to attract, retain and offerings such as Total Litigator and motivate employees of the highest skilled and a large proportion are Total Practice Advantage.
We employ some 6,000 calibre and experience needed to shape this, major investments have been IT specialists and developers, and execute strategy.
The remuneration made in technology, in particular in 8,000 editorial staff, and some 12,000 packages of the directors and senior online research functionalities and in executives comprise a balance between specialist marketing, sales and the development of the global online customer service staff.
Reed Elsevier fixed remuneration and variable delivery platform.
These investments aims to be an employer of choice, performance related incentives, are critical to providing integrated known for its best practices in including a variable annual cash bonus workflow solutions to our customers.
based on achievement of financial recruiting and developing employees.
Significant investment has also been performance measures and individual made in new content development We seek to employ a workforce which key performance objectives, and longer and in expanded sales and marketing term incentive schemes.
Pension reflects the diversity of our customers activities.
A major second data centre scheme membership is offered to all and communities.
Our labour and expanded operational capabilities and employment practices are consistent employees in the United Kingdom, the provides greater flexibility in continuous with the principles of the United Netherlands, the United States and delivery.
Nations Global Compact regarding fair and non-discriminatory labour Harcourt Education maintains practices.
Every two years or so we significant and expanding investment in conduct a global employee opinion new educational textbook programmes survey to identify areas for and online technology resources, and improvement.
Every employee in the has continued to develop its classroom company takes part in the annual based online assessment product and Personal Development Programme, the Unison scoring, administration and which reviews skills and performance reporting platform.
and identifies opportunities for recognition and advancement.
The Within Reed Business, the focus has Personal Development Programme been on developing new online products is also the primary tool for assessing and services, including webzines, and planning employee training.
recruitment sites, search and subscription information and data Workforce services.
Ongoing investment includes Editorial the international expansion of the Sales, marketing andcustomer service Kellysearch online industrial search Information Technology engine and the continuing development Administration of the successful totaljobs.
com online andother recruitment website together with investment in the enabling infrastructure for all these web services.
Reed Exhibitions has continued to expand its portfolio through new launches and geographical expansion.
These investments are largely embedded within the cost base of the businesses as new product development and market initiatives are a continuous activity.
13 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 The key risks facing Reed Elsevier arise from the highly Risks competitive and rapidly changing nature of our markets The key risks facing Reed Elsevier Our products and services are Further details on risk management arise from the highly competitive and largely comprised of intellectual and internal control procedures are set rapidly changing nature of our markets, property content delivered through out in the Structure and Corporate the increasingly technological nature a variety of media.
We rely on Governance report on pages 26 to 31. of our products and services, the trademark, copyright, patent and international nature of our operations, other intellectual property laws to We recognise that Reed Elsevier and and legal and regulatory uncertainties.
establish and protect our proprietary its businesses have a direct impact on Certain businesses are also affected rights in these products and the environment, principally through by the impact on publicly funded services.
However, there is a risk the use of energy and water and waste customers of changes in funding and that our proprietary rights could generation and in our supply chain by cyclical pressures on advertising be challenged, limited, invalidated through paper use and print and and promotional spending.
We are Elsevier has an established risk committed to reducing these impacts, management procedure that is We operate a number of pension whenever possible, by limiting resource embedded into the operations of schemes around the world, the use and by efficiently employing the businesses and is reviewed by largest schemes being of the sustainable materials and technologies.
the Boards and Audit Committees.
defined benefit type in the UK, the We require our suppliers and Important specific risks that have US and the Netherlands.
The assets contractors to meet the same been identified and are being and obligations associated with objectives.
We seek to ensure that Reed addressed include: defined benefit pension schemes Elseviers businesses are compliant are particularly sensitive to changes with all relevant environmental Reed Elseviers businesses are in the market values of assets and legislation and, accordingly, whilst dependent on the continued the market related assumptions environmental issues are important, acceptance by our customers of our used to value scheme liabilities.
we do not consider that they constitute products and services and the prices a significant risk for Reed Elsevier.
We cannot Our businesses operate in over predict whether there will be changes 100 locations worldwide and our in the future which will affect the earnings are subject to taxation in acceptability of products, services many differing jurisdictions and at and prices to our customers.
We seek to organise our affairs in a tax efficient manner, We are investing significant amounts taking account of the jurisdictions to develop and promote electronic in which we operate.
However, tax products and platforms.
The provision laws that apply to Reed Elsevier of these products and services is very businesses may be amended by competitive and is to some extent the relevant authorities.
Such subject to factors outside our control amendments, or their application such as competition from new to Reed Elsevier businesses, could technologies and changes in adversely affect our reported results.
There is no assurance that this investment will produce The Reed Elsevier combined financial satisfactory long term returns.
statements are expressed in pounds sterling and are, therefore, subject to Reed Elseviers businesses are movements in exchange rates on the increasingly dependent on electronic translation of the financial information platforms and networks, primarily of businesses whose operational the internet, for delivery of products currencies are other than sterling.
Although plans and The United States is our most procedures are in place to reduce important market and, accordingly, such risks, our businesses could be significant fluctuations in the US dollar adversely affected if their electronic exchange rate could significantly delivery platforms and networks affect our reported results.
experience a significant failure, interruption, or security breach.
14 Operating and financial review Change at Operating review 2006 2005 constant Reed Elsevier combined businesses m m currencies Revenue Elsevier 1,521 1,436 8% LexisNexis 1,570 1,466 8% Harcourt Education 889 901 0% Reed Business 1,418 1,363 5% Total 5,398 5,166 6% Revenue m Adjusted operating profit Elsevier 465 449 10% LexisNexis 380 338 13% 5,398 5,166 Harcourt Education 129 161 -19% Reed Business 241 214 14% Unallocated items 5 20 Total 1,210 1,142 9% 6% at constant currencies Divisional performance summary 05 06 Elsevier delivered revenues and adjusted operating profits ahead 8% and 10% respectively at constant currencies, or 5% and 8% before acquisitions and Adjusted operating profit m disposals.
Growth was driven by strong subscription renewals and widening distribution of its scientific and medical journals and databases, as well as new online product sales and a successful book publishing programme.
In Health, 1,210 our market strategies in electronic health information services are accelerating 1,142 through the launch of electronic reference materials, medical education resources, and specialist information services and workflow tools to enhance the efficacy of clinical diagnosis and treatment.
9% LexisNexis saw revenues and adjusted operating profits up 8% and 13% respectively at constant currencies, or 7% and 13% before acquisitions.
at constant Subscription renewals were strong, good growth was seen in new sales of its currencies online information solutions both in the US and internationally, and in the Risk 05 06 Information and Analytics business.
The Total Solutions strategy launched in the year has gained good traction in the market, focused on the distinctive needs of lawyers across major areas of their workflow.
In Risk Information and Analytics, the Seisint business saw strong revenue growth and delivered a 10% post tax return in only its second full year of ownership.
Harcourt Education held revenues flat at constant currencies despite a weaker market.
Adjusted underlying operating profits were 20% lower, largely reflecting investment ahead of the much stronger 2007 state textbook adoption market and the significant impact of underperformance and contract cost overruns in Assessment.
Harcourts US basal and supplemental businesses performed well to grow revenues 1% against a textbook market estimated to be down 6%.
Harcourt won the leading share, at 38%, in the new state textbook adoptions in which it participated and the supplemental business saw a good market response to its new publishing.
Reed Business revenues and adjusted operating profits were up 5% and 14% respectively at constant currencies, both in total and underlying.
The online information services grew at over 20%, more than compensating for print migration, and the Exhibition business performed strongly.
Reed Business has grown its digital revenues to $400m over the last five years almost entirely through Adjusted figures and constant currency growth organic investment and new product launches, leveraging its brands, content and rates are used by Reed Elsevier as additional performance measures and are defined on market positions.
With 24% of the revenues of the magazines and information page 25.
Unless otherwise indicated, all businesses now from online services, the overall growth trajectory is encouraging.
percentage movements in the operating review refer to performance at constant exchange rates.
Reported figures are reconciled to the adjusted figures in the notes to the combined financial statements.
Unallocated items comprise corporate costs, return on pension scheme assets and interest on pension scheme liabilities.
15 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Elsevier had strong subscription renewals, widening Elsevier distribution of its scientific and medical journals and www.
com databases, growing new online product sales and a successful book publishing programme Change at 2006 2005 constant m m currencies Revenue growth % Revenue Science & Technology 792 785 4% Health Sciences 729 651 13% 3 -2 1,521 1,436 8% Adjusted operating profit 465 449 10% 6 5 Adjusted operating margin 30.6% 31.3% 0.7pts Revenues and adjusted operating journal publishing.
Online revenues are profits were ahead 8% and 10% growing rapidly, up 37% in total, as the Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported respectively at constant currencies, medical community increasingly adopts Disposals or 5% and 8% before acquisitions and online information services to drive disposals.
Underlying operating productivity and enhance outcomes.
margins were 0.9 percentage points The year saw increasing penetration Adjusted operating profit growth % ahead before acquisition and currency of the ScienceDirect and MDConsult effects, driven by revenue growth, products and further launches made 2 -6 stabilising investment levels and and planned of electronic reference 8 further supply chain efficiency.
materials, medical education resources, and specialist information services The Science & Technology business and workflow tools.
4 saw organic revenue growth of 5% at constant currencies reflecting strong The integration of the MediMedia MAP journal subscription renewals, at 97%, businesses acquired in August 2005 widening distribution through an is now complete, with revenue growth Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported expanded sales force, and good growth initiatives building momentum and Disposals in online databases.
ScienceDirect adjusted operating margins improved usage continues to grow at over 20% significantly.
The acquisition in May of and e-only contracts now account for the Gold Standard drug information 45% of journal subscription revenues.
database and related products is The Scopus abstract and indexing accelerating our market strategies in database has been well received in the electronic health information services market and is seeing good conversion to enhance the efficacy of clinical of trials into firm contracts.
In December, the Endeavor software business was Early in the year, the Science & sold following a reappraisal of its Technology business was reorganised position within Elseviers overall Netter A new 4th edition Netters Atlas of into a more market-focused market strategies.
Human Anatomy was published in June 2006.
It organisation, to better serve large contains over 940 illustrations of the human body academic and government institutions At reported exchange rates, adjusted with unsurpassed clarity and accuracy.
as well as to focus more directly on operating margins were 0.7 percentage smaller and mid sized institutions, points lower largely reflecting the low, the corporate sector, and societies and but rapidly improving, margins of the individuals.
Customer satisfaction scores MediMedia acquisition made in 2005 have significantly improved during as well as the impact of the rolling the year as a result of the sustained three year currency hedging programme to improve service levels, programme as the US dollar decline and new products and marketing over the last few years works its way strategies are being developed for through the hedge rates.
The outlook for Elsevier is positive.
In Health Sciences, revenue growth Subscription renewals are strong, was 13% at constant currencies, or customer satisfaction is improving, our 6% underlying.
Strong growth was publishing programmes are expanding, seen in the nursing and allied health new electronic product is developing professional sectors and in new society well, and distribution is widening.
16 Operating and financial review LexisNexis saw strong subscription renewals, good growth LexisNexis in new sales of its online information solutions both in the www.
com US and internationally, and further good growth in risk information and analytics Change at 2006 2005 constant m m currencies Revenue growth % Revenue United States 1,129 1,061 8% International 441 405 9% 1,570 1,466 8% Adjusted operating profit 380 338 13% 1 -1 Adjusted operating margin 24.2% 23.1% 1.1pts 7 7 Revenues and adjusted operating In Corporate and Public Markets profits were up 8% and 13% organic revenue growth was 8% with Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported respectively at constant currencies, continued strengthening in online Disposals or 7% and 13% before acquisitions.
news and business information, higher This 7% organic revenue growth patent volumes and strong demand in compares with 6% in 2005 and 4% risk management.
The Seisint business Adjusted operating profit growth % in 2004 and reflects the strengthening acquired in September 2004 saw momentum in the business.
continued strong revenue growth and The adjusted operating margin was LexisNexis existing risk management 1.1 percentage points higher reflecting business has now been fully migrated 13 0 -1 the good revenue growth and tight to the Seisint technology platform.
The Seisint business delivered a 10% post tax return in only its second full In US Legal Markets, strong year of ownership, and returns subscription renewals and additional continue to grow.
online information and solutions sales Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported to both large and small firms drove The LexisNexis International business Disposals organic growth of 6%.
The Total outside the US saw underlying revenue Solutions strategy launched in the year growth of 8% driven by the growing has gained good traction in the market, demand for LexisNexis online focused on the distinctive needs of information services across its markets lawyers across four major areas of their and new publishing.
The Total Solutions workflow: litigation, client development, strategy is also being rolled out in these research and practice management.
international markets behind increasing An integrated solutions product was online penetration.
In the UK this was also launched for the risk management accelerated with the acquisition of market.
The product portfolio was Visualfiles case management and LexisNexis Total Litigator provides US expanded through organic development compliance tools.
Particularly strong litigators with a complete and integrated set and selective acquisition: Casesoft growth was seen in the UK, France, of online tools and services to assist them litigation case analysis, Dataflight Germany, Canada and South Africa.
in managing cases through each step of the online repository and tools for litigation process.
The outlook for LexisNexis is positive.
Revenue momentum is good, with strong subscription renewals, increasing take up of new online services and total solutions across our markets, and strong demand growth in risk management.
17 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Harcourt Educations basal textbook and supplemental Harcourt Education businesses performed well against a weaker education www.
com market to hold overall revenues flat.
Profits were lower through investment ahead of major adoptions and underperformance in Assessment Change at 2006 2005 constant m m currencies Revenue growth % Revenue US Schools & Testing 796 806 0% Acquisitions International 93 95 1% Underlying Currency Reported Disposals 889 901 0% 0 0 Adjusted operating profit 129 161 19% -1 -1 Adjusted operating margin 14.5% 17.9% 3.4pts Revenues at Harcourt Education were The assessment business saw revenues flat against the prior year at constant 4% lower reflecting the net loss of currencies, whilst adjusted operating state testing contracts and lower profits were 19% lower, or 20% lower catalog sales.
Operational difficulties before minor disposals.
Adjusted surrounding a major state testing operating margin was 3.4 percentage contract and knock on effects on other Adjusted operating profit growth % points lower at 14.5% largely reflecting contracts resulted in significant cost Acquisitions sales and marketing investment ahead overruns.
New management were Underlying Disposals Currency Reported of the much stronger 2007 adoption appointed in the year and organisational market, sales mix and the impact of changes made which are beginning to the underperformance in Assessment.
make a real difference to the business.
Whilst revenues are expected to decline The Harcourt US K-12 basal and further due to lost contracts, the supplemental businesses have actions taken have positioned the performed well both achieving 1% business for a recovery in performance revenue growth in a US textbook and margin this year and next.
market estimated to be down around -20 0 0 -20 6%.
The weaker market reflects the The Harcourt Education International state textbook adoption cycle and business saw revenues 1% higher.
reduced spending by elementary Strong growth in South Africa and in schools in non-adoption states partly UK export sales were offset by a weak as a result of significant prior year performance in a flat UK market.
spending on federally supported Reading First programmes.
Harcourt The outlook for Harcourt Education is won the leading market share, at 38%, positive.
The textbook adoption cycle in new state textbook adoptions in has entered a strong growth phase, Holt Online Learning Holt, Rinehart and Winston has more than 3 million registered users which it participated, with great success the new textbook programmes for 2007 of its online textbooks and programme resources.
from new publishing particularly in the are being well received in the market, More than an online copy of our print books, secondary schools market in literature and the pipeline is strong with a high these resources include dynamic and interactive and language arts, science and social level of development activity.
The new tutorials and planning and assessment tools studies.
A good market response to publishing in the supplemental for US schools grades 6-12. new publishing in the supplemental business is gaining momentum and business, and more manageable Assessment is on a firm recovery path.
backlist attrition, continues the Organisational changes in the business recovery in this business as it replaces are expected to deliver increasingly traditional supplemental product with integrated market strategies and more comprehensive intervention significant further cost efficiencies.
programmes, and reorientates sales and marketing activities from individual school to district level.
18 Operating and financial review Reed Businesss online information services grew Reed Business rapidly, more than compensating for print migration, www.
com and the exhibitions business again performed strongly Change at 2006 2005 constant m m currencies Revenue growth % Revenue Reed Business Information 896 892 1% Reed Exhibitions 522 471 12% 1,418 1,363 5% Adjusted operating profit 241 214 14% 0 -1 Adjusted operating margin 17.0% 15.7% 1.3pts 5 4 Revenues and adjusted operating In the US, RBI underlying revenues profits were 5% and 14% ahead were 2% lower.
Online revenues are Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported respectively at constant currencies, growing rapidly, particularly from Disposals with acquisitions and disposals having advertising in community sites and new no overall effect on these growth rates.
services, and are close to offsetting the Adjusted operating margins were 1.3 print decline seen across most sectors.
Adjusted operating profit growth % percentage points higher, reflecting In the UK, RBI underlying revenues the strong growth in the exhibitions were up 6% reflecting the strong growth business and tight cost control.
in online recruitment up 39% and online subscription services up 17%.
14 0 -1 13 At Reed Exhibitions, revenues were Online revenues now account for 41% 12% higher, or 10% underlying.
of RBI UK revenues with strong growth Strong growth was seen in key shows and new launches set to increase this across the principal geographies in further.
Print revenues benefited from the US, Europe and Asia Pacific, with innovative publishing and design.
In particularly good performances in continental Europe underlying revenues Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported Japan and in the international Midem were up 3%, with again good growth in Disposals entertainment and property shows new online services and some further held in Cannes.
Whilst much of B2B recovery in advertising markets.
marketing is moving online, the Revenues in Asia grew 6%.
demand for exhibitions remains very strong as exhibitors and buyers place As part of a repositioning of the great value on physical meetings and portfolio, the US manufacturing product events to balance other information news tabloid business was sold sources and connections.
Underlying during the year as well as a number New Scientist has chronicled the way profit growth was 16% including 6% of other titles and North American science and technology have transformed our understanding of the world and ourselves from share of joint ventures cycling in.
New Scientist celebrated its fiftieth The net effect of other biennial shows RBI acquired Buyerzone, a fast growing anniversary last year and sold over 200,000 copies cycling in and out is broadly neutral.
online service for matching vendors worldwide of its special anniversary edition.
The Sinopharm exhibitions acquired and buyers in procurement tendering in a joint venture in China in 2005 are that can be leveraged across RBIs performing well ahead of plan and new categories.
shows are to be launched in 2007.
The outlook for Reed Business is The Reed Business Information encouraging.
Strong demand for online magazine and information businesses services, good growth in exhibitions saw continued strong underlying growth and ongoing portfolio management in online services of over 20%, more are steadily repositioning the business than compensating for the 3% decline in for good long term growth.
print as the business migrates online.
Overall RBI revenues were up 2% underlying.
With 24% of revenues now from online services, the overall growth trajectory is encouraging.
Adjusted operating profits were up 12% through continued action on costs as resources are rebalanced to the digital opportunity.
19 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Financial review Reed Elsevier combined businesses Change at 2006 2005 Change constant m m % currencies Reported figures Revenue 5,398 5,166 4% 6% Operating profit 880 839 5% 9% Profit before tax 721 701 3% 8% Net borrowings 2,314 2,694 Adjusted figures Revenue growth % Operating profit 1,210 1,142 6% 9% Profit before tax 1,052 1,002 5% 9% Operating cash flow 1,152 1,080 7% 7% Operating margin 22.4% 22.1% Operating cash flow conversion 95% 95% 1 -2 5 Adjusted figures are presented as additional performance measures and are stated before the 4 amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, disposals and other non operating items, related tax effects and movements on deferred tax balances not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted figures are provided in the notes to the combined financial statements.
Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported Disposals Income statement recognised in the income statement but Revenue, at 5,398m, increased by 4%.
are not expected to crystallise in the At constant exchange rates, revenue foreseeable future.
Adjusted operating profit growth % was 6% higher, or 5% excluding acquisitions and disposals.
The reported attributable profit of 1 -3 623m compares with a reported 8 Reported figures attributable profit of 462m in 2005, Reported operating profit, after reflecting the strong operating 6 amortisation of acquired intangible performance and the lower reported assets and acquisition integration costs, tax charge.
The increase reflects the strong underlying operating Adjusted figures performance, partly offset by the effect Adjusted figures are used by Reed Underlying Acquisitions Currency Reported of a weaker US dollar hedge rate Elsevier as additional performance Disposals applicable for Elsevier journal measures and are stated before subscription revenues and other amortisation of acquired intangible currency translation effects.
assets and acquisition integration costs, Revenue by geographical market and, in respect of earnings, reflect a North America 57% The amortisation charge in respect of tax rate that excludes the effect of United Kingdom 11% The Netherlands 4% acquired intangible assets amounted to movements in deferred taxation assets Rest of Europe 16% 297m, up 21m, principally as a result and liabilities that are not expected Rest of World 12% of recent acquisitions.
to crystallise in the near term.
Profit and loss on disposals and other non Acquisition integration costs amounted operating items are also excluded from to 23m 2005: 21m.
Net losses the adjusted figures.
Comparison at on business disposals and other constant exchange rates uses 2005 non operating items were 1m average and hedge exchange rates.
Adjusted operating profit, at 1,210m, The reported profit before tax, including was up 6%.
At constant exchange rates, amortisation of acquired intangible adjusted operating profits were up Revenue by geographical origin assets, acquisition integration costs 9%, or 8% excluding acquisitions and North America 55% and non operating items, at 721m, disposals.
Underlying operating United Kingdom 17% was up 3%.
margins improved by 0.7 percentage The Netherlands 9% Rest of Europe 13% points.
Overall adjusted operating Rest of World 6% The reported tax charge of 96m margins, up 0.3 percentage points at compares with a charge of 237m in 22.4%, were held back by the inclusion the prior year principally reflecting of lower margin acquisitions and favourable settlement of tax on prior currency effects, most particularly year disposals and movements on the year on year movement in hedge deferred tax balances arising on rates in Elseviers journal subscriptions.
unrealised exchange differences on The net benefit of the Elsevier science long term inter-affiliate lending.
journal hedging programme is lower in These deferred tax movements are 2006 than in 2005 as the effect of the 20 Operating and financial review Financial review continued weaker US dollar is systematically The adjusted profit attributable to meet future obligations in respect incorporated within the three year shareholders of 796m was up 6% of share based remuneration.
compared to the prior year.
At constant proceeds from share issuance under exchange rates, adjusted profit share option programmes were 93m.
Within adjusted operating profit, the net attributable to shareholders was up 9%.
pension expense including the net Net borrowings at 31 December 2006 pension financing items included within Cash flows and debt were 2,314m 2005: 2,694m, a operating profit was 20m lower than Adjusted operating cash flow was decrease of 380m since 31 December in the prior year principally reflecting 1,152m, up 7%, and 7% at constant 2005 principally due to foreign exchange a wider differential between the return currencies.
The rate of conversion of translation effects following the on plan assets and interest on pension adjusted operating profits into cash flow significant weakening of the US dollar obligations.
The charge for share based was 95% 2005: 95% reflecting the between the beginning and end of the payments was 49m 2005: 57m.
continuing focus on capital discipline year.
These translation effects decreased Restructuring costs, other than in and managing working capital as the net debt by 277m.
Additionally, net debt respect of acquisition integration, were business expands.
benefited from the free cash flow less 21m 2005: 25m.
dividends and share buy backs and Capital expenditure included within acquisition spend.
Net finance costs, at 158m, were adjusted operating cash flow was 18m higher than in the prior year due 196m 2005: 195m, including 108m Gross borrowings after fair value to higher short term interest rates and in respect of capitalised development adjustments at 31 December 2006 the financing cost of acquisitions and costs included within intangible assets.
amounted to 3,006m, denominated the share repurchase programme, Spend on acquisitions was 171m mostly in US dollars, and were partly partly offset by the benefit of strong including deferred consideration offset by the fair value of related free cash flow.
An amount of 87m was derivatives of 173m and cash balances capitalised as acquired intangible totalling 519m invested in short term Adjusted profit before tax was 1,052m, assets and 102m as goodwill.
up 5% compared to the prior year.
Acquisition integration spend in respect After taking into account interest rate At constant exchange rates, adjusted of these and other recent acquisitions and currency derivatives, a total of 68% profit before tax was up 9%.
amounted to 26m principally in of Reed Elseviers gross borrowings respect of the MediMedia MAP equivalent to 88% of net borrowings Currency profile adjusted profit integration.
Disposal proceeds were at fixed rates and had a weighted before tax amounted to 48m.
average remaining life of 5.2 years and interest coupon of 5.2%.
US dollar 44% Sterling 18% Use of free cash flow Euro 31% The net pension deficit, ie pensions Other 7% Dividends 45% obligations less pension assets, at Buybacks 27% Acquisitions net 31 December 2006 was 236m 2005: of disposals 18% Retained free 405m.
The reduction in the deficit of cashflow10% 169m principally arises from the good asset returns and the increase in long term corporate bond yields which are used to discount the pension obligations.
Capital employed and returns The capital employed in the business at The effective tax rate on adjusted 31 December 2006 was 9,079m earnings was 24.1% 2005: 24.6%.
The 2005: 9,705m, after adding back effective tax rate on adjusted earnings Free cash flow after interest and accumulated amortisation of acquired excludes the effect of movements in taxation was 817m, up 53m.
The deferred taxation assets and liabilities Dividends paid to shareholders in the decrease of 626m principally arises that are not expected to crystallise in year amounted to 371m 2005: 336m.
from currency translation effects the near term, and more closely aligns Share repurchases by the parent 913m, most particularly from the with cash tax costs.
Adjusted operating companies amounted to 217m.
weakening of the US dollar between profits and taxation are also grossed Additional shares of the parent 1 January and 31 December 2006, partly up for the equity share of taxes in companies were purchased by the offset by acquisition spend of 163m joint ventures.
employee benefit trust for 68m to and the lower net pension deficit.
21 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 The return on average capital employed in the year was 9.8% 2005: 9.4%.
The improvement in the year reflects the good underlying profit growth and capital discipline The return on average capital employed Revenue recognition policies, while from royalty and comparable market in the year was 9.8% 2005: 9.4%.
This an area of management focus, are transactions.
Acquired intangible assets return is based on adjusted operating generally straightforward in application are capitalised and amortised profits, less tax at the 24% effective as the timing of product or service systematically over their estimated useful rate, and the average of the capital delivery and customer acceptance for lives, subject to annual impairment employed at the beginning and end the various revenue types can be readily review.
Appropriate amortisation periods of the year retranslated at average determined.
Allowances for product are selected based on assessments of exchange rates.
The improvement in returns are deducted from revenues the longevity of the brands and imprints, the year reflects the good underlying based on historical return rates.
the market positions of the acquired profit growth and capital discipline.
Where sales consist of two or assets and the technological and more components that operate competitive risks that they face.
Certain independently, revenue is recognised intangible assets in relation to acquired Return on capital employed % as each component is completed by science and medical publishing performance, based on attribution businesses have been determined to 9.8 of relative value.
The longevity of 9.4 these assets is evidenced by their long 9.0 Pre-publication costs incurred in the established and well regarded brands creation of content prior to production and imprints, and their characteristically and publication are deferred and stable market positions.
expensed over their estimated useful lives based on sales profiles.
Such costs The carrying amounts of goodwill and typically comprise direct internal labour indefinite lived intangible assets in each costs and externally commissioned business are regularly reviewed for 04 05 06 editorial and other fees.
Estimated useful impairment at least twice a year.
The lives generally do not exceed five years.
carrying amounts of all other intangible Acquisitions typically dilute the overall Annual reviews are carried out to assess assets are reviewed where there are return initially, but build quickly to the recoverability of carrying amounts.
deliver longer term returns well over An impairment review involves a Reed Elseviers average for the Development spend embraces comparison of the carrying value of business.
The recent acquisitions made investment in new product and other the asset with estimated values in in the years 2004 to 2006 are delivering initiatives, ranging from the building of use based on latest management cash post tax returns in 2006 of 10%, 6% and new online delivery platforms, to launch flow projections.
Key areas of judgment proforma 5% respectively and continue costs of new services, to building new in estimating the values in use of to grow well.
Launch businesses are the forecast long term costs and other operating expenses growth rates and the appropriate Accounting policies of new products and services discount rates to be applied to forecast Introduction are expensed as incurred.
Based on the latest value of building product applications and in use calculations, no goodwill The accounting policies of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses are infrastructure are capitalised as or intangible assets were impaired as intangible assets and amortised over at 31 December 2006. described in the combined financial statements.
The Reed Elsevier their estimated useful lives.
Impairment reviews are carried out annually.
combined financial statements and the Share based remuneration consolidated financial statements Share based remuneration is accounted of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Goodwill and intangible assets for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share NV are presented in accordance with Reed Elseviers accounting policy is Based Payment and is determined International Financial Reporting that, on acquisition of a subsidiary or based on the fair value of an award at Standards IFRS.
business, the purchase consideration is the date of grant, and is spread over the allocated between the net tangible and vesting period on a straight line basis, The most significant accounting policies intangible assets other than goodwill taking into account the number of in determining the financial condition on a fair value basis, with any excess shares that are expected to vest.
The and results of the combined purchase consideration representing fair value of awards is determined at businesses, and those requiring the goodwill.
The valuation of intangible the date of grant by use of a binomial most subjective or complex judgment, assets represents the estimated or Monte Carlo simulation model as relate to the valuation of goodwill economic value in use, using standard appropriate, which requires judgments and intangible assets, share based valuation methodologies, including as to be made regarding share price remuneration, pensions and taxation.
appropriate, discounted cash flow, relief volatility, dividend yield, risk free rates 22 Operating and financial review Financial review continued of return and expected option lives.
tax uncertainties where it is considered years are specified, depending on the The number of awards that are probable that tax payments may arise.
level of the total borrowings.
expected to vest requires judgments to be made regarding forfeiture rates Reed Elseviers policy in respect of After taking account of the maturity and the extent to which performance deferred taxation is to provide in full for of committed bank facilities that back conditions will be met.
These all taxable temporary differences using short term borrowing and after utilising assumptions are determined in the balance sheet liability method.
available cash resources, at conjunction with independent actuaries Deferred tax assets are only recognised 31 December 2006, no borrowings based on historical data and trends.
to the extent that they are considered mature in the next two years, 25% of recoverable based on forecasts of borrowings mature in the third year, Pensions available taxable profits against which 24% in the fourth and fifth years, 37% they can be utilised over the near term.
in the sixth to tenth years, and 14% Pension costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS19 Employee beyond the tenth year.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Maturity profile of borrowings Reed Elsevier NV have requested that Accounting for defined benefit pension Year 3 schemes involves judgment about Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Years 4 to 5 Years 6 to 10 Reed Finance BV have due regard to the uncertain events, including the life After 10 years expectancy of the members, salary and best interests of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the pension increases, inflation, the return on scheme assets and the rate at formulation of treasury policies.
which the future pension payments are discounted.
Estimates for these factors Financial instruments are used to finance the Reed Elsevier businesses and are used in determining the pension cost and liabilities reported in the to hedge transactions.
Reed Elseviers businesses do not enter into speculative financial statements.
These best estimates of future developments transactions.
The main treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, are made in conjunction with independent actuaries.
Each scheme interest rate risk and foreign currency In April 2006 Reed Elsevier renegotiated risk.
The boards of the parent companies and amended the terms of its is subject to a periodic review by the independent actuaries.
agree overall policy guidelines for US$3.0bn committed credit facility.
At managing each of these risks and the 31 December 2006, Reed Elsevier had For defined contribution schemes, boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and access to US$3.0bn 2005: US$3.0bn Elsevier Finance SA agree policies of committed bank facilities, of which the net cost represents contributions payable.
in conformity with parent company US$77m was drawn.
These facilities guidelines for their respective business principally provide back up for short and treasury centres.
These policies term debt but also security of funding Taxation are summarised below.
for future acquisition spend in the event The Reed Elsevier combined that commercial paper markets are not businesses seek to organise their available.
All these committed facilities affairs in a tax efficient manner, taking Liquidity Reed Elsevier maintains a range of expire within two to three years account of the jurisdictions in which 2005: two to three years.
A number of acquisitions borrowing facilities and debt programmes to fund its requirements, at and disposals have been made in recent years giving rise to complex tax issues short notice and at competitive rates.
The Interest rate exposure management significance of Reed Elsevier Group plcs Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure requiring management to use its judgment to make various tax US operations means that the majority of management policy is aimed at debt is denominated in US dollars and is reducing the exposure of the combined determinations.
Although Reed Elsevier is confident that tax returns have been raised in the US debt markets.
A mixture businesses to changes in interest rates.
of short term and long term debt is The proportion of interest expense that appropriately compiled, the application and interpretation of tax legislation is utilised and Reed Elsevier maintains a is fixed on net debt is determined by maturity profile to facilitate refinancing.
reference to the level of interest cover.
subject to uncertainty and there are risks that further tax may be payable Reed Elseviers policy is that no more Reed Elsevier uses fixed rate term debt, than US$1.0bn of term debt issues interest rate swaps, forward rate on certain transactions or that the deductibility of certain expenditure for should mature in any 12-month period.
agreements and a range of interest In addition, minimum levels of net debt rate options to manage the exposure.
tax purposes may be disallowed.
Reed Elseviers policy is to make provision for with maturities over three years and five Interest rate derivatives are used only 23 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 to hedge an underlying risk and no net according to the commercial situation responsible for insurance activities market positions are held.
Expected relating to risk retention.
future net cash flows may be covered At 31 December 2006, after taking for sales expected for up to the next Major developments account of interest rate and currency 12 months 50 months for Elsevier In 2006, EFSA acted as arranger of a derivatives in a designated hedging science and medical subscription Euro Commercial Paper programme relationship, US$3.8bn of Reed businesses up to limits staggered by and a term debt issue on behalf of Reed Elseviers net debt was denominated duration.
Cover takes the form of Elsevier Investments plc, a subsidiary in US dollars and net interest expense foreign exchange forward contracts.
of Reed Elsevier Group plc, renegotiated was fixed or capped on approximately various banking and cash management US$2.7bn of forecast US dollar net debt As at 31 December 2006, the amount arrangements in Continental Europe for the next 12 months.
This fixed or of outstanding foreign exchange cover and Asia and continued to provide advice capped net debt reduces to designated against future transactions to Reed Elsevier Group plc companies approximately US$1.2bn by the end was US$1.2bn.
regarding interest and foreign currency of the third year and reduces further exposures and electronic collections and thereafter with all but US$0.1bn of fixed payment solutions.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV rate term debt not swapped back to floating rate having matured by the The average balance of cash under Structure end of 2012.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Dutch management in 2006, on behalf of Reed Elsevier Group plc and its parent parent company of the Elsevier Reed At 31 December 2006, fixed rate US Finance BV group ERF, is directly companies, was approximately $0.5bn.
dollar term debt not swapped back owned by Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed to floating rate amounted to US$1.3bn Elsevier NV.
ERF provides treasury, Liabilities and assets and had a weighted average life At the end of 2006, 88% 2005: 87% of finance and insurance services to the remaining of 8.3 years 2005: 6.7 years Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses ERFs gross assets were held in US and a weighted average interest dollars and 10% 2005: 12% in euros, through its subsidiaries in Switzerland: coupon of 6.0%.
Designated interest Elsevier Finance SA EFSA, Elsevier including $8.5bn 2005: $8.1bn and rate derivatives in place at a0.8bn 2005: a0.9bn in loans to Reed Properties SA EPSA and Elsevier 31 December 2006, which fix or cap the Risks SA ERSA.
These three Elsevier Group plc subsidiaries.
Loans interest cost on an additional US$1.5bn made to Reed Elsevier Group plc Swiss companies are organised under 2005: US$0.7bn of variable rate US one Swiss holding company, which is businesses are funded from equity, long dollar debt, have a weighted average term debt of $1.3bn and short term in turn owned by Elsevier Reed maturity of 1.4 years 2005: 2.2 years Finance BV.
debt of $0.8bn backed by committed and a weighted average interest rate bank facilities.
Activities from a Swiss domestic public bond issue, bilateral term loans and private EFSA, EPSA and ERSA each focus on Foreign currency exposure their own specific area of expertise.
Short term debt is primarily derived from euro and US management EFSA is the principal treasury centre commercial paper programmes.
Translation exposures arise on the earnings and net assets of business for the combined businesses.
It is responsible for all aspects of treasury operations in countries other than those of each parent company.
These advice and support for Reed Elsevier Group plcs businesses operating in exposures are hedged, to a significant extent, by a policy of denominating Continental Europe, South America, the Pacific Rim, China and certain other borrowings in currencies where significant translation exposures exist, territories, and undertakes foreign exchange and derivatives dealing most notably US dollars.
services for the whole of Reed Elsevier.
EFSA also arranges or directly provides Currency exposures on transactions denominated in a foreign currency are Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses with financing for acquisitions and required to be hedged using forward contracts.
In addition, recurring product development and manages cash pools and investments on their transactions and future investment exposures may be hedged, within behalf.
EPSA is responsible for the exploitation of tangible and intangible defined limits, in advance of becoming contractual.
The precise policy differs property rights whilst ERSA is 24 Operating and financial review Change at Parent companies 2006 2005 Change constant Reed Elsevier PLC m m % currencies Reported profit attributable 320 235 36% 43% Adjusted profit attributable 421 399 6% 9% Reed Elsevier PLC Reported earnings per share 25.6p 18.6p 38% 44% Adjusted EPS Adjusted earnings per share 33.6p 31.5p 7% 11% Dividend per share 15.9p 14.4p 10% 33.6p Change at 31.5p 7% 2006 2005 Change constant Reed Elsevier NV em am % currencies at reported currencies Reported profit attributable 458 338 36% 42% Adjusted profit attributable 585 551 6% 9% Reported earnings per share e0.59 a0.43 37% 44% 11% Adjusted earnings per share e0.76 a0.70 9% 11% at constant Dividend per share e0.406 a0.359 13% currencies 05 06 The Reed Elsevier combined businesses encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, together with their two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Dividends Elsevier NV the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The results of Reed Elsevier PLC reflect its shareholders 52.9% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
The results of Reed Elsevier NV reflect its shareholders 50% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
15.9p The respective economic interests of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders take account of Reed Elsevier PLCs 5.8% interest in Reed Elsevier NV.
14.4p Earnings per share Dividend cover, based on adjusted For the parent companies, Reed earnings per share and the total of the 10% Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, interim and proposed final dividend adjusted earnings per share were for the year, was 2.1 times for Reed respectively up 7% at 33.6p 2005: Elsevier PLC and 1.9 times for Reed 31.5p and 9% at a0.76 2005: a0.70.
Measured for the combined 05 06 At constant rates of exchange, the businesses on a similar basis, dividend Dividends in respect of the 2006 financial year adjusted earnings per share of both cover was 2.0 times.
companies increased by 11% over the prior year.
Parent company financial statements Reed Elsevier NV The individual parent company financial Shares repurchased in the year under statements for Reed Elsevier PLC and Adjusted EPS the annual share repurchase plan Reed Elsevier NV continue to be announced in February 2006 totalled prepared under UK GAAP.
As permitted d0.76 20.6 million ordinary shares of Reed by 2:362 subsection 1 of The 9% d0.70 Elsevier PLC and 13.4 million ordinary Netherlands Civil Code, UK GAAP may at reported shares of Reed Elsevier NV.
Taking into be adopted by Dutch companies with currencies account the associated financing cost, international operations for the these share repurchases are estimated preparation of financial statements and, to have added 0.5% to adjusted accordingly, UK GAAP has been adopted 11% earnings per share in 2006. by Reed Elsevier NV for its individual parent company financial statements, at constant currencies The reported earnings per share for thereby ensuring consistency.
05 06 Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders were 25.6p 2005: 18.6p and for Reed Elsevier NV shareholders werea0.59 Dividends 2005: a0.43.
d0.406 Dividends d0.359 The equalised final dividends proposed are 11.8p per share for Reed Elsevier PLC and a0.304 per share for Reed Elsevier NV up 10% and 14% on the prior year respectively.
This gives total 13% dividends for the year of 15.9p and a0.406, up 10% and 13% on 2005 respectively.
The difference in dividend 05 06 growth rates reflects the movement in the euro:sterling exchange rate Dividends in respect of the 2006 financial year between dividend announcement dates.
25 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006 Key performance measures The key financial performance Adjusted operating cash flow figures in the reporting currencies of measures used by Reed Elsevier the parent companies.
cash generated from operations plus and the bases of their calculation dividends from joint ventures less net are as follows: capital expenditure on property, plant Performance in respect of the principal and equipment and internally key performance measures for Reed Revenue as reported in the developed intangible assets, and Elsevier is described in the financial statements.
excluding payments in relation to Chairman and Chief Executives Report acquisition integration costs.
and the Operating and Financial Adjusted operating profit reported Review above.
operating profit before amortisation Constant currency growth growth of acquired intangible assets, rates calculated using the prior year The derivations of adjusted operating acquisition integration costs, and average and hedge exchange rates.
profit, adjusted profit before tax, share of taxation of joint ventures.
adjusted profit attributable, and Underlying growth constant adjusted operating cash flow are Adjusted operating margin currency growth rates excluding disclosed in the notes to the combined adjusted operating profit expressed acquisitions and disposals.
The derivation as a percentage of revenue.
of the adjusted earnings per share of Return on capital employed the parent companies is shown in Adjusted profit before tax adjusted operating profit less the notes to the Reed Elsevier PLC reported profit before tax before taxation at the effective rate for the and Reed Elsevier NV consolidated amortisation of acquired intangible year expressed as a percentage of financial statements.
assets, acquisition integration capital employed, being the costs, share of taxation of joint aggregate of gross goodwill and ventures, disposals and other acquired intangible assets, property, non operating items.
plant and equipment, internally developed intangible assets, working Effective tax rate on adjusted profit capital, less net pension obligations before tax reflects the tax rate and provisions.
excluding movements on deferred tax balances not expected to crystallise The source data for calculating the key in the near term, more closely performance measures is obtained aligning with cash taxes payable, from the Reed Elsevier financial and includes the benefit of deductible reporting system.
tax amortisation on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
The adjusted figures are adopted as key performance measures since they Adjusted profit attributable to measure performance without shareholders reported profit reference to non cash amortisation of attributable to shareholders before intangible assets, mostly acquired in amortisation of acquired intangible prior periods, which has no operational assets, acquisition integration relevance to current performance.
costs, disposals and other non Acquisition integration expenses are operating items, related tax effects excluded since they are a direct function and movements on deferred of the relevant acquisition activity and tax balances not expected to not a reflection of ongoing operational crystallise in the near term.
Underlying growth, excluding acquisitions and disposals, Adjusted earnings per share is measured to give a proper adjusted profit attributable to assessment of year on year organic shareholders of each parent growth without distortion for part year company divided by the respective contributions.
Constant currency average number of ordinary growth is measured to give a better shares in issue in the period.
reflection of year on year performance before translation and other currency effects in arriving at the reported
