Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 11 FINANCIAL REVIEW 11 Business outline Most of the Groups products are manufactured in the UK Renishaws business is metrology, the science of and Ireland and the Group markets and distributes them measurement.
The Group manufactures a comprehensive to customers around the world, with sales outside the UK range of high-precision probing systems, accessories, representing over 90% of total group sales.
calibration and measuring systems and other innovative The Group has established overseas marketing and products which enable customers worldwide to carry distribution subsidiaries in the USA, Japan, Germany, out dimensional measurements to traceable standards.
France, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Brazil, The The Groups products comprise: Netherlands, India, Australia, Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Austria, South Korea, Canada, Israel and Co-ordinate measuring machine CMM probes and The Peoples Republic of China.
These subsidiaries provide accessories, which are used for accurate post-process support to customers in our major markets.
inspection of components on CMMs.
With Renishaws range of controllers, high-speed collection of data can There are also representative offices in Singapore, Taiwan, be undertaken using either continuous contact or Hungary, Turkey and Thailand, and a partnership company, analogue scanning.
Machine tool probes and tool setting systems, used Business strategy for automated component identification, and workpiece The Groups business plan is to develop technologies that and tool setting and inspection, which can be fitted on provide patented products and processes which support CNC turning and milling machines.
To remain competitive, our product strategies.
These products and processes companies need to automate production whilst include ultra high-resolution encoders, high-speed, highmaintaining tight control of the dimensions and finish of accuracy, error-corrected dimensional measurement their manufactured components.
The acceptance of sensors, motion controllers with enhanced high-speed quality control in the production environment means that performance and the development of novel approaches probing is considered essential and allows the complete to materials analysis.
manufacturing process to be monitored and made The Group is developing other market opportunities, in self-correcting.
addition to the more traditional manufacturing sector, which Laser interferometers and the QC10 ballbar, used to has provided the major customers for Renishaws products determine the accuracy of CMMs, machine tools and in the past.
These other market opportunities include other industrial and scientific equipment.
Regular use of printing, scientific research, dental, process control in these systems increases knowledge of the production chemical, semiconductor and material production and process and thus helps increase product quality, reduce motion feedback systems for equipment used in the scrap and machine down-time.
production of electronic and semiconductor components.
Linear and rotary encoder systems, for precise linear The Group also plans to develop geographic markets, with and rotary motion control.
These systems offer precision ongoing investment mainly in South East Asia, especially feedback for a variety of applications, ranging from longChina and India.
axis machine tools to X-Y wafer inspection systems.
In order to improve the Groups ability to design, manufacture Dental and other scanning and digitising systems, and support its products, more investment has been made used in the process of gathering data from 3D surfaces, in manufacturing facilities in the UK, mainly at the site at specifically for certain dental processes and in other fields Stonehouse, which was refurbished during the year and such as jewellery, coin, shoe and automotive manufacture.
now houses the machine shop, raw materials stores and These systems are used where high rates of data capture post-manufacturing processes.
with high accuracy from fine detail impression dies It is the Boards belief that success comes from patented is required.
and innovative products and processes, low-cost, highSpectroscopy products, including the Raman microscope, quality manufacturing and the ability to provide local used to identify the composition and structure of materials customer support in all the Groups markets.
and which can be applied in many different fields, such as pharmaceutical, forensic, semiconductor and chemical industries.
Styli and custom products, to meet the business opportunities for styli and accessories and for customised products, where Renishaws standard product does not address the customers specialised requirements.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 12 12 FINANCIAL REVIEW: continued Acquisitions As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, the defined During the year, the Group made three acquisitions.
benefit pension scheme being maintained for the UK employees is currently undergoing a detailed review.
In September 2005, the Company invested 0.3m in a Meanwhile, there is a certain risk and it remains vulnerable 50% business partnership in Metrology Software Products to changes in performance and actuarial assumptions.
Limited MSP, a metrology software development company.
The next triennial actuarial valuation will take place on MSP develops software products in the field of engineering 1st July 2007 and this will form the basis for the schemes metrology and production environments.
MSP products are future funding.
used by a number of original equipment manufacturers including Renishaw.
There is an exchange rate risk arising from the significant level of overseas revenue.
The policy for managing this risk In October 2005, the Company acquired a 50% share is detailed in the treasury policy on page 14, which also in PulseTeq Limited, a supplier of magnetic resonance details the hedging practices used to limit the exposure.
This investment of 0.3m will assist Renishaw in its investigation and exploitation of There are interesting opportunities developing in the opportunities in the medical field.
dental field and, with our acquisition of PulseTeq, applications of our metrology expertise in the medical In May 2006, Renishaw purchased for 4.8m itp GmbH, field look very promising.
a German company which designs, manufactures and distributes styli and accessories for metrology applications.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS itps products are complementary to Renishaws stylus EU law requires that the consolidated financial statements business and this investment will allow the companies of the Company be prepared in accordance with IFRS to share technology developments and add to the range adopted by the EU, for all accounting periods beginning on of products that Renishaw and itp supply to their or after 1st January 2005.
These are the first set of financial customers world-wide.
statements prepared by the Company under IFRS and the comparative figures, previously prepared under UK Opportunities and risks Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP Along with the three acquisitions made during the year, have been restated as necessary.
the Group has continued to invest in research and development.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
This research and development is intended to ensure that our range of products in the field of metrology continue to Operating review provide customers with cost-effective solutions to their In the year to 30th June 2006, group sales increased by metrology requirements and that we keep ahead of the 14% over the previous year, from 154.8m to 175.8m.
competition with patented and innovative products.
This was after favourable currency movements which had We have been in the probing business since the start of the the effect of increasing group sales by 3.6m, when Company in 1973 and as a major supplier in both the cocompared with the previous years exchange rates.
At the ordinate measuring machine and machine tool industries, previous years exchange rates, sales would have increased the main risks inevitably come from the volatility of the by 11%.
Currently this is being buoyed by Continental Europe continues to be our major market area, the arrival of China and India onto the international stage.
but it is a mature market and sales only increased by 2%, To defend market share, we maintain close working from 57.7m last year to 58.9m this year.
In contrast, relationships with our major customers, who are mainly sales to Japan and the Far East rose to 53.1m 2005 original equipment manufacturers OEMs, including at 43.1m, an increase of 23%.
North and South America the design stages of their new products, ensuring that increased by 18%, from 39.6m to 46.7m, while UK and we have an extensive range of products which will provide Ireland saw sales up from 10.4m to 11.5m, a rise of 11%.
the required solution for the customer and which can be The following table shows the analysis of revenue by integrated as easily as possible into the OEMs products.
geographical market and the effect of exchange rate changes.
The Group is establishing a manufacturing facility in India, which will enhance the Groups product range and will ensure that we can continue to produce competitively priced products.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 13 13 Revenue by geographical market 2006 at actual 2006 at 2005 2005 at actual exchange rates exchange rates exchange rates 000 000 000 Continental Europe 58,945 58,026 57,665 Far East, including Japan and Australia 53,130 53,239 43,092 North and South America 46,708 43,890 39,605 United Kingdom and Ireland 11,513 11,513 10,361 Other regions 5,539 5,518 4,076 Total group revenue 175,835 172,186 154,799 Revenue by geographical market With slightly increased net financial income, this being Other regions interest income on our cash deposits, along with other 3% finance income relating to the Groups defined benefit UK and Ireland 7% pension schemes, profit before tax rose by 20%, from 31.7m in 2005 to 38.1m in 2006.
The overall effective rate of tax, a combination of the Continental varying tax rates applicable throughout the countries in Europe which the Group has subsidiaries, was 20%, which is at North and 34% South America a similar level to the previous year.
Profit after tax and 26% earnings per share basic and diluted were also 20% higher, with earnings per share of 41.9p, compared with 34.9p in the previous year.
Far East The proposed total dividend per share for the year is 30% increased by 10%, from 19.80p to 21.78p, giving a total dividend of 15.9m 2005 14.4m for the year.
Note that under IFRS, the dividend amounts in the retained earnings of 14.9m for the current year and 13.5m for the previous We continued to invest in research and development, year are based on amounts paid in the relevant year, rather with total engineering costs increasing by 11%, to 29.3m than the amounts proposed in relation to those years, in 2006 from 25.4m last year, before the capitalisation which is how the dividends were accounted for under of development costs net of amortisation charges of previous UK GAAP.
The interim dividend paid is the same 1.8m this year and 0.5m last year.
The capitalisation under both standards.
However, in the case of the final of development costs reduced the engineering costs in proposed dividend, this is accounted for one year later the Consolidated income statement to 27.5m this year, under IFRS as it is not approved until the annual general compared with 24.9m last year.
A significant proportion of meeting, which is held after the year end.
this spend is eligible for the UK research and development tax relief, which results in a reduction of approximately 1.0m in the UK corporation tax charge for the year.
Operating profit The group workforce expanded during the year, from Operating profit 1,865 at June 2005 to 2,004 at June 2006.
The increase % of sales in headcount has been both in the UK and Ireland, to support the growth in business, and also in our overseas subsidiaries, mainly in India, where we are establishing 35 a manufacturing facility, and in the Far East, to support 50 our sales and marketing activities there.
30 Total labour costs increased to 70.4m from 63.7m 40 25 in 2005, a rise of 10%.
20 Operating profit for the year was 35.5m, 21% above 30 the 29.3m for the previous year.
15 20 10 10 5 0 0 02 03 04 05 06 13.4 15.6 18.1 29.3 35.5 Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 14 14 FINANCIAL REVIEW: continued Balance sheet Cash balances million The Group has continued to make substantial investment in fixed assets during the year, with capital expenditure on m tangible fixed assets of 13.2m compared with 14.9m during the previous year.
35 During the year, the refurbishment of our new manufacturing site in Stonehouse was completed and work was started 30 on the manufacturing facility in Pune, India.
The Group 25 continues to invest in production facilities and IT equipment, spending 8.9m on plant and equipment in the year.
20 The net book value of fixed assets was 69.1m at June 2006, compared with 64.3m at June 2005, an increase of 4.8m.
15 The Group also capitalised certain development costs 10 during the year, as required under IFRS.
Development costs of 3.2m were added to intangible assets, while 5 amortisation on previously capitalised development costs totalled 1.4m, thereby increasing these intangible assets 0 02 03 04 05 06 in the balance sheet by 1.8m, compared with a net increase of 0.5m last year.
All Sterling and foreign currency balances not Inventory has been maintained at a similar level to the immediately required for group operations are placed on previous year, being 28.4m at June 2006, up 1.0m from short-term deposit with leading international highly-rated 27.4m at June 2005. financial institutions.
Net cash inflow from operating activities was 34.1m The Group uses a number of financial instruments to compared with 26.4m in the previous year, which after manage foreign currency risk, such as foreign currency significant capital expenditure, acquisitions, tax and borrowings to hedge the exposure on the net assets of dividend payments has resulted in cash balances the overseas subsidiaries and, from time to time, forward increasing by 0.6m from 30.1m to 30.7m.
exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency cash inflows.
The Company has continued to make additional Also, currency swaps are used to minimise the interest contributions to its UK defined benefit pension scheme, cost of maintaining the currency borrowings.
The foreign in line with recommendations from the schemes actuaries.
currency borrowings are short-term with floating interest There has been an increase of 18.4m in the valuation of rates.
The Group does not speculate with derivative the assets of the Groups schemes, but the schemes financial instruments.
liabilities have also increased, partly due to changes in See note 19 on page 41 for an analysis of cash balances actuarial assumptions.
As a result, the overall deficit, and currency borrowings at the year end.
which was 20.7m at June 2005, decreased to 18.8m During the year, there were forward contracts in place to at the end of the year.
hedge against the major part of the Groups Euro cash As a guide to sensitivity of the value of the liabilities, currently inflows for the full year and for the Groups US Dollar cash 91.1m, a decrease or increase in the discount rate of 0.1% inflows for the last three months of the financial year.
would increase or decrease liabilities by approximately Forward contracts are also in place as a hedge against 2.0m.
An increase or decrease in the salary rate of 0.1% a major part of the Groups estimated Euro cash inflows would increase or decrease liabilities by approximately from July 2006 until June 2008.
1.0m and a decrease in the retirement age of one year would increase liabilities by approximately 2.7m.
Investment for the future The Group has continued to invest heavily in its research Treasury policies and development programme, with 16% of revenue being The Groups treasury policies are designed to manage spent on research and development, including associated financial risks to the Group that arise from operating in a engineering costs.
The Group is committed to continuing number of foreign currencies and to maximise interest this policy in order to develop new patented products to income on cash deposits.
As an international group, the support its existing markets and to expand into new main exposure is in respect of foreign currency risk on the market areas.
trading transactions undertaken by overseas subsidiaries We will also continue to invest in manufacturing, to improve and on the translation of the net assets of such subsidiaries.
efficiencies in production and ensure capacity for the future, Regular groupwide cash management reporting and forecasting and extend our presence around the world by opening is in place to facilitate management of this currency risk.
The offices in new territories and expanding existing offices operations of group treasury, which is situated at head office, where considered appropriate.
are governed by Board-approved policies.
