Rentokil Initial plc [Financial Review] Discontinued Operations Tax Discontinued operations primarily represent the UK linen and The income statement tax charge for the year was 44.8 million workwear business plus the UK, Canadian, Belgian and US Manned 2005: 59.4 million representing an effective tax rate of 22.5% Guarding businesses.
Trading from these operations, together with compared with 27.3% for 2005.
However, the reported tax charge for a small adjustment for prior year disposals, produced losses after both years was affected by the release of tax provisions in respect of taxation of 3.1 million in the year.
These were offset by profits previous periods which are no longer required following agreement on disposal of 95.9 million, leaving profit for the year from of the relevant liabilities with fiscal authorities.
The underlying discontinued operations at 92.8 million 2005: 166.4 million.
effective tax rate, before such provision releases, was 29.9% in 2006 UK linen and workwear was closed on 30 April 2006. compared with 32.7% in 2005, the decrease mainly due to a reduction The discontinued business incurred a trading loss of 3.8 million in in disallowable costs.
the year net of profit on sale of surplus properties.
The 2006 loss was The weighted headline tax rates appropriate to the countries in reduced by some 3 million as a result of the reduced depreciation which the group operated was 30.7% for 2006 compared with 30.9% following the asset impairment charge recognised in 2005. in 2005.
It exceeds the UK rate of 30% as substantial profits are earned The sales of the four Manned Guarding businesses were in France, Belgium and Germany where tax rates range from 34% completed during the year for a gross consideration of 150.0 million.
These businesses made operating losses of 7.2 million up to the dates of disposal and produced a profit on disposal of 95.9 million.
Earnings Per Share and Dividends Profit for the year attributable to equity holders was 245.1 million Interest 2005: 321.5 million.
At 8.43 pence, basic earnings per share for The groups net interest charge for 2006 was 52.0 million compared continuing businesses were 2% lower than 2005.
Basic earnings per with 54.9 million in 2005.
Net interest on bank and bond debt and share for total operations were down 24% on 2005 at 13.57 pence finance leases was 50.2 million compared with 52.0 million for the per share.
Average net debt in 2006 was 149 million lower than 2005 An interim dividend of 2.13 pence per share was paid on reflecting the proceeds from the sale of Style Conferences at the end of 27 October 2006.
A final dividend of 5.25 pence per share will be 2005 and the sale of Manned Guarding in the first half of 2006, although proposed at the Annual General Meeting in May 2007, maintaining these proceeds were offset by the 200 million special contribution into the full year dividend at 7.38 pence per share.
This is in line with the the pension fund in December 2005.
The purchase of Target Express statement made in the 2005 preliminary results announcement and for 213 million in November 2006 had only a limited impact on the subsequently that a cautious approach would continue to be taken to interest charge for the year, although it will have a more significant dividend growth until it was clear that the recovery in the businesses effect in 2007.
The effect of lower average net debt was offset by an was well established.
increase in average interest rates as a result of the ten year sterling bond issue in March 2006 and the general upward trend in interest rates Cash Flow over the course of the year.
This latter effect was, however, mitigated Operating cash flow for the year of 211.0 million 2005: by the interest rate hedges that were in place during the year but the 287.0 million was 76.0 million below last year with operating cost of debt is expected to rise in 2007.
The balance of the interest charge profit before depreciation, amortisation, impairment charges reflects the notional net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities and non-cash items accounting for 95.2 million of the reduction.
and various mark-to-market adjustments on treasury transactions.
Working capital outflows accounted for another 11.0 million with Further details are given in notes 6 and 7 to the income statement.
a large part of this due to the higher level of business in the last quarter.
Capex was 30.2 million below last year, reflecting the Profit Before Tax disposal of the Manned Guarding businesses earlier in the year, After interest of 52.0 million and one-off items totalling the relatively capital intensive Style Conferences business sold in 23.6 million 2005: 30.5 million, pre-tax profit reduced by the fourth quarter of 2005 and the disposal of surplus properties 18.3 million to 199.1 million.
following the closure of the UK linen and workwear business.
30 Rentokil Initial plc [Financial Review] Lower tax cash flows, as a result of lower profits and pension The companys sources of finance should be structured in a payments, partly compensated for the lower operating cash flows manner so as to minimise potential refinancing risk particularly to leave free cash flow 31.8 million below last year at 128.6 million.
arising from a bunching of debt note facility maturities.
Net debt increased by 247.9 million over the year reflecting the The companys financing sources should be diversified, across relatively high acquisition spend primarily for Target Express, the international banking and capital markets, so as to avoid the JC Ehrlich, the Asia Pacific division and the acquisition of over-reliance upon a single source, or disproportionately large City Link franchises.
source, of funds from an individual capital market note issue or bank finance provider.
Shareholders Funds In Autumn 2005, the groups credit rating from Standard & Poors Consolidated equity shareholders funds at the end of 2006 were was reduced from BBB with negative outlook to its current level negative 540.0 million, compared to negative 666.6 million at the of BBB with stable outlook.
This reflected the groups weaker than end of 2005.
The principal cause of this movement was the profit expected business risk and financial risk profiles following weakened for the year attributable to shareholders of 245.1 million offset operating performance over the past few years.
by dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of 133.3 million.
We continue to target a stable BBB rating in the medium-term as we believe that this strikes an appropriate balance between an Financial Risk Management Policies efficient capital structure as represented by a low weighted average The board has approved the following financial risk management cost of capital, liquid access to the capital markets and reasonable policies.
These policies cover those financial risks that are material pricing.
The board believes that a key priority must be to retain to the companys operations and financial results.
The board has set sufficient financing flexibility to fund its business turnaround appropriate delegated authorities, treasury financing parameters and strategy.
Therefore, over the short to medium-term we do not have reporting procedures to ensure compliance with such policies at all surplus capital that could be returned to shareholders if a minimum times.
The effect of the companys treasury activities is reflected in BBB credit rating is to be maintained with an appropriate degree of the disclosures in notes 17, 22, 23 and 24. headroom to avoid further ratings pressure.
At 31 December 2006, the group had approximately 274 million Capital Structure and of undrawn committed bank credit facilities.
The company is in Financing Strategy liquidity risk compliance with the financial and other covenants within its The board has set the following policies so as to minimise the committed bank credit facilities as well as all obligations relating to the companys exposure to liquidity risk and thus ensure that the notes issued under the Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme.
company is able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
In 2006 the group lengthened the maturity profile of its debt.
The company is committed to maintaining a debt equity capital This was achieved through the successful issuance of a 300 million structure that is sufficiently robust so as to ensure the continued ten year bond in March and the establishment of new 500 million access to a broad range of financing sources and thus be able to five year syndicated bank credit facilities in October.
Both financing maintain sufficient flexibility to pursue commercial opportunities, transactions were well received by the market, having been well in a timely manner as they present themselves, without the over subscribed.
imposition of onerous financing terms and conditions.
The companys credit rating from Standard & Poors has remained The company will maintain a minimum financing headroom of BBB with stable outlook throughout 2006.
This rating was most 200 million, when measured against its latest forecast anticipated recently reaffirmed on 30 November 2006 following the companys cash flows over a rolling nine-month time horizon.
announcements that it had both acquired the Target Express parcel delivery business for 213 million and decided to undertake a strategic review of its Electronic Security business.
31 Rentokil Initial plc [Financial Review] Market Price Risk Foreign Exchange Risk The company and its reported results are exposed to financial market Foreign exchange risk can arise as follows: price movements.
These risks principally arise from the interest and 1. from retranslation of overseas business profits into the sterling foreign exchange rate markets.
In addition, through its UK defined functional reporting currency of the company: benefit pension scheme the scheme see note 26, the company 2. from retranslation of assets and liabilities of overseas companies also has exposure to equity market price movements.
The trustee into the functional currency of the company: directors are responsible for setting the risk management strategy for 3. from cross-border trading transactions of group companies: and this scheme.
During the year this schemes exposure to equity market 4. from the use of currency denominated borrowings and financial price movements has markedly reduced.
In early April 2006 the instruments used to finance business operations.
schemes assets were switched from being predominantly in equities The company has a policy of not hedging foreign exchange 80% 20% equities bonds to being mostly in corporate bonds translation risks outlined in 1 and 2 above.
Further, the company 20% 80% equities bonds.
A 10% movement in equity prices in any has a policy of not hedging foreign exchange risks arising from one year would give rise to a 20 million movement in scheme cross-border trading activities given that these are immaterial.
assets and thus a corresponding movement in the underlying scheme The company policy is to fund its business operations centrally deficit.
Shortly after this asset switch, the scheme also undertook with borrowings that are substantially denominated 90% or greater in inflation and interest rate hedging actions.
These actions, together the same actual or effective currencies, and in the same proportion with the closure of the scheme to future accrual with effect from as the groups forecast cash flows generated by the business.
31 August 2006, were undertaken so as to increase the likelihood that Actual or effective currency.
The use of either actual currency borrowings or currency the schemes assets together with the companys agreed future swaps is permitted.
Currency swaps economically change the actual currency of borrowing contributions would be sufficient to meet its anticipated financial into an effective amount, borrowed in a different currency.
Currency swaps will be used commitments to existing and future pensioners.
in preference to actual currency borrowings when the all-in cost is cheaper than the The company remains committed to funding the schemes existing alternative currency borrowings and or they enable a closer match to the companys IAS 19 pension scheme deficit, which at 31 December 2006 stood at debt maturity calendar.
The company agreed a schedule of future company contributions with the schemes trustee in December Credit Risk 2005 that would eliminate this deficit by 2012.
The company utilises financial instruments to manage financial risks that arise naturally from its business operations.
Only group treasury Interest Rate Risk personnel are authorised to deal such instruments on behalf of the The policy is to manage interest rate exposures on a 12-month rolling company.
The board has set strict policies for the use of such basis measured quarterly.
Unless otherwise agreed by the board, instruments.
The companys policy is to ensure that their use shall be: a minimum of 50% of the companys estimated future interest rate strictly limited to the management of known or anticipated exposures should be fixed or capped for a minimum period of financial exposures which arise from the companys existing or nine months forward.
Additionally, in the event that the companys planned commercial operations: interest cover measured by the ratio of adjusted operating profit to only undertaken by suitably qualified or experienced group net interest payable is forecast to fall below five times, any remaining treasury staff: un-hedged interest rate exposures for the forthcoming 12-month undertaken only after efforts have been taken to avoid the need period should be immediately fixed or capped.
for use of such derivative instruments to manage the groups Some 98% of the groups net borrowings are currently at financial exposures: fixed rates of interest for 2007.
Thereafter, in the event that limited to the management of interest rate or foreign exchange interest rates rise or fall by 1% p. a. simultaneously across the exposures i. e. no equity related or commodity hedging shall be groups borrowings, the net interest payable by the group would undertaken without specific board approval : then correspondingly increase or reduce by approximately 12.9 million on an annualised basis.
32 Rentokil Initial plc [Financial Review] undertaken only after the preparation of clear documentation assets as a result of favourable market movements in the early part which explains the purpose for the use of the specific derivative of the year.
During 2006, a series of interest and inflation rate hedges and its proposed financial accounting treatment: were executed by the Scheme and its investment mix changed from capped by the maximum approved counterparty limit for that approximately 80% equities 20% fixed interest to the new asset transaction: and allocation of 20% equities 80% fixed interest.
The effect of the subject where relevant to detailed hedge effectiveness testing by hedging will be to reduce the exposure of the Schemes assets and group treasury, through to maturity of the transaction, if designated liabilities to market movements by linking the cash flow profile and documented as a hedge at the outset of the transaction.
of the bond investments to the Schemes liabilities.
In addition, an interim review by the Schemes actuaries resulted in an 11 million The company further limits its exposure to credit risk on financial increase in the Schemes liabilities to reflect the differences between instruments by ensuring, where appropriate, that instruments used some valuation assumptions made previously and recent experience.
are subject to International Swaps and Derivatives Association At 30 June 2006, the UK Schemes IAS 19 deficit was estimated market standard legal documentation.
The 32 million increase in the deficit since that date The board also sets maximum counterparty approval limits for reflects the impact of updated actuarial assumptions following the individual financial counterparties.
These limits are reviewed and interim review performed in the second half, the scheme closure varied to take account of changes to the underlying credit rating of effects and changes to IAS 19 interest and inflation assumptions.
individual credit counterparties as required.
Accounting Standards Acquisitions The financial statements included in this annual report have The group acquired 71 businesses in the year for a net consideration been prepared and presented under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The groups accounting policies are set out on pages 61 to 71.
Details of the businesses acquired and the revenue and Amendments to IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign operating profit therefrom are set out in note 32 to the accounts.
exchange rates, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and By consideration value, the most significant transactions undertaken Measurement, IFRC 4, Determining whether an arrangement during the year were: contains a lease and IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating J. C. Ehrlich Co. Inc. the fourth largest pest control company in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment in the USA, for a consideration of 75.0 million.
have been implemented in 2006 with no material effect on either The washroom businesses of CWS Asia and SGS Pink in Asia the current or prior periods.
Pacific for 12.9 million and 25.3 million respectively.
Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International The purchase of the next day parcel delivery business Target Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 6, Exploration for and Express for 213.3 million.
evaluation of Mineral Resources and interpretation IFRIC 5, Nine City Link franchises for total consideration of 51.2 million.
Rights to interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds have become applicable Pensions in the year but are not relevant to the groups operations.
The IAS 19 pension deficit was 118.8 million at the end of 2006 Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to compared with 182.3 million in December 2005.
The group has existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the a number of small defined benefit schemes but the principal liability groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 or relates to the UK Scheme the Scheme which had a deficit of later periods but which the group has not early adopted.
We have 108 million at December 2006 compared with 170 million a year identified IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure effective ago.
The principal reason for the reduction in the deficit is the 1 January 2007 and IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective 14 million reduction in the Schemes liabilities following the 1 January 2009 as being relevant to its business.
The impact on cessation of accrual and an increase in the value of the Schemes the groups operations is currently being assessed.
33 33 Rentokil Initial plc [Corporate Responsibility] Corporate Responsibility Rentokil Initial operates an integrated approach to corporate responsibility.
It links group-wide policies on matters such as health and safety with local ownership and implementation of initiatives in every country in which it operates.
The company considers that for corporate responsibility to be In addition, Rentokil Initial continued to be ranked in the top effective, it must be aligned to business strategy in each country.
ten companies out of the 70 worldwide companies included in the Consequently, businesses have the flexibility to develop their own support services sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
initiatives to provide strategic advantage and reflect the local environment and culture.
Workplace Initiatives The chief executive, Doug Flynn, is the board director Much of the companys focus in 2006 was on improving health and responsible for corporate responsibility matters.
Within the UK, RIDDOR accidents have reduced reviews progress as part of its agenda.
To ensure there is a worldwide focus, a new scorecard The company introduced group-wide health and safety reporting process for businesses has been designed to manage health and environmental policies in 1999 with broader policies and safety more effectively.
This will be rolled out throughout the since 2001.
These can be found on the corporate website, group in 2007.
Also, in the UK a central accident reporting scheme www.
com, together with the 2006 corporate called Success Is No Accident was introduced for the reporting of responsibility annual review.
employee accidents and near misses.
This provides greater The information in the review demonstrates the range and information, with management control for both managers and depth of the companys activities.
It represents ongoing work, customers, and enables early effective medical support to employees demonstrating that these activities are part of normal who may have been injured.
For the first time, the company introduced a survey of employees In 2006, for the second year running Rentokil Initial was in attitudes starting with the global pest control and tropical plants the top 100 companies within the Business in the Community businesses.
Responses averaged overall a very high 93% in the Corporate Responsibility Index.
The company was ranked 84th USA over 97%, 74% and 79% in the Netherlands and the an improvement on the previous years position of 91st.
TOWARDS BEST PRACTICE Skills Council and other partners to qualifications for supervisors and the Initial Facilities Services employs 30,000 provide training in basic skills such as UKs first accredited qualification into the people, 55% of whom are women.
understanding and prevention of MRSA operates in an industry tarnished by and other healthcare-acquired infections.
a reputation for low skills and poor A number of other workplace initiatives are labour practices.
Our business has set underway, including: itself an objective to be the employer employee benefit schemes: of choice in its industry.
At the same time, Initial Hospital Services employee opinion surveys: and During 2006 work continued on developing developed a new training programme called improved employee communications.
Basic Skills amongst employees who are Initial First.
This features courses with disadvantaged in this area.
Relationships BICSc, National Vocational Qualifications, have been formed with the Learning and food hygiene qualifications, 34
