Finance Directors review Andrew Shilston Results for the year Underlying profit before tax increased by 19 per cent to 705 million 2005 593 million, and underlying earnings per ordinary share were 29.81p 2005 24.48p.
Basic earnings per ordinary share were 57.32p 2005 20.11p.
Organic sales growth Underlying sales increased by 14 per cent.
While civil aerospace engine deliveries reduced by three per cent to 856 engines, underlying original equipment revenues grew by 15 per cent, as a result of the increase of high-value products in the sales mix.
Underlying civil services revenues grew by 15 per cent.
Underlying defence aerospace sales increased by 13 per cent, with an 18 per cent increase in original equipment sales and an eight per cent increase in services revenues.
Underlying marine sales increased by 18 per cent, with continued strong growth in the offshore oil & gas support market sector.
Underlying energy sales were almost flat, with a 14 per cent increase in services revenues offsetting a decline in original equipment sales.
Underlying Group aftermarket services revenues grew by 13 per cent to 3.9 billion and have grown by ten per cent per annum compound over the past ten years.
Service revenues accounted for 53 per cent of total revenues.
Eighty-seven per cent of sales were to customers outside the UK.
Underlying profit margins before financing costs were relatively flat with some improvement in demand, continuing growth in services sales and our focus on cost reduction mitigating headwinds caused by commodity price inflation and an adverse trend in our achieved US dollar exchange rate.
Underlying financing costs amounted to 43 million 2005 86 million, comprising principally net interest 18 million and risk and revenue sharing partners finance cost 27 million.
As reported with the interim results we are now excluding net post-retirement finance costs from the underlying financing costs, as they are not related to the operational performance of the Group.
Restructuring charges of 47 million 2005 48 million, which were incurred for ongoing operational improvements, were included within operating costs.
We have continued to improve our financial performance whilst increasing our levels of investment in the business.
1 9% 31% 31% 705m 303m 370m Underlying profit Investment in property, Net research and before tax plant and equipment development Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 32 Business review Profit before tax was 1,391 million 2005 477 million.
engines and systems, monitoring the equipment in On the basis described below, underlying profit before service to deliver the system availability our customers tax was 705 million 2005 593 million.
The adjustments require with predictable costs.
The pricing of such are detailed in note 2 on page 69. contracts reflects their long-term nature.
Revenues and The Group is exposed to fluctuations in foreign costs are recognised based on the stage of completion currency exchange rates and commodity price of the contract, generally measured by reference to flying movements.
These exposures are mitigated through hours.
The overall net position of assets and liabilities on the use of currency and commodity derivatives for the balance sheet for TotalCare packages was an asset which the Group does not apply hedge accounting.
As a result, reported earnings do not reflect the economic substance of derivatives that have been closed out in the Cash financial year, but do include unrealised gains and losses Rising volumes and good management of costs resulted on derivatives which will only affect cash flows when in the Group averaging a net cash surplus throughout they are closed out at some point in the future.
The Group cash flow statement is shown in Underlying earnings are presented on a basis that the financial statements.
The Group generated a positive shows the economic substance of the Groups hedging cash flow of 491 million during 2006 2005 552 million.
strategies in respect of transactional exchange rate and The net cash balance at the year-end was 826 million commodity price movements.
The average net debt level position and costs denominated in US dollars and Euros are improved from 260 million to an average cash surplus presented on the basis of the exchange rates achieved of 150 million.
Net cash flow from operating activities in the year, b similar adjustments are made in respect was 1,072 million 2005 1,060 million.
Positive cash of commodity derivatives, and c consequential flow is expected again in 2007, before any additional adjustments are made to reflect the impact of exchange cash injection into the pension funds.
rates on monetary assets and liabilities and long-term contracts on a consistent basis.
Taxation A final payment to ordinary shareholders of 5.92p The overall tax charge on the profit before tax was is proposed making a total of 9.59p per ordinary share 397 million 2005 130 million a rate of 28.5 per cent 2005 8.72p, a ten per cent increase over the payment 2005 27.3 per cent.
The Company will continue to issue B Shares The tax charge was reduced by 19 million in place of dividends in order to accelerate the recovery 2005 18 million in respect of the expected benefit of its advance corporation tax.
of the UK research and development tax credit.
The tax charge on underlying profit was Order book 190 million 2005 170 million a rate of 27.0 per cent The order book at December 31, 2006 at constant 2005 28.6 per cent.
exchange rates, was 26.1 billion 2005 24.4 billion.
The operation of most tax systems, including the This included firm business that was announced but for availability of specific tax deductions, means that there which contracts had not yet been signed of 1.7 billion is often a delay between the Group tax charge and 2005 1.5 billion.
the related tax payments, to the benefit of cash flow.
In civil aerospace it is common for a customer to The Group operates internationally and is subject take options for future orders in addition to firm orders to tax in many differing jurisdictions.
Such options are excluded from the order book.
the Group is routinely subject to tax audits and In defence aerospace, long-term programmes examinations which by their nature can take a are often ordered for only one year at a time.
In such considerable period to conclude.
Provision is made for circumstances, even though there may be no alternative known issues based on managements interpretation engine choice available to the customer, only the of country specific legislation and the likely outcome.
contracted business is included in the order book.
The Group seeks to minimise its tax burden in a Aftermarket services agreements, including TotalCare manner which is consistent with its commercial packages, represented 38 per cent of the order book.
objectives and meets its legal obligations and ethical These are long-term contracts where only the first seven standards.
While every effort is made to maximise the yearsrevenue is included in the order book.
tax efficiency of its business transactions, the Group does not look to use artificial structures in its tax planning.
Aftermarket services The Group has regard for the intention of the legislation The Group continues to be successful in developing its concerned rather than just the wording itself.
The Group aftermarket services activities.
These grew by 13 per cent is committed to building open relationships with tax on an underlying basis in 2006 and accounted for 53 per authorities and to follow a policy of full disclosure in cent of Group revenue.
order to effect the timely settlement of its tax affairs In particular, TotalCare packages in the civil aerospace and to remove uncertainty in its business transactions.
sector now cover 48 per cent, by value, of the installed fleet.
TotalCare packages cover long-term management of the maintenance and associated logistics for our Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 33 Finance Directors review continued Pensions Intangible assets As for 2005, the charges for pensions are calculated The Group carried forward 1,460 million 2005 in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 1,315 million, restated of intangible assets.
purchased goodwill of 735 million, engine certification Details of the pensionscharge and the defined costs and participation fees of 231 million, development benefit schemesassets and liabilities are shown in note costs of 290 million, recoverable engine costs of 23 to the financial statements.
This shows a net deficit, 153 million and other intangible assets of 51 million.
after taking account of deferred tax, of 681 million Total capital expenditure on property, plant and 2005 1,154 million.
Changes in this deficit are affected equipment and intangible assets is expected to increase by the assumptions made in valuing the liabilities and modestly in 2007. the market performance of the assets.
Most importantly, the discount rate used for measuring the UK defined Partnerships benefit liabilities has increased from 4.7 per cent in The development of effective partnerships continues 2005 to 5.1 per cent in 2006.
In addition, the mortality to be a key feature of the Groups long-term strategy.
assumptions have been updated for the Rolls-Royce Major partnerships are of two types: joint ventures and Pension Fund the largest scheme in the Group based on risk and revenue sharing partners.
the actual mortality experience within the scheme and also to allow for future mortality improvements.
Together Joint ventures with the better than expected returns on the scheme Joint ventures are an integral part of our business.
assets, overall, these factors have resulted in a reduction They are involved in engineering and manufacturing, of the net deficit.
repair and overhaul, and financial services.
They are also During 2006, a revised benefit structure was agreed normal business structures for companies participating with the members of the Vickers Group Pension Scheme in international, collaborative defence projects.
similar to that already agreed for the Rolls-Royce Group They share risk and investment, bring expertise Pension Scheme and the Rolls-Royce Pension Fund.
and access to markets, and provide external objectivity.
The formal report of the actuarial review as at Some of our joint ventures have become substantial March 31, 2006 in respect of the Rolls-Royce Pension businesses.
A major proportion of the debt of the joint Fund will be available by June 30, 2007. ventures is secured on the assets of the respective companies and is non-recourse to the Group.
Investments The Group continues to subject all investments to Risk and revenue sharing partners RRSPs rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad portfolio ensure that they create shareholder value.
All major of engines, thereby reducing the exposure of the investments require Board approval.
business to individual product risk.
The primary financial The Group has a portfolio of projects at different benefit is a reduction of the burden of research and stages of their life cycles.
Discounted cash flow analysis development R&D expenditure on new programmes.
of the remaining life of projects is performed on a The related R&D expenditure is expensed through regular basis.
Sales of engines in production are assessed the income statement and the initial programme receipts against criteria in the original development programme from partners, which reimburse the Group for past R&D to ensure that overall value is enhanced.
expenditure, are also recorded in the income statement, Gross research and development investment as other operating income.
RRSP agreements are a standard form of Net research and development was 370 million co-operation in the civil aero-engine industry.
The level of self-funded investment benefits to the engine manufacturer and the partner.
in research and development is expected to remain at Specifically, for the manufacturer they bring some approximately five per cent of Group sales in the future.
or all of the following benefits: additional financial The impact of this investment on the income statement and engineering resource: sharing of risk: and initial will reflect the mix and maturity of individual programme contribution.
As appropriate, the partner development programmes and will result in a similar also supplies components and as consideration for these level of net research and development reported within components, receives a share of the long-term revenues the income statement in 2007.
Investment in training generated by the engine programme in proportion to was 30 million 2005 30 million.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment was 303 million 2005 232 million.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 34 Business review The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP agreements.
Financial risk In general, partners share financial investment in the The Group uses various financial instruments in order programme: they share market risk as they receive their to manage the exposures that arise from its business return from future sales: they share currency risk as their operations as a result of movements in financial markets.
returns are denominated in US dollars: they share sales All treasury activities are focused on the management financing obligations: they share warranty costs: and, and hedging of risk.
It is the Groups policy not to trade where they are manufacturing or development partners, financial instruments or to engage in speculative financial they share technical and cost risk.
Partners that do not transactions.
There have been no significant changes in undertake development work or supply components the Groups policies in the last year.
are referred to as financial RRSPs and are accounted for The principal economic and market risks continue as financial instruments as described here.
to be movements in foreign currency exchange rates, In 2006, the Group received other operating income interest rates and commodity prices.
The Board regularly of 57 million 2005 60 million, primarily in respect reviews the Groups exposures and financial risk of the Trent 1000 engine programme.
Other operating management and a specialist committee also considers income is expected to remain at a similar level in 2007. these in detail.
All such exposures are managed by the Payments to RRSPs are recorded within cost Group Treasury function, which reports to the Finance of sales and increase as the related programme sales Director and which operates within written policies increase.
These payments amounted to 162 million approved by the Board and within the internal control 2005 146 million.
framework described in the Report of the directors.
The classification of financial RRSPs as financial instruments has resulted in a liability of 324 million Counterparty credit risk 2005 423 million being recorded in the balance The Group has an established policy towards sheet and an associated underlying financing cost managing counterparty credit risk.
A common framework of 27 million 2005 43 million recorded in the exists to measure, report and control exposures to income statement.
counterparties across the Group using Value at Risk In the past, the Group has also received government and fair value techniques.
Counterparties are assigned launch investment in respect of certain programmes.
a credit limit that reflects their credit standing.
The Group The treatment of this investment is similar to nonassigns an internal credit rating to each counterparty, financial RRSPs.
which is assessed with reference to publicly available credit information such as that provided by Moodys, Financial services Standard & Poors and other recognised market sources Following the disposal of the Groups interest in and is reviewed regularly.
Pembroke Group, an aircraft leasing joint venture, Financial instruments are only transacted with the decision was announced to cease reporting financial counterparties that have a publicly assigned long-term services as a separate activity.
Engine leasing activities credit rating from Standard & Poors of Aor better and are now recorded within civil aerospace and power from Moodys of A3or better.
ventures are recorded within energy.
Restated comparatives are shown in note 2.
Funding and liquidity The Group finances its operations through a mixture of Risk management shareholdersfunds, bank borrowings, bonds, notes and The Board has an established, structured approach finance leases.
The Group borrows in the major global to risk management.
The risk committee see Report markets in a range of currencies.
of the directors has accountability for the system of risk It employs derivatives where appropriate to generate management and reporting the key risks and associated the desired currency and interest rate profile.
The Director of Risk reports to the 62 million of borrowing facilities matured during Finance Director.
The Groups policy is to preserve 2006.
This was replaced by a new 200 million borrowing the resources upon which its continuing reputation, facility relating to research and development established viability and profitability are built, to enable the corporate with the European Investment Bank EIB.
As at objectives to be achieved through the operation of December 31, 2006 the Group had total committed the Rolls-Royce business processes.
Risks are formally borrowing facilities of 1.8 billion 2005 1.7 billion.
identified and recorded in a corporate risk register and There are no rating triggers contained in any of its subsidiary registers within the businesses, which are the Groups facilities that could require the Group to reviewed and updated on a regular basis, with risk accelerate or repay any facility for a given movement mitigation plans identified for all significant risks.
in the Groups credit rating and no material impact on the Groups interest charge is expected to arise from a movement in the Groups credit rating.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 35 The Group holds financial investments and maintains The Group is exposed to a number of foreign currencies.
undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to The most significant transactional currency exposure ensure the Group has available funds to meet its is the US dollar followed by the Euro.
medium-term capital and funding obligations and The Group manages its exposure to movements to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
in exchange rates at two levels: The Group holds cash and short-term investments 1 Revenues and costs are currency matched where it is which, together with the undrawn committed facilities, economic to do so.
The Group actively seeks to source enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
suppliers with the relevant currency cost base to avoid The Group continues to have access to all the the risk or to flow down the risk to those suppliers that major global debt markets.
are capable of managing it.
Currency risk is also a prime consideration when deciding where to locate new Credit rating facilities.
US dollar income, net of US dollar costs The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service represented 26 per cent of Group turnover in 2006 and Standard & Poors for its official publicised credit 2005 27 per cent.
As at December 31, 2006 the Groups assigned long-term credit ratings were: 2 Residual currency exposure is hedged via the financial markets.
The Group operates a hedging policy using Rating agency Rating Outlook Category a variety of financial instruments with the objective of minimising the impact of fluctuations in exchange Moodys A3 Stable Investment grade rates on future transactions and cash flows.
Standard The permitted range of the amount of cover taken is & Poors AStable Investment grade determined by the written policies set by the Board, based on known and forecast income levels.
The Group saw positive rating actions from both rating The forward cover is managed within the parameters agencies during the year reflecting the improved of these policies in order to achieve the Groups business and financial profile of the Group.
Standard & objectives, having regard to the Groups view of longPoors upgraded the Groups rating fromBBB toAterm exchange rates.
Forward cover is in the form of in June 2006 and Moodys upgraded its rating for the standard foreign exchange contracts and instruments Group fromBaa1toA3in November 2006. on which the exchange rates achieved are dependent on As a long-term business, the Group attaches future interest rates.
The Group may also write currency significant importance to maintaining an investment options against a portion of the unhedged dollar income grade credit rating, which it views as necessary for the at a rate which is consistent with the Groups long-term business to operate effectively.
At the end of 2006 the Group had The Groups objective is to maintain anAcategory approximately US$10 billion of forward cover 2005 investment grade credit rating from both agencies.
The consequence of this policy has been to Currency risk maintain relatively stable long-term foreign exchange The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates.
Note 20 includes the impact of revaluing forward rates for both foreign currency transactions and the currency contracts at market values on December 31, translation of net assets and income statements of 2006, showing a value of 554 million 2005 228 million foreign subsidiaries.
which will fluctuate with exchange rates over time.
The Group regards its interests in overseas subsidiary The Group has entered into these forward contracts as companies as long-term investments.
The Group part of the hedging policy, described above, in order to has tended to manage its translational exposures through mitigate the impact of volatile exchange rates.
the currency matching of assets and liabilities where applicable.
The matching is reviewed regularly.
Appropriate risk mitigation is undertaken where material mismatches arise.
Market exchange rates 2006 2005 US$ per Year-end spot rate 1.957 1.717 Average spot rate 1.844 1.820 per Year-end spot rate 1.484 1.455 Average spot rate 1.467 1.463 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 36 Business review Interest rate risk The Group seeks to minimise the level of exposure The Group uses fixed rate bonds and floating rate debt from sales finance commitments by: as funding sources.
The Groups policy is to maintain the use of third-party non-recourse debt where a proportion of its debt at fixed rates of interest having appropriate: regard to the prevailing interest rate outlook.
To implement this policy the Group may utilise a combination of the transfer, sale, or reinsurance of risks: and interest-rate swaps, forward-rate agreements and interestensuring the proportionate flow down of risk and rate caps to manage the exposure.
Commodity risk Each of the above forms an active part of the Groups The Group has an ongoing exposure to the price of jet exposure management process.
fuel and base metals arising from business operations.
Where exposures arise, the strategy has been, The Groups objective is to minimise the impact of price and continues to be, to assume where possible liquid fluctuations.
The exposure is hedged in accordance with forms of financing commitment that may be sold or parameters contained in a written policy set by the Board.
transferred to third parties when the opportunity arises.
Note 30 to the accounts describes the Groups Sales financing contingent liabilities.
In connection with the sale of its products, the Group There were no material changes to the Groups will, on some occasions, provide financing support for gross and net contingent liabilities in this respect in 2006. its customers.
This may involve the Group guaranteeing financing for customers, providing asset-value guarantees Accounting standards AVGs on aircraft for a proportion of their expected future The consolidated financial statements have been value, or entering into leasing transactions.
prepared in accordance with International Financial The Group manages and monitors its sales finance Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
related exposures to customers and products within In 2006, the Group has adopted the amendments written policies approved by the Board and within to IAS 39 Financial Instruments and IFRS 4 Financial the internal framework described in the Report of Guarantee Contracts, resulting in sales financing the directors.
The contingent liabilities represent commitments being classified as insurance contracts.
the maximum discounted aggregate gross and net This change has no impact on the reported results.
exposure that the Group has in respect of delivered Other new standards, amendments to standards aircraft, regardless of the point in time at which such and interpretations effective in 2006 do not have a exposures may arise.
significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
The Group uses Airclaims Limited as an independent A summary of other changes, which have not been appraiser to value its security portfolio at both the adopted in 2006, is included within the accounting half-year and year-end.
Airclaims provides specific values policies in note 1 to the financial statements.
both current and forecast future values for each asset in the security portfolio.
These values are then used to Share price assess the Groups net exposure.
During the year the Rolls-Royce share price increased The permitted levels of gross and net exposure are by five per cent from 427.5p to 447.75p per share, limited in aggregate, by counterparty, by product type compared to a seven per cent increase for the aerospace and by calendar year.
The Groups gross exposures are and defence sector and an 11 per cent increase for the divided approximately 60:40 between AVGs and credit FTSE 100.
The Companys shares ranged in price from guarantees.
They are spread over many years and relate 379.5p in June to 490p in April.
to a number of customers and a broad product portfolio.
The number of ordinary shares in issue at the end The Board regularly reviews the Groups sales finance of the year was 1,781 million, an increase of 22 million related exposures and risk management activities.
of which 8 million related to share options and 14 million Each financing commitment is subject to a credit and related to conversion of B Shares into ordinary shares.
asset review process and prior approval in accordance The average number of ordinary shares in issue with Board delegations of authority.
The Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing Andrew Shilston model to assess risk and exposure.
Finance Director February 7, 2007 Costs and exposures associated with providing financing support are incorporated in any decision to secure new business.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 37
