charge of 2m compares with net income last year of 25m.
This year-on-year change of 27m results primarily from the heavy investment, through acquisition and refurbishment, in new stores for Primark.
profit before tax fell from 527m to 419m reecting an exceptional charge of 97m for the costs of closing two British Sugar factories and a 16m increase in the intangible amortisation charge arising on recent acquisitions together with the small net loss on the sale of xed assets and businesses.
Adjusted to exclude these items, profit before tax fell 4% from 580m to 559m.
Taxation The tax charge of 111m included an underlying charge The group invested a of 150m, at an effective tax rate of 26.8% on the net 760m in capital adjusted profit before tax described above.
The effective tax rate has reduced from 27.4% as a result of an expenditure and increase in the profits subject to lower tax rates.
The overall tax charge for the year benefited from a 13m acquisitions during 2005 7m credit for tax relief on the amortisation of intangible assets and goodwill arising from recent asset the year.
This credit, together with the tax effect of the other exceptional items, has been excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share.
Earnings and dividends Group performance Earnings attributable to equity shareholders reduced Group sales increased by 7% to 5,996m and operating by 78m to 301m and the weighted average number profit, adjusted to exclude exceptional items, the of shares in issue was 790 million.
Earnings per ordinary amortisation of intangibles and profits on the sale of share therefore fell by 21% from 48.0p to 38.1p.
A more property, plant & equipment, increased by 1% to 561m.
consistent measure of performance is provided by the adjusted earnings per share which excludes the provision The small improvement in adjusted operating profit before for the British Sugar factory closures, profits on the exceptional items was delivered despite much higher sale and closure of businesses and xed assets and energy costs and the significant reduction from British the amortisation of intangibles net of any tax benefit.
Sugar arising from sugar regime reform.
This was offset Adjusted earnings per share fell by 3% from 52.5p by another strong performance from Primark and good to 50.9p.
progress in many of our food and ingredients businesses.
The interim dividend was increased by 4% to 6.25p and The disposal of properties, plant & equipment a final dividend has been proposed at 12.5p which resulted in a profit of 10m compared with 20m represents an overall increase of 4% for the year.
Additional costs of 8m have been charged accordance with IFRS, no accrual has been made in these in respect of the closure of the former Littlewoods accounts for the proposed dividend which is expected to business following the decision to cease trading earlier cost 99m and will be charged next year.
The dividend than previously envisaged, resulting in higher void costs is covered, on an adjusted basis, 2.7 times.
prior to disposal of the stores not required by Primark.
These additional costs were more than compensated Balance sheet by the higher than anticipated trading profit generated Non-current assets increased by 761m to 4,392m due through the closure process which are reflected in to the acquisitions in the year, principally Illovo, and a operating profit.
A loss of 4m was incurred on the level of capital expenditure signicantly higher than disposal during the year of three small businesses in depreciation with continued investment in Primark.
The use of current asset investments to finance the Financial income and financial expenses in the income acquisition of Illovo has resulted in net borrowings of statement include the gross amounts in respect of the 298m at the year end compared with net cash funds groups defined benefit pension schemes.
Working capital, including tax 22 Financial review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Financial review accruals and provisions, increased by 204m, of which investment instrument.
Aggregate limits for each 131m is accounted for by the inclusion of Illovo.
category of investment and risk exposure are set for each manager.
The net surplus in the groups dened benefit pension schemes, employee benefit assets less liabilities, increased The groups UK cash balances are managed by a central from 76m last year to 127m this year.
treasury department operating under strictly controlled guidelines, which also arranges term bank finance for The groups net assets increased by 305m to 4,182m.
acquisitions and to meet short-term working capital requirements particularly for the sugar beet harvest.
A currency loss of 74m arose on the translation into Since the year end the Company has renanced its sterling of the groups non-sterling net assets.
This external borrowings and has negotiated a multicurrency resulted from a strengthening of sterling against most $1.2bn syndicated loan facility with a term of five years overseas currencies year-on-year.
with two one-year extension options.
It will be used for general corporate purposes.
The new facility has been The high level of investment made this year in acquisitions provided by our existing bank group.
and capital expenditure has resulted in a decline in return on capital employed for the group from 23.6% to 18.9%.
A number of the groups businesses are exposed to Return on capital employed is defined as operating changes in exchange rates on sales and purchases made profit before exceptional items and the amortisation of in foreign currencies and to changes in commodity prices.
intangibles expressed as a percentage of average capital British Sugar is exposed to movements in the euro employed for the year.
exchange rate on the price of sugar in the UK and Poland, Primark sources garments from overseas primarily in US Cash flow dollars and many businesses purchase raw materials in Net cash flow from operating activities was 419m foreign currencies largely US dollar denominated.
This reduction is primarily the result of an adverse working capital movement yearsignificant cross-border transactions are covered by on-year of 75m and the use of the provision established forward purchases and sales of foreign currency, or last year for the closure of the former Littlewoods stores.
foreign currency options as appropriate.
The majority of the groups commodity exposures are managed The group invested a net 760m in capital expenditure through forward purchase or futures contracts with only and acquisitions during the year.
Capital expenditure very limited use being made of options.
All derivative amounted to 432m of which 221m was spent on the transactions are tightly controlled within set limits and acquisition of new stores and the refitting of existing speculative trading is not undertaken.
The balance was used principally to upgrade, modernise and expand existing manufacturing The group does not hedge the translation effect of facilities.
382m was spent on the Illovo acquisition, exchange rate movements on the income statement.
including debt assumed, and a further 114m was spent on the acquisitions of smaller businesses to complement Financial reporting standards and accounting policies our grocery, animal feed and ingredients operations.
The financial statements for the year ended 16 September 181m was realised from the disposal of property, 2006 have been prepared in accordance with plant & equipment, principally the surplus former International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Littlewoods stores.
as endorsed and adopted for use in the EU.
The results for the comparative year ended 17 September 2005 are Treasury policy and controls also presented in accordance with IFRS.
Accounting The groups cash and current asset investments totalled policies applicable under IFRS are set out on pages 402m at the year end including 75m placed with 52 to 57.
The provisions of IAS 32 and IAS 39 have professional investment managers who have full discretion been adopted with effect from 18 September 2005. to act within closely monitored and agreed guidelines.
Reconciliations between primary statements produced under UK GAAP and IFRS, together with explanations of The investment objective is to preserve the underlying the principal differences, are provided in note 34 to the assets, whilst achieving a satisfactory return.
investment guidelines are kept under constant review with the objective of monitoring and controlling risk levels.
The guidelines require that investments must carry a minimum credit rating of AAA1 for longand short-term paper respectively, and also set down conditions relating to sovereign risk, length John Bason of maturity, exchange rate exposure and type of Finance Director 23 Financial review Annual Report & Accounts 2006
