99 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Smiths Group plc for the period ended 5 August 2006 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Parent Company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company financial Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation Smiths Group plc for the year ended 5 August 2006. of the Parent Company financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report and the Parent Company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Responsibilities.
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and of the presentation of information in the Parent Company financial International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys be audited.
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Opinion Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, In our opinion: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 5 August 2006: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Parent the parent company financial statements.
Company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and  LLP explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is London not disclosed.
29 September 2006 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility financial statements.
The other information comprises only the of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes Summary Performance Statement, the Operating and Financial that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, on the website.
the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Five Year Review.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
