49 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Smiths Group plc Performance Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, for the period ended 5 August 2006 which comprise the consolidated the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Five Year Review.
cash-flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised We consider the implications for our report if we become aware income and expense and the related notes.
These Group financial of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Basis of audit opinion statements of Smiths Group plc for the period ended 5 August 2006 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in information and explanations which we considered necessary accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Opinion whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior In our opinion: consent in writing.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial state of the Groups affairs as at 5 August 2006 and of its profit and statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the cash-flows for the period then ended: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in report to you whether, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not Regulation: and received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects  LLP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 29 September 2006 control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Notes effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility its risk and control procedures.
of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes We read other information contained in the Annual Report and that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial on the website.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the Summary financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
