12 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review The table below shows overall performance on a headline basis.
Operating review 2006 2005 m m Increase Group activities Smiths is a global applied technology business serving Sales 3,523 3,005 17% aerospace, medical devices, detection and specialty Headline: engineering markets.
operating profit 520 416 25% pre-tax profit 492 404 22% Strategy earnings per share 64.8p 52.8p 23% Smiths is committed to creating long-term value for Compared with sterling, the average exchange rate of the US shareholders by building and sustaining strong businesses dollar strengthened by 3% year-on-year, whereas the average in growth sectors.
euro exchange rate was unchanged.
The effect of currency The Companys objective is to create value from organic translation is identified for the Company, and for each division, growth and from reinvestment of self-generated cash-flow.
in the relevant paragraphs below.
Adjustments are made to the business mix through both acquisitions and disposals to enhance value for shareholders.
Sales Sales were 3,523m, an increase of 17% over the 3,005m Changes in Group composition achieved in 2005.
During the period Smiths acquired four businesses for a total The translation of sales of overseas business units at this of 52m.
These became part of the Specialty Engineering and years average exchange rates increased sales by 2%.
Smiths sold three businesses during the year for a total of 22m.
Further details of these changes are Excluding the effect of both acquisitions and currency given in the relevant divisional paragraphs below and in notes translation, sales grew by 9%.
All four divisions contributed 28 and 29 to the accounts.
Medical showed the strongest growth, assisted by the full-year contribution from Medex.
Further detail of Included in these disposals is the sale of Smiths interests each divisions growth is shown in the divisional paragraphs.
in Heimann Biometric Systems GmbH to Cross Match Profit Technologies Inc. in exchange for 43% of the issued share Headline operating profit increased from 416m to 520m, capital in that company.
Performance Excluding the effect of both acquisitions and currency The key Smiths performance indicators are sales, profits and translation, headline operating profit grew by 11%, with cash generation which are closely monitored throughout the all four divisions contributing to the growth.
year and measured against pre-set targets.
The operating profit on a statutory basis, after taking account In this review, you will see references to headline profit as of exceptional items including impairment, amortisation well as to the various statutory measures of profit.
This is of intangible assets acquired in a business combination, because the Company believes that headline profit provides profit or loss on disposal of businesses and financing losses, valuable additional information on underlying trends, and it is amounted to 161m.
This compares with 382m in 2005. used by management to measure and monitor performance.
Normal restructuring costs are charged against headline The translation of the headline operating profit of overseas profit, while the following items are excluded: business units at this years average exchange rates increased profits by 3%.
exceptional items including impairments : Headline pre-tax profit was 492m, a 22% increase over the amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business 404m achieved in 2005. combination: Profit before tax on a statutory basis was 132m compared profit or loss on disposal of businesses: and with 366m in 2005. other financing gains and losses.
13 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued Cash generation Interest and other financing costs Smiths places considerable emphasis on cash generation, Interest payable on debt, less interest on cash deposits, was with the objective of providing resources for the growth of 54m, compared with 23m in 2005.
The 31m increase is the business both organically and by acquisition.
In 2006 the principally due to the cost of financing acquisitions, mainly Company achieved significant organic growth in addition to last years acquisition of Medex, which resulted in higher net acquisitive growth.
Rising US interest rates also contributed to the increase.
The net interest costs were 9.6 times covered Smiths measures operating cash-flow as a ratio to headline by headline operating profits.
operating profit, with a target of at least 75% depending on the level of investment in capitalised development costs.
For The Group accounts for pensions using IAS 19, under this purpose, operating cash-flow is measured before the cash which the overall retirement benefit cost is analysed into impact of exceptional items and special pension payments two elements, one of which is treated as a financing item.
and after expenditure on property, equipment, software and This financing item was income of 28m in 2006, compared development costs.
with 11m in 2005, reflecting the strengthening of the funding position of the pension schemes.
Under IAS 19 The operating cash-flow on this basis was 420m, representing the administration costs of funded pension schemes are 81% of headline operating profit: greater than the 259m to be treated as a component of pensions financing.
The increase reflects the timing of payments on major defence programmes, as well Exceptional and other items excluded from headline profits as organic business growth and improvements in managing Exceptional operating items were 340m, compared with working capital.
On a statutory basis, net cash inflow from 28m in 2005.
325m in respect of the write down of TI Automotive Cash expenditure on exceptional items was 17m, compared preference shares.
Recognising continued deterioration in with 10m in 2005. the automotive component market, particularly in the US, an impairment review of the preference share investment During the current year the Company made a special 61m in TI Automotive has been undertaken, as required by IAS 39. contribution to facilitate UK pension scheme mergers involving The preference shares have not yet borne any dividends, under-funded schemes.
and it is considered unlikely that dividends will be paid in the Free cash-flow after interest and tax but before acquisitions foreseeable future.
Similarly, there is no current prospect and dividends was 170m, compared with 147m in 2005. of the preference shares being redeemed.
The Board has The higher free cash-flow reflects the improved operating also considered whether cash-flows could accrue from the cash-flow referred to above, offset by higher tax and interest investment in TI Automotive were the enterprise to be sold: payments than in 2005.
It is also stated after the special such a sale is not currently considered sufficiently probable pension contribution of 61m.
to take into account any cash-flows which could accrue in such an event.
As a result, the Board has decided to write Dividends paid in the year amounted to 167m, compared down the carrying value of the investment in the TI Automotive with 154m in 2005. preference shares from 325m to nil value in the accounts.
Acquisitions and disposals resulted in a net expenditure of There is no cash impact from this decision: 46m, compared with 410m in 2005.
19m for integration costs associated with the Medex Earnings per share acquisition, including provisions for the closure of Headline earnings per share increased from 52.8p to 64.8p, manufacturing facilities 2005: 10m.
Further costs an increase of 23%.
of about 20m are expected for the completion of the Medex integration: Earnings per share on a statutory basis were 4.3p, compared with 48.3p in 2005. profit on disposal of businesses of 16m 2005: 9m : and settlement of a product liability class action of 12m.
14 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued May 2006 Bringing technology Explosives detectors on trial on the London Underground to life in 2005 06 Smiths took part in high-profile security trials on the Tube this year.
We supplied Canary Wharf and Greenford stations with a document scanner to test Tube tickets and Oyster cards for explosives, an x-ray machine to scan passenger bags and a hand-held explosives detector.
The amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business Divisional developments and performance combinations amounted to 17m 2005: 6m.
The amortisation Smiths Aerospace relates principally to technology and customer relationships.
Group Managing Director: Dr John Ferrie CBE Financing costs amounted to 3m 2005: 4m.
These Description: Smiths Aerospace has two business units: Smiths represent the results of derivatives and other financing Aerospace Systems and Smiths Aerospace Components.
The first instruments which are not hedge accounted under IFRS.
Of designs, manufactures and provides in-service support for digital, this sum, 2.8m 2005: nil was charged to operating profit.
electrical and mechanical systems for military and commercial aircraft: the second supplies high-value components to the principal aircraft Net debt engine manufacturers.
Across the division, military sales account for Net debt at year end was 923m, compared with 931m at 54% and commercial for 46%.
Employees: 10,900 Research and development Principal operating regions: Manufacturing is concentrated in the US Investment in research and development R&D drives future and UK.
performance and is a measure of the Companys commitment Contribution to 2006 Group sales: 37% to the future organic growth of the business.
Smiths invested a total of 352m in R&D, equivalent to 10% of sales.
Of that total, 159m was funded by customers.
The comparative figures for 2005 were 295m and 152m.
Under Key customers: Customers include major airframe platform and engine manufacturers worldwide, and, for service and support, defence IFRS, certain of these development costs are capitalised.
gross capitalisation is shown as an intangible asset.
Where customers contribute to the costs of development, the contribution is included as deferred income and disclosed Business developments within trade and other payables.
During the year Smiths Aerospace formed a partnership with Aviall Services to distribute the complete range of Smiths R&D is discussed further in the divisional paragraphs below.
This agreement is expected to cover sales totalling US$2bn over the next 10 years, taking advantage of Avialls specialist global network and advanced logistics, and will improve the efficiency of working capital.
Smiths Aerospace Components entered into three long-term supply agreements with GE Aviation.
These include contracts to supply the full combustor assembly for the GEnx family of engines: a 29.3% share of a J85 upgrade kit to be supplied to the US Air Force: and a contract to machine critical rotating parts such as disks and shafts across the full range of GE engines.
In order to support the latter, a new facility was opened in North Carolina, US.
Smiths Aerospace continues to streamline business processes and use lower-cost locations or outsourcing as alternatives for lower-value-added work.
During the year, progress continued on the development of shared service centres and various manufacturing site consolidations.
Smiths Aerospaces facility in Suzhou, China increased its capacity during the year.
Markets Smiths Aerospace serves both military and commercial aerospace markets.
Military is the larger market for Smiths, accounting for 54% of the divisions sales.
15 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued August 2006 Smiths selected to provide components on Boeing 787 Dreamliner engine Rolls-Royce awarded Smiths Aerospace a contract worth a potential $20m per year through 2012 for engine parts on the Trent 1000 engine for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
Military Performance 2006 2005 In 2006, the overall global market for advanced military aircraft m m Increase continued to be stable.
The chart below shows the trend in the Sales 1,300 1,146 13% build of fixed-wing military aircraft, expressed in units.
Headline operating profit 152 132 15% 500 400 Sales 300 Sales rose by 13%.
The translation of the results of US 200 businesses at a higher dollar exchange rate increased 100 2006 2007 reported sales by 2%.
0 2002 2003 2004 2005 est est Underlying business growth varied by sector.
Sales to the New major programmes such as F A-18 E F and Eurofighter commercial market increased by more than 25% benefiting are reaching full-rate production and are key contributors to from increased production of Boeing 737, 777 and Airbus A320 stabilising the market.
Particular successes were Smiths selection by Boeing to provide the Thrust Reverser Actuation System TRAS for the Commercial 747-8 and also an agreement to support its GoldCare service Demand in the commercial market followed a different trend solution for Boeing 787 Dreamliner operators.
The number of commercial jets built by Airbus and Boeing is shown by the chart below.
In addition, the components business secured a long-term contract from Rolls-Royce for engine components on the 1,000 Trent 1000 engine for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
800 600 Sales of defence equipment increased by 5%.
Activity on 400 military development remained high, particularly on C130 200 2006 2007 AMP, F-35 JSF and 767 Tanker.
The first flights of the C130 2002 2003 2004 2005 est est 0 AMP and JSF are planned in the latter half of 2006.
The 767 Tanker programme experienced some schedule changes Between 2001 and 2003, commercial jet production build rates and additional investment in meeting initial commitments for fell by a third.
2004 saw a small increase and in 2005 the rate Italy and Japan.
Meanwhile, the process for replacing the US increased by 10%.
An increase of 23% is forecast for 2006, with KC135 tankers has now begun.
Defence aftermarket sales strong growth continuing in 2007. were level with the prior year.
As in the military market, the success of the actual aircraft Key defence contracts won included the selection of Smiths and engines that have high Smiths content is a key factor.
For to supply the new SDS-5000 large area cockpit display system Smiths, the most important commercial aircraft in current for the new Future Lynx Helicopter by AgustaWestland, and production are the Boeing 737, the Boeing 777 and the Airbus to provide the next generation Health and Usage Monitoring A320 family.
The build rate for narrow-bodied jets B737 and System HUMS for both the Future Lynx and for the South A320 is forecast to increase by 21% in 2006 with demand Korean Helicopter Programme.
for the 737 expected to be particularly strong.
In addition, production of the 777 in 2006 is expected to increase by 50%.
Headline operating profit Headline operating profit rose by 15%.
The profit increase Aftermarket reflects higher volume, including the initial supply of goods to The aftermarket for further sales and service, once aircraft Aviall, together with improved cost control.
Profit improvement are in operation, is important in both the commercial and was, however, held back by higher R&D costs.
The largest driver of aftermarket demand basis, operating profit was 146m 2005: 120m.
In 2006, commercial air traffic is estimated to grow by 6%, while usage of military aircraft remains stable.
16 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued Research and development R&D Smiths Detection Investment in R&D, whether charged against profit or Group Managing Director: Stephen Phipson capitalised, increased to 273m 2005: 223m, including 148m 2005: 141m funded by customers.
R&D is discussed Description: Smiths Detection is a prime contractor and designs and manufactures equipment to detect and identify explosives, weapons, more fully in the forward-looking section below.
Queens Award for Enterprise It has an unrivalled range of technologies, including trace detection, Smiths won the UK Queens Award for Enterprise 2006 in x-ray, millimetre wave, infra-red and biological agent analysis.
Innovation for its Remote Interface Unit RIU product family Employees: 2,000 which has the ability to digitise signals such as voltage, current, frequency and temperature, and effectively communicate Principal operating regions: Manufacturing is concentrated in North America, Germany, France and the UK.
these to a large number of aircraft systems over the central nervous system of a modern airliner.
Contribution to 2006 Group sales: 12% Forward-looking issues Smiths Aerospace has, for the last several years, invested increasingly in R&D and in low-cost facilities to secure Key customers: Some 85% of sales are made direct to governments positions on future programmes and drive revenue growth around the world including homeland security authorities, customs and in future years.
immigration authorities, emergency responders and the military.
Military On the military side, Smiths has high content on the platforms Business developments which have prospects of significant sales over the years ahead.
Smiths Detection acquired Livewave, Inc. in October 2005 Unlike the commercial business, Smiths military sales are less for 10m.
Livewave has developed software systems which concentrated in a few key programmes.
Particular original connect sensors and video cameras through a network to equipment programmes of importance to Smiths are the F-18, remote viewing stations.
Livewaves technology enables F-35, Eurofighter Typhoon, Apache Longbow and Future Lynx Smiths Detection to provide a complete package of sensors helicopters.
Update programmes include the C130 AMP.
ranging from x-ray to chemical detectors and CCTV in a single system, linked to a central command and control capability.
Commercial In the commercial business, prospects are supported by In June, Smiths Detection opened its first manufacturing firm business: the Airbus A380: the Boeing 787: and key facility in Russia.
The new plant in St Petersburg will assemble engine programmes, notably GEnx, Trent 1000, the CFM56 x-ray equipment and is a base for both sales and technical for narrow bodies, and the CF34 for regional jets.
Further, support staff to serve the growing Russian security market.
the value of Smiths products on the A380 and B787 is much Smiths Heimann Biometrics GmbH SHB was merged with higher than on older generation aircraft.
Cross Match Technologies, Inc. in August 2005 in exchange The last several years of high self funded investment have for 43% of the issued share capital of that company.
Smiths been dominated by three programmes: A380, 767 Tanker, investment in Cross Match is accounted for on an equity basis.
The first two are now effectively complete so R&D Markets expenditure will reduce accordingly.
Smiths Detections products serve the transportation, critical The division is expecting to see further strong growth in the infrastructure, ports and borders, military and emergency commercial aircraft sector during the current year.
The Company also adapts technology longer term, recent successful selection for new commercial developed for these markets for carefully selected industrial and military programmes should ensure a positive outlook for applications.
Within transportation and critical infrastructure, growth is being driven by central and local governments and other agencies which are putting in place security systems, for example in airports and transport networks.
Individual contracts can be large, causing the overall market to be volatile year-on-year.
17 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued July 2006 Smiths detectors deployed in New York The New York Police Department purchased and deployed Smiths hand-held explosives detectors on the New York subway.
Our detectors enable the NYPD to screen passengers for explosives quickly and non-intrusively.
The ports and borders market is experiencing growth caused In addition Smiths Detection equipment is now being used both by security considerations and by authorities aiming to on the New York and Prague subways and has been trialled reduce contraband through clamping down on those avoiding at a commuter station in Maryland, US and on the London payment of duty.
The US Container Screening Initiative CSI Underground.
in particular is driving growth in this sector.
The ports and borders business supplies large x-ray systems The military market for UK and US technology is restricted to check containers in transit.
Turkey, Abu Dhabi and Oman by export controls, and these two governments form a large placed orders for systems to screen shipments through their part of the market.
The size of the market is influenced by borders and airports.
Belgian Customs are deploying new significant contracts that are large in relation to the total fixed and mobile scanners at Zeebrugge and Antwerp.
Smiths market, although typically such contracts run for several years.
is also under contract to provide mobile cargo x-ray systems HCV to the US Customs and Border Protection Agency.
The emergency responder market is smaller than the other markets and is characterised by more localised purchasing Headline operating profit decisions and steadier growth.
Headline operating profit rose 11% with the operating margin at 18.6% compared with 18.8% in 2005.
The profit increase The markets served by Smiths Detection are particularly arose principally from volume growth, with changes in the influenced by specific events and the perception of the threat business mix leading to a slight margin reduction.
On a of terrorist activity or other security issues.
This perception statutory basis, operating profit was 81m 2005: 69m.
itself has been and is likely to remain variable.
Smiths Detection is working with a number of governments to deploy Research and development systems to counter the explosive threat identified in the UK in Technology enhancement remains a high priority for Smiths August 2006.
Detection, whether by Company funded R&D or by acquisition, and has yielded a pipeline of new products.
Performance 2006 2005 A new Hi-Scan x-ray system for airport security checkpoints m m Increase will help to identify and pinpoint explosives in hand luggage.
Sales 412 367 12% A new desk-top system 500DT, able to detect drugs and Headline operating profit 77 69 11% explosives simultaneously, was launched and has been certified by the Transportation Security Administration.
Sales R&D expenditure was 30m, a decrease of 1m.
The translation of the results of US funded R&D was equivalent to 5% of sales in the year and businesses at a higher dollar exchange rate and the effect customer funding added a further 2%.
Smiths employs over of exchange on other non-UK businesses increased reported 400 scientists and engineers in the Detection business who sales by 2%.
Excluding both acquisitions and disposals and identify and develop new technologies.
the effect of exchange translation, sales rose by 13%.
Forward-looking issues In the military sector, a number of existing military Smiths strategy is to build a global business meeting programmes have been winding down in the period, while customers' needs to detect biological and chemical agents, several important new programmes including the Chem Bio weapons, contraband and explosives.
Protective Shelter programme, are beginning.
Smiths is well placed to benefit from new military programmes such as the To fulfil this strategy Smiths Detection aims to develop US Department of Defenses requirement for a new generation technology internally and to make acquisitions of both of military chemical detectors.
technology start-ups and more established businesses.
Sales to transportation and airport authorities account for Trading performance in a particular period will depend on the one third of the divisions total, and new business secured contracts secured, which can be large and irregular.
Tendering in this period will sustain growth ahead.
Elsewhere, airport activity is at a high level, however, and we are confident of operators around the world continue to acquire Smiths growth in 2007. equipment, including in this period those in Thailand, China, Malaysia, Singapore, India, Pakistan, Japan, Australia and New Zealand.
Smiths recently won a contract to supply security systems to the new terminal 3 at Dubai airport.
18 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued June 2006 Smiths provides life-saving medical equipment to World Cup Smiths helped the German authorities protect football fans by supplying more than 1,000 hand-held pulse oximeters, which were carried in backpacks by first responders.
The oximeters provide blood oxygen saturation and pulse rate monitoring for patients.
Smiths Medical In September 2005 Smiths Medical disposed of its interests in pvb Critical Care GmbH for 6m.
Group Managing Director: Srini Seshadri Markets Description: Smiths Medical focuses on improving medical outcomes.
Smiths Medicals product ranges serve three main markets Smiths helps its customers: medication delivery, vital care and safety.
The two main deliver medication, for example, by providing the equipment to deliver contributors to overall market growth are ageing populations chemotherapy, pain relief and insulin: and increasing spending on healthcare.
The overall world provide vital care, for example, by providing the equipment that market for devices and equipment of the type supplied by manages airways and fluids during and after surgical procedures, Smiths Medical amounts to some US$7bn and is growing as well as monitoring vital signs: and consistently at 5-6% per annum.
keep people safe, through safety devices for drawing blood samples, giving injections and delivering intravenous drugs.
Across the three Smiths Medical product groupings, markets are growing at varying rates.
The global market for medication Employees: 7,600 delivery products is growing at around 6%, while the market Principal operating regions: Manufacturing is concentrated in the US, for vital care products is showing annual growth of around 4%.
The global market for safety products is growing at around 8% Contribution to 2006 Group sales: 21% with particularly strong growth in the US, reflecting the present 60% conversion of the market to safety needles and 95% conversion for peripheral intravenous IV catheters.
In other geographic markets, conversion to safety products is in its Key customers: Smiths Medicals end customers are hospitals and infancy, with minimal sales but rapid growth.
The Company other healthcare providers worldwide.
Most territories are serviced has respected brands, competitive positions, considerable through wholly owned local sales and distribution companies.
expertise in design and manufacture and a worldwide sales network.
Business developments Performance Smiths Medical has continued to integrate the activities 2006 2005 m m Increase of Medex Inc. acquired in March 2005, which is delivering synergies to plan.
Incremental synergies of 7m were achieved Sales 737 563 31% in 2006.
In Europe and the US, the separate Medex companies Headline operating profit 138 88 57% have merged with existing Smiths Medical companies generating customer service and marketing synergies.
R&D Sales programmes have been aligned throughout the business.
Sales rose by 31%, benefiting from a full 53 weeks contribution from Medex compared with four months in 2005 and from Manufacturing integration is in progress and is expected to stronger average exchange rates used to translate the sales deliver cost reductions from 2007.
During the year, Smiths of overseas businesses.
There was good growth across the Medical announced the cessation of manufacturing at three Americas, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia.
facilities Duluth, Georgia: Wampsville, New York: and Hythe, Kent and the expansion of facilities in Mexico and Ohio.
During the year, sales of infusion pumps saw strong The cessation of manufacturing in Hythe is the largest of the growth, especially the Medfusion 3500 Syringe Pump closures and will take two years to complete.
Costs of 19m and the accompanying integrated software, PharmaGuard 2005: 10m have been charged in the year in respect of the Medication Safety Software.
Sales of single-use devices moved ahead of last year.
In Reorganisation of the divisions global distribution system is January, Smiths Medical signed a three year agreement under way.
Working with logistics specialists, Smiths Medical with Novation, which offers contracting services to 2,500 has established a European centre in The Netherlands to hospitals throughout the US, under which the Company will serve all markets outside the US, replacing six national be one of two suppliers of regional anaesthesia trays.
are standard or customised kits which provide all the necessary products for clinicians to perform regional anaesthesia.
19 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued September 2006 Smiths helps NASA with launch project Our Hypertronics business is working with NASA on an innovative electrical connector that can withstand the intense vibrations of a rocket launch without being damaged.
The connector is being developed for NASAs new sun observation craft.
In addition, Smiths Medical secured two major contracts with Smiths Specialty Engineering Premier Purchasing Partners group purchasing organisation for Group Managing Director: Paul Cox disposable anaesthesia and temperature management products.
The temperature management product portfolio continued Description: Within Specialty Engineering John Crane provides mechanical rotating seals and associated equipment and services to increase its share of the market.
During the year the used in process industries.
Interconnect supplies components and temperature probe product range doubled in size and attained sub-systems for connecting, protecting and controlling critical almost 50% market share in the US from 34% a year ago.
electronic and radio frequency systems.
Flex-Tek provides ducting and hosing for a wide range of applications, mainly for heating and Safety devices continued to sell well in the US.
Combining the ventilation and domestic equipment.
Marine Systems supplies marine Smiths Medical and Medex products has improved the ranges electronics and charts.
The last three are disclosed under the heading competitive strength and is generating incremental sales.
Specialty Other in the segmental reporting in the accounts.
Headline operating profit Employees: 11,200 Headline operating profit rose by 57% in the year.
The Principal operating regions: John Crane and Marine Systems are translation of overseas earnings at stronger average exchange global businesses.
Interconnect manufactures in the US, the UK, rates increased profit by 2%.
On a statutory basis, operating France, Germany, Italy, Costa Rica and China.
mainly in the US, but also in the UK, France, Malaysia and Mexico.
The increased headline operating profit is due to including Contribution to 2006 Group sales: a full years activity from Medex plus an initial contribution John Crane 14% Specialty Other 16% from the synergies derived from the Medex integration and other restructuring savings, together with improvements in the product mix.
Key customers: John Crane serves oil and gas companies and Research and development refineries.
Interconnect sells to aircraft manufacturers, defence Investment in R&D rose to 25m from 18m.
Of this, 16m and wireless telecoms companies.
Flex-Tek serves mainly domestic 2005: 14m was charged against headline operating profit, appliance manufacturers and the US construction industry.
Marine with the balance being capitalised.
Systems serves the global professional marine industry.
During the year there were a number of important new Business developments product launches.
The ADVANTIV safety IV catheter and In February 2006, John Crane opened a 1.5m manufacturing, the hypodermic needle syringe Needle-Pro EDGE were service and support centre in Bangalore, India.
During the designed in response to continuing awareness of needle-stick year, Smiths also purchased the remaining 33% minority injuries and consequent health risk.
New respiratory products stake in John Crane Tianjin, China for 1.5m, thereby launched included the Portex adjustable flange tracheostomy increasing John Cranes presence in the growing wet seal tube, the Portex Thermovent T2 heat and moisture exchange sector in the region.
device, and the PressureEasy cuff pressure controller.
The line of anaesthesia offerings added a new carbon dioxide Smiths purchased Farnam Custom Products Inc and absorbent, SODASORB LF, and a single-use bougie for Millitech, Inc for 4m and 19m respectively, boosting Flex-Tek difficult intubations.
Smiths also launched a new range of and Interconnects presence in heating and ventilation and advanced embryo replacement catheters, the Sure-Pro millimetre wave technologies respectively.
The business and and Sure-Pro Ultra in response to the changing needs of assets of Lorch Microwave LLC were purchased for 15m, fertility specialists.
increasing capability in microwave filters.
Forward-looking issues After the year end, the Company completed the disposal of Smiths strategy is to continue to grow a global medical device Safematic Bearing Lubrication to SKF.
business concentrating on improving medical outcomes by delivering medication, providing vital care and keeping medical practitioners safe.
Smiths Medical is well placed to make further progress in the coming year across all its business areas.
20 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued July 2006 Explosives detectors for new Dubai terminal Smiths was selected to help protect passengers at the newest terminal at the Middle Easts busiest airport.
Around 70 x-ray screening systems will be integrated into the state-of-the-art baggage handling system in order to screen luggage for threats.
Markets John Cranes markets have been particularly strong in Smiths Specialty Engineerings principal businesses John 2006, specifically within the oil and gas sector in the US, Crane, Interconnect and Flex-Tek each address specific Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Although each market is different, the demand for combined with the benefits of focusing on enhanced customer Specialty Engineerings products rose generally across all service produced a 12% increase in John Crane sales while markets in 2006. tight cost controls produced a profit increase of 11%.
John Cranes largest markets are the oil and gas sector and John Crane has won several large projects which will secure the petrochemical and other process industries.
Maintenance future revenue streams, including the Minatitlan process plant and support form a large part of total demand, with new for Pemex in Mexico and the Qatar Gas Refinery.
John Crane projects providing an income stream many years after UK is in the process of installing a new technology centre installation of equipment.
John Cranes markets are driven which will be capable of testing gas seals to extreme pressure.
by general economic expansion but in particular by growth John Crane won a Queens Award for its turbomachinery within the oil and gas industry.
business in recognition of its success in expanding its business Interconnects largest markets are aerospace, defence and well in excess of the general levels of market growth and for wireless telecommunications.
Within aerospace and defence, its efforts in developing and marketing advanced technologies.
Interconnects products include antenna systems, connectors, For the rest of Specialty, a number of major new contracts in cable assemblies and frequency sources.
Interconnect and a strong construction market for Flex-Tek In the wireless telecommunications sector, Interconnect resulted in overall sales growth of 19% and profit growth of supplies devices to protect base stations from power surges, 31%.
Major contract wins include a deal to manufacture the as well as coaxial cables and electronic components.
award-winning Tarsier runway debris monitoring system in the USA won by the recently acquired Millitech and satellite Flex-Tek serves mainly domestic appliance manufacturers and communications for the new Boeing 787, won by Tecom.
Demand is normally a function of overall economic growth.
Headline operating profit Headline operating profit rose by 21%.
The translation of the Performance US results at the higher dollar exchange rate and the effect of 2006 2005 m m Increase exchange translation on other non-UK businesses increased the divisions profit by 4%.
On a statutory basis, operating profit Sales was 74m for John Crane 2005: 65m and 76m for the rest John Crane 518 463 12% of Specialty Engineering 2005: 70m.
Specialty Other 556 466 19% Research and development 1,074 929 16% R&D expenditure for the division as a whole increased by 2m Headline operating profit to 24m.
John Crane 69 63 11% Forward-looking issues Specialty Other 84 64 31% Smiths strategy is to grow each of the principal Specialty 153 127 21% Engineering businesses.
In pursuit of this strategy, Smiths aims to broaden the customer or market base where the Sales application of its technological expertise and engineering Sales rose by 16%.
The translation of the results of US skills are most appropriate, for example the development of businesses at the higher dollar exchange rate and the effect of Interconnect products for the medical equipment market.
exchange rates on other non-UK businesses increased sales Smiths Specialty Engineerings outlook is for further growth by 3%.
Excluding both acquisitions and the effect of exchange in the year ahead, helped by the continued upturn in the translation, sales rose by 9%.
investment cycles for oil and gas and telecoms infrastructure.
