21 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued February 2006 Smiths opens plant in India Smiths is always looking for new ways to move closer to its customers and is already operating in more than 50 countries.
In February, John Crane began manufacturing its high-performance seals in India.
Retirement benefits Financial review The assumptions underlying the calculation of retirement Accounting policies benefits are important and are based on independent advice.
The accounts in this report are the first annual accounts Changes in these assumptions could have a material impact Smiths has prepared under International Financial Reporting on the measurement of our retirement benefit liabilities.
Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU.
The accounting policies used in preparing these accounts Taxation are set out on pages 54 to 57.
The information for the year to The tax charge for the year represented an effective rate of 31 July 2005, previously reported to shareholders under UK 26% on the headline profit before taxation, the same as for Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP has 2005.
This has been maintained through taking advantage of been restated to conform to IFRS.
global tax incentives, the tax-efficient use of capital and active tax compliance management.
Tax payments normally lag the The significant differences between IFRS and UK GAAP tax charge and therefore boost free cash-flow.
Current and have been drawn to shareholders attention in a number of deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet publications including the Operating and Financial Review in in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice.
the Annual Report and Accounts 2005 and in a press release dated 21 November 2005 published on the Smiths website The fundamental tenets of the Smiths approach to taxation www.
Further information are to enhance the Companys competitive position on a about the transition to IFRS and the key accounting policies global basis, while engaging with tax authorities around the can be found on page 90. world on a basis of full disclosure, full co-operation and full legal compliance.
The Board considers and approves the The accounting policies adopted include those necessary management of the Companys tax affairs in the context of to comply with the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39 the Companys commercial objectives.
accounting standards that deal with the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments.
These standards were Smiths seeks to build open relationships with tax authorities adopted prospectively from 1 August 2005 and, as permitted, to bring about timely agreement of tax affairs and to remove the comparative figures exclude the impact of the new uncertainty on business transactions.
The 2006 financial year ended on 5 August.
The Companys taxation strategy is to mitigate the burden of The 2005 financial year ended on 31 July.
taxation in a responsible manner for competitive advantage, Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates and, in this way, to enhance long-term shareholder value.
Applying accounting policies requires the use of certain judgements, assumptions and estimates.
The most important Cost of capital and return on investment of these are set out below.
Further judgements, assumptions Smiths uses its weighted average cost of capital as one and estimates are set out in the accounts.
measure to appraise both internally-generated investment opportunities and acquisitions.
During 2006, the Companys Revenue recognition weighted average cost of capital WACC was 8%.
The timing of revenue recognition in complex contractual arrangements is important and is usually measured by The after-tax headline return on average shareholder reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at investment, including goodwill set-off against reserves ROI, the balance sheet date.
This assessment necessarily requires was 14% 2005: 11%.
For other aspects of revenue recognition, Smiths accounting policies allow revenue to be Retirement benefits recognised only when the risks and rewards of ownership The Company applies the full accounting requirements have passed to the customer.
of International Accounting Standard IAS 19.
These requirements are broadly similar to those previously Impairment adopted under UK GAAP.
IFRS requires companies to carry out impairment testing on any assets that show indications of impairment, and annually Under IAS 19, the balance sheet reflects the net surplus deficit on goodwill and intangibles that are not subject to amortisation.
in retirement benefit plans, taking assets at their market This testing involves exercising management judgement about values at 5 August 2006 and evaluating liabilities at year-end future cash-flows and other events which are, by their nature, AA corporate bond interest rates.
The measurement of the impairment charge recorded this year against TI Automotive is an example of this judgement.
22 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued April 2006 Smiths awarded $23 million US Government contract for mobile x-ray Smiths was chosen to supply the US Government with high-energy mobile cargo screening systems to be deployed at several strategic ports through the country adding a new layer of security in Americas defences against terrorism.
The table below gives an analysis of the year end retirement Dividend policy benefit liabilities.
Smiths operates a progressive dividend policy.
The objective 2006 2005 is to increase dividends annually when trading results and prospects justify it, and, in the long term, for dividends to be Funded plans: twice covered by headline earnings.
UK plans funding status 105% 101% US plans funding status 84% 74% Goodwill and intangibles m m Goodwill on all acquisitions since 1998 is capitalised and, under UK GAAP, was amortised over a maximum 20-year Surplus Deficit : period.
Under IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but UK US funded plans 79 106 instead is subject to annual reviews to test impairment.
UK US unfunded plans 118 131 On transition to IFRS, the amortised balance was tested for Total liability 39 237 impairment, and subsequent tests have been performed in Company contributions to the funded pension plans were 2005 and 2006.
Impairment of 11m was charged in 2005 in 110m in 2006 2005: 52m including a 61m special payment respect of the acquisition of Fairchild Defense Systems: no to facilitate UK scheme mergers involving underfunded impairment charges have been made in the current year.
The funds investments achieved a return of 9% in the year.
The UK AA corporate bond rate increased to 5.3%.
Treasury The aim of Treasury in Smiths is to ensure a robust and Mortality assumptions are reviewed at each actuarial prudent financial profile while driving value throughout the valuation, and were updated in the current year in the UK.
Company to attain the businesss full potential.
With this The present assumptions are illustrated by the life expectancy goal in mind, Treasury aims to reduce the cost of capital of a 65-year-old retiring in 2013.
Men are assumed to have a by optimising financial liabilities with the support of world life expectancy of 21 years and women 24 years.
in mortality assumptions has increased UK pension liabilities by 4%.
In the US, mortality assumptions were updated in 2005.
Smiths continues to apply centralised treasury management over its financial risks, operating within a strong control Full details of the retirement benefits accounted for under IAS environment.
The Company uses financial instruments to are shown in note 9. raise money for its operations and to manage the related financial risks.
Smiths neither speculates nor trades in Exchange rates derivative financial instruments and all financial instruments The results of overseas operations are translated into sterling are properly recognised on the balance sheet.
The Board has at average exchange rates.
The net assets are translated at approved a Treasury Policy, which governs the financial risk year-end rates.
The exchange rates, expressed in terms of profile, and a treasury compliance report is presented annually the value of sterling, are shown in the following table.
2006 2005 The objectives of the treasury function remain the same as Average rates: in previous years and are explained in further detail below.
Dollar 1.79 1.85 Dollar strengthened 3% Euro 1.46 1.46 Euro unchanged 1.
To deliver the liquidity requirements of the businesses Year end rates: cost-effectively.
The Company aims to minimise the level Dollar 1.91 1.76 Dollar weakened 8% of surplus cash but, where surpluses arise, tight controls Euro 1.48 1.45 Euro weakened 2% apply to ensure that they are securely placed with highly-rated counterparties and are available for redeployment at short notice.
The Company is required under IFRS to show gross borrowings and cash under its cash pooling arrangements, despite these balances being netted for interest purposes, which exaggerates the Companys surplus cash balance.
Local working capital needs and capital expenditure requirements
