Operating and Financial Review performance is earnings per share, before exceptional items and the 3.1 Statement of compliance amortisation of intangible assets Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated The Operating and Financial Review that follows is intended largely to reflect based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude the recommendations of the Accounting Standard Boards 2006 reporting exceptional items and the amortisation of intangible assets divided by the statement of best practice on the Operating and Financial Review.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the statement has only recently been published and we intend to monitor relevant period.
developments in best practice with a view to further tailoring our Operating and Financial Review in the future to enhance its usefulness to readers of the Adjusted EPS was as follows: Annual Report.
Year ended 30 April 3.2 Cautionary statement 2006 2005 pence pence The Operating and Financial Review has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Its purpose is to assist Adjusted EPS 10.6p 9.5p shareholders of the Company to assess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed and for no other 3.3.
This Operating and Financial Review contains forward looking A key element underpinning the Groups strategy is to deliver organic growth statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other in revenue.
The following measures of organic growth are monitored in things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to respect of the Groups three divisions: time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable UK Bus growth in passenger journeys excluding London where but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause Transport for London TfL receives the passenger revenue measured as actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to assurances can be given that the forward looking statements in this the equivalent period in the previous year.
Operating and Financial Review will be realised.
The forward looking Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent preparation.
period in the previous year.
North America growth in US$ revenue from continuing operations 3.3 Group business objectives and longmeasured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent term strategy period in the previous year.
1 Business objectives and long-term strategy The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver longbusiness for example, not all passenger revenue in North America is term shareholder value are: determined on a per passenger basis.
To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations: All of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing passenger volumes and are normalised to exclude businesses that have not operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise been held by the Group for the whole of both periods.
The organic growth and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups KPIs were as follows: weighted average cost of capital: Year ended In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the 30 April 2006 Groups UK Rail division by bidding for selected rail franchises and to seek Growth % to secure new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
This part of the strategy includes working with VRG to secure an acceptable UK Bus passenger journeys 2.1% renegotiated West Coast Trains franchise.
UK Rail passenger miles South West Trains 1.3% A fundamental objective underlying this strategy is the continued provision VRG West Coast 21.3% of safe and reliable services to passengers.
VRG CrossCountry 4.3% Stagecoach Group has demonstrated particular strength in managing bus North America revenue 11.0% and coach businesses that operate scheduled services in a relatively deregulated environment.
The Groups focus is on operations with critical 3.3.
2.3 Safety mass in their own local markets.
In rail, Stagecoachs skill centres on organic In addition to providing reliable services, we seek to ensure the safety of our revenue and passenger volume growth, the management of significant passengers, staff and others.
change projects, the delivery of improved operational performance, and Health and safety matters are discussed on pages 15 and 16 of this Annual driving up customer satisfaction.
Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Group level KPIs include the number of passenger injuries per million 3.3.
2 Key Performance Indicators miles and staff lost time accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level.
The most important of these KPIs at a Disposed businesses are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Group level focus on five key areas: The safety KPIs were as follows: Profitability Year ended 30 April Organic growth 2006 2005 Safety Service delivery Passenger injuries per million miles 1.39 1.47 Staff lost time accidents per 100,000 Staff retention hours worked 0.83 0.98 3.3.
2.4 Service delivery The Group seeks to increase long-term value to its shareholders.
While the We aim to provide a reliable service to support our organic growth strategy.
Group aims to take a long-term perspective on shareholder value, it also Our measures of service delivery include: monitors the financial performance of each of its businesses in the shorter term.
For the Group as a whole, the key measure of short-term financial UK Bus lost mileage measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were not operated.
2 North America Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the DfTs Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that Stagecoach is a major provider of transport services in North America where arrive at their destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city the market is highly fragmented with several thousand operators.
Our services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled businesses include commuter services, tour and charter, sightseeing and stations.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure The United States business is headed by a Chief Operating Officer.
Stagecoach of service delivery for the North American division as a whole.
runs around 2,600 vehicles in the United States where our operations are centred on the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Ohio, northern Indiana, northern Illinois and southern Wisconsin.
Our services operate in major cities such as New York City, Newark, Pittsburgh, Chicago and Year ended 30 April Milwaukee.
2006 2005 In Canada, we own four operating companies, which together operate % % around 500 vehicles in the Provinces of Quebec and Ontario.
UK Bus lost mileage 0.5% 0.8% UK Rail punctuality 3.4.
3 UK Rail South West Trains 90.0% 82.5% Stagecoach Group has major rail operations and has an involvement in VRG West Coast 84.2% 72.5% operating around a quarter of the UK passenger rail network.
The UK rail VRG CrossCountry 81.3% 77.5% market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the DfT on the basis 3.3.
2.5 Staff retention of bids by train operators.
As noted on page 15, the Groups most important resource is its employees.
The Groups principal wholly-owned rail business is South West Trains, the We monitor staff turnover which is measured as the number of employees UKs biggest commuter franchise, which runs around 1,600 trains a day in who left the Group other than through business disposals during the period south-west England out of London Waterloo railway station.
The Groups as a proportion of the total average employees during the period.
Staff other franchise is Island Line on the Isle of Wight.
Both franchises are turnover for the last two years was as follows: operated under contract until February 2007.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on Year ended 30 April a 27-year concession running until 2024.
2006 2005 % % Stagecoach Groups rail division is headed by a Chief Executive, who reports directly to the Group Chief Executive.
South West Trains, Island Line and UK Bus staff turnover 18.1% 22.4% Supertram each has a Managing Director, who reports to the Chief Executive UK Rail staff turnover of the Groups rail division, who is also Chairman of South West Trains.
4 New Zealand North America staff turnover 21.9% 24.0% In November 2005, Stagecoach Group sold all of its New Zealand operations to Infratil Limited, a company listed on the New Zealand Exchange that is a specialist investor in infrastructure and utility assets.
The New Zealand 3.4 Description of the business business operates bus services in the Wellington and Auckland areas of New Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with Zealand, and ferry services in the Auckland area.
The net cash inflow from the extensive operations in the UK, United States and Canada.
The Group, disposal was 97.9m comprising the consideration of 107.0m less disposal including its London bus operations, employs around 31,000 people, and costs of 3.1m and 6.0m of net cash disposed of.
The sale resulted in a net operates bus, coach, rail, and tram services.
The Group has three main gain on disposal of 22.5m.
divisions UK Bus, UK Rail and North America.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, 3.4.
5 Joint Ventures domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
5.1 Virgin Rail Group traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in Virgin Rail Group VRG, which operates the West Coast and CrossCountry rail franchises.
The other Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the shareholder in VRG is the Virgin Group of Companies.
The Chief Executive of Company and the group headed by it is referred to as the Group.
Stagecoach Groups Rail division is Joint Chairman of VRG.
The joint venture intends to bid for a new expanded CrossCountry franchise, which is being re- 3.4.
1 UK Bus tendered by the Government and will run from November 2007.
The West Our UK Bus division connects communities in more than 100 towns and Coast franchise runs until 2012 and negotiations are underway to put the cities across the country on a network stretching from the Highlands of franchise, currently run on the basis of budgets set annually by the DfT, back Scotland to south-west England.
It includes major city bus operations in, on a commercial basis.
Each franchise has a Managing Director, who reports to Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield and Cambridge.
the VRG board, which includes Stagecoach Group representatives.
Our UK Bus division, including our London bus business, operates a fleet of more than 8,000 buses across 20 regional companies.
5.2 Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited operating company is managed independently and is led by a Managing In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited Director, reporting directly to the head of the UK Bus division.
with transport group ComfortDelGro to operate megabus.
com and Scottish Citylink coach services.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Stagecoach operates express coach services linking major towns within its Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the market-leading joint venture is the leading provider of express coach services in Scotland.
budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, which has a network covering Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the 40 locations.
business, which is overseen by a joint board.
Our local and express bus services carry around two million passengers a day in rural and urban areas.
Stagecoachs bus and coach services in the UK are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
We also operate tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
In our London bus business, routes are operated under contract to TfL.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 Operating and Financial Review 3.5 Resources and relationships 3.5.
2 Relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources that underpin its business and Stagecoach Group works closely with a range of bodies in each of the support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage markets where we provide public transport services.
Our stakeholders include: in the markets in which it operates.
We continue to invest in the areas listed Our People we have established strong working relationships with trade below to maintain our position among the market leaders in the public unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including transportation sector.
training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and 3.5.
1.1 Employees through a number of internal publications.
Stagecoach Groups most important resource is its employees.
We seek to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent Investors and the financial community our shareholders are critical to our package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on training and development of our people and we operate a successful our performance.
We are a constituent of the FTSE4Good index, which sets graduate training scheme which provides one source of training the standards and tracks the performance of the leading socially responsible managers of the future.
We also encourage our people to give something companies around the globe.
back to their local community and many are regularly involved in fundraising, Customers millions of people use our services every day, including payroll giving and in-kind support to a wide range of good causes.
Further information about our commitment to corporate social responsibility is set commuters, schoolchildren, concessionary fares passengers and leisure travellers.
We conduct extensive customer research to monitor our out on pages 14 to 17. performance and to determine how we can improve the delivery and 3.5.
1.2 Market research accessibility of our services.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base Customer Interest Groups our businesses have a regular and ongoing lies in a track record of product innovation and new ideas on developing dialogue with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from effective public transport systems.
The Group invests significantly each year senior managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation and in market research.
We have a dedicated telemarketing unit in the UK that information sharing on particular issues.
communicates with current and non-users to build a detailed profile of what attracts people to use our services.
Government senior executives have an ongoing dialogue with national and local government in all our countries of operation to ensure the effective 3.5.
1.3 Corporate reputation, brand strength, and market position delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider Stagecoach is one of the best known public transport operators in the UK and is objectives.
In the UK, we work closely with the DfT, the Scottish Executive, consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by Government Transport Scotland, the Welsh Assembly, and TfL.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
Transport Authorities we work closely with local authorities, including Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic Passenger Transport Executives, Regional Transport Committees and Transit growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
Authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of 3.5.
1.4 Natural resources and manufacturing technology public transport in their areas.
Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural Government Advisory Bodies and Lobbying Groups we also have resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for to ensure that these resources are sourced as efficiently as possible and Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our lobbying groups such as Transport 2000. business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications Transport and Industry Representation Groups we are active members of relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
We have industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK carried out consultation with customer groups to ensure vehicle interiors which covers buses and light rail and the Association of Train Operating meet the needs of our passengers.
Suppliers we rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services 3.5.
1.5 Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public linked to our bus and rail operations.
These include vehicle and rolling stock transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
manufacturers, fuel suppliers, IT companies and clothing manufacturers.
page 6 page 6 | Stagecoach Group plc | Stagecoach Group plc 3.6 Overview of financial results Stagecoach Group has produced an excellent set of results for the year ended 30 April 2006.
Revenue from continuing operations excluding acquisitions during the year increased by 116.6m 8.2% from 1,413.4m to 1,530.0m.
Operating profit before exceptional items and intangible asset amortisation has increased from 153.1m to 156.6m.
Revenue by division excluding the discontinued New Zealand operations is summarised below: REVENUE 2006 2005 2006 2005 Local Currency Growth m Currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus 775.7 720.3 775.7 720.3 7.7 North America 247.6 213.7 US$ 439.5 396.0 11.0 UK Rail 506.7 479.4 506.7 479.4 5.7 1,530.0 1,413.4 Acquisitions during the year UK Bus Glenvale 17.4 Nil 17.4 Nil n a UK Bus Traction 21.1 Nil 21.1 Nil n a 38.5 Nil Discontinued Group operations North America Nil 7.1 US$ Nil 13.1 100.0 Nil 7.1 Total Group revenue 1,568.5 1,420.5 Operating profit by division excluding the discontinued New Zealand operations is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT 2006 2005 2006 2005 % of % of Currency Local Currency m revenue m revenue m Continuing Group operations UK Bus 88.6 11.4% 87.7 12.2% 88.6 87.7 North America excluding megabus 17.7 7.1% 15.5 7.0% US$ 31.5 28.7 North America megabus 0.8 n a Nil US$ 1.5 Nil UK Rail 58.9 11.6% 50.0 10.4% 58.9 50.0 Group overheads 10.0 9.0 Restructuring costs 1.5 1.4 152.9 142.8 Acquisitions during the year UK Bus Glenvale 2.3 Nil UK Bus Traction 0.4 Nil Joint ventures and associates Virgin Rail Group 5.5 10.7 Citylink 0.1 Nil Other Nil 0.4 Total operating profit before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 156.6 153.1 Intangible asset amortisation 20.5 18.8 Exceptional items net Nil 1.4 Total operating profit 136.1 132.9 Stagecoach Group plc | Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 page 7 Operating and Financial Review The integration of Traction and Glenvale is progressing well.
In Merseyside, 3.7 Divisional Performance we are focusing on developing strong core services as well as operating 3.7.
1 UK Bus tendered routes on behalf of Merseytravel.
We have completed a major Revenue in our UK Bus division, excluding acquisitions during the year, has vehicle replacement programme, which has resulted in more than half of the increased by 7.7% to 775.7m 2005: 720.3m and operating profit is up to Glenvale fleet being upgraded.
Following the decision by the Office of Fair 88.6m, compared to 87.7m in the previous year.
Operating margin was Trading not to refer the acquisition of Traction to the Competition 11.4% compared to 12.2% in 2005.
We are particularly pleased to report that Commission, we have made a number of improvements to integrate the excluding acquisitions, we have grown operating profit against a background business into our UK Bus operations.
A new integrated bus and tram network has been launched in Sheffield, delivering cheaper fares and better services to of significant increases in fuel and other costs.
In addition, the acquisitions in people in the city.
the year contributed 38.5m of revenue and a 1.9m operating loss.
London Investment, innovation and growth In June 2006, the Group agreed the conditional sale of its London bus Stagecoach has an excellent track record of operating high-quality bus and operations to Macquarie Bank Limited.
The business operates bus services in coach services.
We have delivered further growth in passenger volumes at our south and south-east London on behalf of TfL.
The proceeds are expected to UK Bus division during the year as a result of our emphasis on new product be around 264m and the sale will result in a consolidated net gain on development, investment and tailored marketing initiatives.
We are disposal of approximately 120.0m.
attracting more people out of their cars and on to our public transport services and total passenger volumes on a like for like basis, excluding London and megabus.
More than 50m has been spent Partnership in the past 12 months modernising our fleet, delivering more low-floor Stagecoach continues to work closely with a range of stakeholders at local accessible buses and a more comfortable travelling environment for and national level to improve the quality of bus provision for our customers.
Strong partnerships are the key to improving services and delivering value for money to taxpayers, a view that has been endorsed by the Government.
We We have expanded the reach of our UK Bus operations with the acquisition of welcome the DfTs review of competition arrangements to make it easier to two significant independent bus businesses in the past year, Glenvale achieve sensible co-operation between operators on timetables and fares Transport Limited Glenvale and Traction Group Limited Traction where this is in customers interests.
In Scotland and Wales, we continue to Group.
As we anticipated at the time we acquired it, Glenvale has incurred work with the devolved administrations to successfully deliver the losses as we restructure the operations.
Revenue from the date of acquisition concessionary fares schemes.
We welcome the recent commitment by the to 30 April 2006 was 17.4m and the operating loss was 2.3m.
Traction Government to introduce a national free travel scheme for the elderly in Group, which has operations in Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and Tayside, contributed 21.1m to revenue and made an operating profit of 0.4m in England from 2008.
Our bus companies are also looking forward to building the period since acquisition to 30 April 2006. relationships with Transport Scotland, the new National Transport Agency for Scotland, and the regional transport partnerships.
com, our market-leading inter-city bus service now has a network with a number of local authorities on smartcard, multi-operator ticketing of services covering more than 40 locations in the UK.
More modern schemes and real time information, in places such as Manchester, Cambridge double-decker coaches and a comprehensive package of press, billboard, and south-west England, to make travel easier for passengers.
Several of our radio and web-based marketing have helped drive further passenger growth.
companies also have close links with businesses and educational Around two million passengers have travelled with megabus.
com during the establishments to encourage travel by public transport.
year and we have improved both the average load factor and the average fare.
Park and ride We believe there is significant potential to develop park and ride around the Provincial and city networks UK as a solution to the problem of increasing congestion.
Stagecoach is a We have achieved further organic passenger growth in our UK Bus division.
partner with local authorities in a number of major park and ride sites where Growth in our provincial and city networks has been driven by our focus on there has been significant growth.
In November 2005, as part of our dynamic customer profiling research and targeted marketing.
Our telemarketing unit bus strategy for Manchester, we unveiled proposals for a series of park and at our headquarters in Perth has been expanded to launch new campaigns in ride sites at key interchanges on the M60 motorway to help cut city centre the UK to encourage non-users to switch to bus travel.
These campaigns, congestion and promote bus use.
Stagecoach is also investigating the which include the offer of a weeks free travel and focus in particular on potential of commercial park and ride operations around the UK, where the parents and car users, have resulted in significant numbers of non-users operator would also buy and manage the facility, drawing on experience in switching to the bus.
Impressive passenger volume growth has been achieved in a number of our provincial networks, including Newcastle, Sheffield, Basingstoke, Devon, Kick Start Thanet, Banbury, Barrow, and Merthyr.
We have also achieved further Stagecoach was the most successful large bus operator in the UK in the latest passenger growth in our flagship operations in Cambridge on the citi round of funding allocations from the DfT for Kickstart schemes to fund new branded network, supported by the introduction of real time information on bus services.
More than 40% of the funding available was allocated to some services.
In Oxford, we have attracted more passengers on our Oxford Stagecoach partnership schemes, which was a reflection of our success in Tube high-frequency express coach service to and from London and grown using this model to generate organic passenger growth.
We are also our market share on this competitive corridor.
In Scotland, we have achieved operating a number of Bus Route Development Grant schemes with support passenger volume growth of 1.8% in our Western business, which was from the Scottish Executive and other initiatives backed by the devolved named 2005 UK Bus Operator of the Year.
References to the operating profit loss or operating margin of a particular business throughout the Operating and Financial Review mean operating profit loss or operating margin before amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and restructuring costs.
page 8 | Stagecoach Group plc Providing a clean, safe, punctual and reliable service has resulted in the 3.7.
2 North America highest ever overall passenger satisfaction ratings achieved to date at South North American trading continues to be encouraging, despite ongoing cost West Trains, jumping from 78% last spring to 83% in Spring 2006 measured pressures in relation to fuel and insurance.
Cost pressures have resulted in the as the percentage of passengers surveyed who were satisfied with their closure of a number of smaller competitors and in some areas we have been overall journey experience.
able to absorb the additional customer base.
In the last year, together with third parties, we have invested more than 7m In March 2006, we launched our budget coach operation, megabus.
com, in in station refurbishments and security enhancements across the South West the United States.
Passengers can travel on daily non-stop express coach Trains network.
services between Chicago and other Midwest cities from as low as US$1.
com, our budget rail service offering seats on off-peak services Revenue from North America for the year ended 30 April 2006 was from just 1 plus booking fee, has attracted 50,000 passengers since we US$439.5m 2005: US$409.1m.
On a like for like basis, revenue was up by launched the first two trial routes in November 2005.
Operating profit excluding megabus was US$31.5m 2005: US$28.7m, proved extremely successful in making the most efficient use of the resulting in an operating margin of 7.2%, compared to 7.0% the previous year.
capacity on the rail network.
com was extended to seven Converted to sterling, revenue for the year was 247.6m 2005: 220.8m.
additional locations on the South West Trains network in April 2006, Operating profit excluding megabus for the year was 17.7m 2005: 15.5m, offering 5,000 cheap seats a week, and since June 2006, megatrain.
com and the operating loss of megabus in North America was 0.8m 2005: Nil, has started selling tickets on more than a fifth of all Virgin CrossCountry including marketing and other start-up costs.
We are in discussions with the DfT about making the We continue to experience strong revenue growth in our highly successful megatrain.
The growth has been helped by the introduction of South West Trains continues to work hard to maximise capacity on the new double-decker buses and improved tours and marketing.
We have entered into a lease for a further 17 Desiro class 450 trains, We have also seen further revenue growth in our express, commuter and which will provide an extra 4,500 seats during peak times, and all units are scheduled airport services.
expected to be in passenger service by the end of the franchise.
Agreement has also been reached to lease nine three-car Class 158 trains to replace We have achieved a 100% contract retention rate in the past year and have existing two-car trains on the West of England line, with the first of these been awarded a number of new contracts in our Chicago, Wisconsin and expected to enter service in October 2006.
Pittsburgh businesses, while our Chicago tour operations have expanded services.
The 67m refurbishment of the Class 455 fleet operating on suburban routes is progressing well.
The partnership project with the DfT, TfL, Porterbrook Student transportation services in Wisconsin have continued to grow and we and Bombardier is expected to be completed by Spring 2008, delivering have expanded in the state through the acquisition of a 30-school bus improved reliability and better passenger circulation due to the revised contract.
internal layout of the units.
Charter revenues are up year on year and forward bookings are ahead of the same period last year, assisted by improved online booking capabilities Island Line through our redesigned Coach USA website.
We have made a small bolt-on Island line became the first rail operation in the UK to be designated as a acquisition of a charter business in southern Pennsylvania.
During the year, Community Rail route by the DfT in March 2006.
Designation changes the we closed some small under-performing charter locations in western New approach to running the line, with greater emphasis on local management York State and reduced our casino services.
Various initiatives have been and are being implemented on this line, including additional car parking and a park and ride In Canada, revenue has grown by more than 25% despite a very competitive scheme.
Separately, Island Line is being assisted by South West Trains on a environment.
Significant new contracts have been secured with the Greater project to modernise its ticketing machines.
Toronto Airports Authority and strong growth has also been achieved in transit contracts.
Supertram Passenger volumes at Sheffield Supertram continue to grow and the tram 3.7.
3 UK Rail operation is now carrying a record 13 million people a year.
A major threeThe Groups rail division has had another excellent year, with continued year project has been launched to refresh the livery and interiors of the 25- growth in revenue, including strong season ticket sales.
strong tram fleet and the first of the improved vehicles entered service in January 2006.
The programme will improve comfort and accessibility for Revenue from our UK Rail subsidiaries for the year ended 30 April 2006 was passengers, as well as help to maintain the fleets high standard of up by 5.7% to 506.7m 2005: 479.4m.
Operating profit increased to reliability.
Stagecoach launched a new integrated tram and bus network in 58.9m 2005: 50.0m, with an operating margin of 11.6% 2005: 10.4%.
Sheffield in May 2006, offering joint tram and bus ticketing.
Further Revenue was adversely affected by the terrorist attacks in London in July marketing activity has focused on students and an improved website.
2005, particularly revenue from off-peak travel.
The impact on profit was less significant due to the revenue and profit share arrangements that South Rail franchising opportunities West Trains has with the DfT.
Stagecoach is delighted to have been shortlisted for the new South Western The reported operating profit is are after deducting 66.7m 2005: 46.0m franchise, which runs from February 2007 and is made up of the current of amounts payable to the DfT under the revenue and profit sharing South West Trains and Island Line networks.
We believe our record of arrangements at South West Trains.
achievement at South West Trains will enhance the Groups bid for the new franchise.
Passengers are benefiting from record investment in new trains, Rail bid costs of 11.7m 2005: 3.0m were expensed during the year ended consistently high operational performance, as well as innovation with new 30 April 2006 in arriving at the UK Rail operating profit of 58.9m 2005: 50.0m.
These were principally in relation to the ongoing work on the bid ideas such as our budget train service, megatrain.
We are delivering for for the South Western franchise and the unsuccessful bids on the Greater passengers, taxpayers and our shareholders, and we will be submitting Western, Great Northern Thameslink and Integrated Kent franchises.
innovative and competitive proposals to the Government by 30 June.
A final decision is expected from Government in Autumn 2006.
South West Trains We were disappointed that our bids for the Thameslink Great Northern and South West Trains was named Passenger Operator of the Year and Rail Greater Western franchises and our joint bid with DSB for the Integrated Kent Business of the Year within the past 12 months, reflecting our commitment to franchise were unsuccessful.
However, we will continue to bid for future rail excellence.
Recent operational performance at what is arguably the UKs franchises on what we believe to be an acceptable risk profile, offering good biggest and most complex franchise is amongst the best achieved by train value for both the Government and our shareholders.
We are excited by the operating companies in London and the South East, with 90% of trains opportunities to grow our rail portfolio, which include the new East Midlands arriving on time punctuality measured on the basis of the DfTs Passenger and West Midlands franchises.
Stagecoach also plans to bid jointly with Virgin Performance Measure see section 3.3.
2.4 for the definition of this measure.
for the new CrossCountry franchise when it is tendered later this year.
All three of these new franchises are expected to commence in November 2007.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 Operating and Financial Review disappointed at this decision, we are assisting the Commission with its 3.7.
4 New Zealand enquiries and have had positive discussions to date.
We are confident that The results of the discontinued New Zealand division are included within the the Commission will realise the main competition to the coach is the car profit for the year from discontinued operations line on the face of the and inter-city rail services and that the joint venture can deliver the biggest income statement with the prior year comparative results also reclassified to improvement to inter-city coach services in Scotland in years.
The disposed New Zealand operations contributed profit after taxation of 4.3m 2005: 7.3m to the overall Group profit.
The disposal of New Zealand also resulted in a gain of 22.5m in the current year.
1 Depreciation and amortisation Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, intangible asset amortisation 3.7.
5 Joint Ventures and exceptional items from continuing businesses pre-exceptional EBITDA 3.7.
5.1 Virgin Rail Group amounted to 225.1m 2005: 219.4m and is analysed in note 2 f to the Our share of VRGs revenue for the 12-month period amounted to 357.4m consolidated financial statements.
Total depreciation for the year was 68.7m 2005: 315.2m and our share of profit after finance income and taxation 2005: 62.8m.
Amortisation of intangible assets increased from 18.8m to was 5.5m 2005: 10.7m.
Of this, operating profit was 5.3m 2005: 20.5m.
This principally reflects the charge in relation to new intangibles 14.2m, net finance income was 1.7m 2005: 1.7m and the net tax acquired this year coupled with the full year effect of the charge in relation to charge was 1.5m 2005: 5.2m.
intangibles acquired during the course of last year partly offset by the decrease in the goodwill charge for VRG which totalled 13.1m 2005: 14.7m.
Both of VRGs franchises currently operate on the basis of annual budgets set by the DfT whereby the franchises earn a specified profit before tax During the year ended 30 April 2005, the Directors reviewed the period over margin.
VRGs negotiations with the Government over new commercial which the goodwill in respect of VRG was being expensed, in light of the terms for the West Coast franchise that extends through to 2012 are status of negotiations on VRGs franchises.
As a result, it was decided that the progressing well and we look forward to an agreement being reached later expensing of goodwill in respect of VRG should be accelerated.
Our objective is to secure an arrangement which is sustainable and increased charge in the six months to 30 April 2005 and the six months to 31 in the long-term interests of passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
October 2005 with goodwill charges in the six months to 30 April 2006 reducing as a result of this previous acceleration.
Although IFRS 3 Business In our announcement of our interim results for the six months ended 31 October 2005, we explained that the results included the benefit of Combinations does not generally allow the amortisation of goodwill, the additional financial support that VRG expected to receive from the DfT.
We West Coast and CrossCountry train franchises that VRG operates have finite are pleased to report that VRG and the DfT have now agreed the total lives therefore the goodwill is charged to the income statement in line with financial support for VRGs financial year to 4 March 2006 and the DfT has the remaining term of these franchises.
now paid this in full to VRG.
Amortisation of 2.9m 2005: 2.9m was charged on the intangible asset Passenger numbers are continuing to grow on West Coast, with annual that arises from the Groups right to operate its rail franchises, 2.0m 2005: journeys now approaching 19 million an increase of 20% on the previous 1.1m was charged in relation to non-compete contracts, 2.4m 2005: year.
Revenue has also increased significantly as the improved performance Nil was charged in relation to customer contracts acquired as part of of the Pendolino trains continue to generate new traffic.
VRG has been business combinations and 0.1m 2005: 0.1m was charged in relation to particularly successful in competing with the airlines on the key software costs.
Over the last two years, rails share of the combined rail airline market has increased from one third to around two thirds on that route.
Customer service has also improved and, in the latest 3.8.
2 Exceptional items National Passenger Survey Spring 2006, 90% of passengers were satisfied The definition of exceptional items is contained within note 1 to the with their overall journey experience.
consolidated financial statements on page 42.
The Virgin CrossCountry franchise has grown passenger journeys by 7% over A net exceptional gain before tax of 17.4m 2005: loss of 7.5m was the past year and now carries in excess of 20 million passengers a year.
This comprised a gain on the sale of the New Zealand division of Customer satisfation has been further improved and in the latest National 22.5m, a net loss in respect of other disposed and closed operations of Passenger Survey Spring 2006, 84% of passengers were satisfied with their 7.0m, a gain on sale of other investments of 1.1m and a gain on the sale overall journey experience.
The Government announced in October 2005 that a new CrossCountry A tax credit of 2.8m 2005: 1.6m was recognised in respect of exceptional franchise would be created by incorporating the current Central Trains interitems resulting in net exceptional gains after tax of 20.2m 2005: loss of regional routes into the existing CrossCountry network.
mapping process, the DfT also announced its decision to re-let the CrossCountry franchise and the pre-qualification process is expected to begin in the summer of 2006.
Stagecoach and Virgin plan to submit a joint 3.8.
3 Net finance costs bid for the franchise through VRG.
Based on its strong track record of Net finance costs decreased from 21.9m to 16.0m as a result of a lower passenger growth and performance improvements, we believe VRG will be average net debt during the year.
The ratio of pre-exceptional EBITDA from well placed to win any tender for the new CrossCountry franchise.
continuing businesses to net finance charges was 14.1 times compared to 10.0 times in 2005, reflecting the reduced finance costs.
5.2 Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited We are excited by the prospects for our joint venture with ComfortDelGro to operate inter-city coach services in Scotland, which we believe can compete 3.8.
4 Taxation strongly with existing rail services and attract car users to public transport.
The tax charge and the effective tax rate for the year is analysed in the table on page 11.
Our share of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limiteds Citylink revenue from the inception of the joint venture in September 2005 to 30 April 2006 Including the tax charge that is presented as a component of the share of amounted to 3.8m and our share of operating profit was 0.1m.
The profit from joint ventures but excluding any tax in relation to discontinued business is seasonally strongest over the Summer and therefore these operations, the tax charge for the year of 27.9m 2005: 30.5m results do not reflect the most profitable part of the year.
represented an effective tax rate of 23.9% 2005: 27.7%.
The equivalent effective tax rate before the amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional The Office of Fair Trading decided in March 2006 to refer the Citylink joint items was 23.2% 2005: 24.3%.
venture to the Competition Commission.
While we were surprised and page 10 | Stagecoach Group plc TAXATION 2006 2005 Pre-tax Effective Pre-tax Effective profit Tax Rate profit Tax Rate m m % m m % Excluding intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items Before joint ventures 135.0 31.4 23.3% 120.5 28.0 23.2% Joint ventures 7.1 1.5 21.1% 15.9 5.2 32.7% 142.1 32.9 23.2% 136.4 33.2 24.3% Intangible asset amortisation 20.5 2.2 18.8 1.1 Exceptional items 5.1 2.8 7.5 1.6 116.5 27.9 23.9% 110.1 30.5 27.7% Joint venture tax 1.5 1.5 5.2 5.2 Reported in income statement 115.0 26.4 104.9 25.3 The above table excludes the profit and tax in respect of discontinued New Zealand operations.
7 Shares in issue Overall earnings per share before intangible asset amortisation and The weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year used to exceptional items increased by 11.6% to 10.6 pence, compared to 9.5 pence calculate basic earnings per share was 1,075.8m 2005: 1,154.5m.
The in 2005, reflecting the strong trading performance.
Basic earnings per share number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 April 2006 was 1,088.3m 2005: taking account of all exceptional items and intangible asset amortisation 1,063.0m, with a further 5.3m 2005: 6.5m of ordinary shares held by were 10.7 pence 2005: 7.5 pence.
employee trusts and not ranking for dividend.
Dividend cover before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items The Group has authority to repurchase 107,675,827 ordinary shares.
The total proposed dividend in respect of authority expires at the 2006 AGM and shareholders will be asked to renew ordinary shares for the year is 3.7 pence 2005: 3.3 pence.
the general authority to repurchase up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
6 Liquidity The Group has complied with all of its banking covenants throughout the 3.8.
The Group is subject to certain market standard banking Net assets at 30 April 2006 were 211.6m 2005: 115.4m with the covenants which include a limit on the level of net debt compared to increase principally reflecting the strong reported profit for the year EBITDA.
of 115.4m, which includes the gain on sale of the Groups New Zealand division.
As at 30 April 2006, the Groups committed credit facilities were 644.3m 2005: 688.8m, 295.1m 2005: 327.4m of which were utilised, including utilisation for the issuance of bank guarantees, bonds and letters of 3.8.
These facilities include 375.0m of bank facilities maturing in 2009.
The reported net assets of 211.6m 2005: 115.4m are after taking account of retirement benefit obligations of 222.2m 2005: 220.9m and The Groups liquidity position improved during the year following the cash related deferred tax assets.
The overall increase in these obligations of 1.3m received in relation to the disposal of the New Zealand division offset by the includes net obligations of 21.5m in respect of the defined benefit pension cash cost of the acquisitions of Glenvale and Traction.
schemes of companies acquired during the year.
Excluding the impact of Although there is an element of seasonality in the Groups bus and rail these acquisitions, the retirement benefit obligations fell by 20.2m during operations, the overall impact of seasonality on working capital and liquidity the year.
Of the total retirement benefit obligations, 176.3m 2005: 160.3m relates The rail operations maintain cash balances to meet working capital to the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme SGPS.
The Group will make requirements and the franchise agreement restrict the transfer of this cash: additional pension contributions prior to the planned sale of its London bus unless DfT consent is obtained, cash can only be transferred by loan or operations, which will reduce retirement benefit obligations by approximately dividend to the extent that the relevant train operating company has 60.0m.
Had the Groups rail franchises ended on the balance sheet date, consolidated 3.8.
10 Cash flows net debt would have increased by 122.7m 2005: 95.2m as a result of The strong cash generative nature of the Group is once again highlighted by train operating company cash of 89.2m 2005: 61.3m and the repayment free cash flow of 175.5m 2005: 173.6m.
Net cash outflows from of inter-company loans of 36.7m 2005: 35.1m offset by distributable investing activities were 9.9m 2005: 50.8m, including 104.4m 2005: reserves of 3.2m 2005: 1.2m.
14.7m of cash inflows from the disposal of subsidiaries and other 33.0m 2005: 33.5m of cash is held as collateral against a bank guarantee businesses, which for the year ended 30 April 2006 primarily related to the issued in relation to 37.7m 2005: 38.3m of the Groups loan note disposal of our New Zealand division.
holders and 0.8m 2005: 0.8m is held in relation to North America restricted cash balances.
The Group is able to meet current and future funding requirements through free cash flow and available committed facilities.
In addition, the Group has an investment grade rating which should allow it access at short notice to additional bank and capital markets debt funding.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 Operating and Financial Review period from 1 May 2005 to the date of disposal, and was included within 3.8.
11 Net debt profit for the year from discontinued operations in the consolidated IFRS does not explicitly define net debt.
The Group will therefore continue to income statement.
use the UK GAAP definition of net debt.
Net debt decreased from 214.6m at 30 April 2005 to 135.9m at 30 April 3.8.
This decrease reflects the benefit of ongoing cash generation from our core operations coupled with the disposal of the New Zealand division.
The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, borrowings and Offsetting this is the redemption of the remaining redeemable B preference any similar items.
As at 30 April 2006, the Groups capital comprised: shares of 13.9m and the 48.6m impact from acquisitions of subsidiaries.
2006 2005 The impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment excluding those acquired as part of business combinations for the year on net debt was m m 102.6m 2005: 99.7m.
This primarily related to expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash outflows of 91.9m 2005: 73.5m and Market value of ordinary shares in issue 1,183.8 1,101.6 new hire purchase debt of 10.7m 2005: 26.2m.
12 Capital Expenditure Borrowings 334.4 354.6 Additions to property, plant and equipment excluding those acquired as part Net debt see section 3.8.
11 135.9 214.6 of business combinations for the year were: 2006 2005 The Group manages its capital centrally and its objective in managing capital is to optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the Groups m m ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to continue to generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group also takes account of the UK Bus 73.2 51.4 interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on its capital structure.
North America 25.5 33.8 The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will be UK Rail 1.9 7.5 adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or Discontinued operations 3.2 10.8 structure of the Group, economic developments and other changes in the Groups risk profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from time to 103.8 103.5 time by any of the following: issue of new shares, dividends, return of capital to shareholders and borrowing repayment of debt.
There are a number of The differences between the amounts shown above and the impact of capital factors that the Group considers in evaluating capital structure, including the expenditure on net debt arose from movements in fixed asset deposits and likely funding requirements for retirement benefit obligations and creditors.
maintaining the Group's investment grade credit rating.
The principal ratios that the Directors consider are 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to Capital expenditure in the year ending 30 April 2007 is anticipated to be of interest and 3 Net Debt to market capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement an amount similar to that reported above.
Capital expenditure in the longeras to what the optimal levels are for these ratios.
term is expected to moderate but to remain in excess of depreciation.
13 Acquisitions and disposals Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group The Group acquired the entire share capital of Glenvale on 12 July 2005.
The Treasury under policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, consideration paid for the shares was 3.4m in cash and the Group assumed evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups the net debt of Glenvale at acquisition totalling 7.8m.
The fair value of the operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk net liabilities acquired totalled 6.4m including the 7.8m of assumed net management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as debt resulting in goodwill of 9.8m.
In the period from acquisition to 30 foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial April 2006, Glenvale contributed 17.4m to revenue and made an operating instruments and investing excess liquidity.
On 12 September 2005, the Group acquired 35% of the share capital of Treasury risk management Citylink in return for transferring certain rights to the Motorvator and For details of the Groups treasury risk management see note 27 to the megabus.
Stagecoach accounts for its consolidated financial statements.
investment in the combined business as a joint venture.
In the period from creation to 30 April 2006, the joint venture made a 0.1m contribution to Liquidity and funding the Groups operating profit.
The policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
On 14 December 2005, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Traction.
The consideration paid for the shares was 26.0m, which was Fuel hedging satisfied by 21.5m in cash and the issue of 4,022,070 Stagecoach ordinary shares of 12 19th pence each.
Stagecoach has assumed Tractions net debt of For details of the Groups fuel hedging see note 27 to the consolidated 11.0m.
The fair value of the net assets acquired totalled 17.8m including the financial statements.
11.0m of assumed net debt and acquisition costs of 0.4m were incurred resulting in goodwill of 8.6m.
In the period from acquisition to 30 April 2006, Currency rate risk Traction contributed 21.1m to revenue and made an operating profit of For details of how the Group manages currency rate risk see note 27 to the 0.4m.
On 29 November 2005, the Group disposed of its entire New Zealand Credit risk operations to Infratil Limited, a company listed on the New Zealand For details of how the Group controls credit risk see note 27 to the Exchange that is a specialist investor in infrastructure and utility assets.
net cash inflow from the disposal was 97.9m comprising the consideration of 107.0m less disposal costs of 3.1m and 6.0m of net cash disposed of.
After transaction costs and the impact of the Groups foreign exchange hedges, the disposal resulted in a gain of 22.5m.
Operating profit of 5.5m 2005: 8.7m was reported in respect of the New Zealand division in the page 12 | Stagecoach Group plc Major financing transactions assumptions are described in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements and include among others, the discount rate, expected long-term During the year the Group entered into various hire purchase and rate of return on plan assets and annual rate of increase in future salary levels.
A finance lease arrangements as described in note 31 to the consolidated portion of the plan assets is invested in equity securities.
Equity markets have financial statements.
experienced volatility, which has affected the value of the pension plan assets.
This volatility may make it difficult to estimate the long-term rate of return on Interest rate risk management plan assets.
The Directors assumptions are based on actual historical For details of how the Group manages interest rate risk see note 27 to the experience and external data.
While we believe that the assumptions are consolidated financial statements.
appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension obligation and future expense.
16 Critical accounting policies Property, plant and equipment The Groups material accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a consolidated financial statements.
straight-line basis to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS value of each asset over their estimated useful lives.
Useful lives are estimated requires directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the based on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and expected deterioration and technological obsolescence.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.
depreciation method for example, reducing balance was used or different useful lives were applied, this could have a material effect on the Groups The Directors believe that the accounting policies discussed below represent depreciation charge and net profit.
those accounting policies that require the greatest exercise of judgement.
The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of judgements could 3.9 Current trading and outlook result in material changes to our reported results.
The discussion below The current financial year to 30 April 2007 has started well and trading is in should be read in conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies.
There are a number of exciting opportunities across the Group and we are confident of achieving our objectives for the Goodwill and impairment year.
In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference 3.10 Principal risks and uncertainties to the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant Like most businesses, there are a range of risks and uncertainties facing the cash-generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if higher.
The discount Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive rate applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is based on list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
the Groups estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign forecasts.
The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions a significant degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those funding, environmental risks, strikes and litigation.
Internal risks include risks assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure will hold true.
Details of risk management procedures are given on pages 24 and 25.
Insurance The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors incidents.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third believe could have the most significant impact on the Groups long-term party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of performance.
the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made for the estimated cost to the Group net of insurance recoveries to settle claims for 3.10.1 Sustainability of rail profits incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimation of the balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected A significant element of the Groups revenues and profits are generated by settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that UK rail franchises.
There is a risk that the Groups revenues and profits could will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date be significantly affected either positively or negatively as a result of the but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The eventual Group winning new franchises or failing to retain its existing franchises.
settlements on such claims may differ from the amounts provided for at the In particular, the Group operates the South West Trains and Island Line balance sheet date.
This is of greater risk in younger operations with a franchises, which end in February 2007.
The Group is one of four remaining shorter claims history from which to make informed estimates of provisions.
bidders short-listed in the tender for a new South Western franchise that will replace the South West Trains and Island Line franchises.
There is a risk that Taxation the Group does not win the new franchise or wins it on less favourable terms The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year and tax than at present.
The successful bidder is due to be announced later in 2006. rates in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be If the Group wins the new franchise, the Directors expect profits from the made of the potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be new franchise to be less than those earned by the equivalent existing resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
Assessment of the likely franchises.
outcome is based on historical experience, professional advice from external advisors, and the current status of any judgemental issues.
However, the final The Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, operates the CrossCountry rail tax cost to the Group may differ from the estimates.
franchise due to be re-tendered for a new franchise to run from November 2007 and the West Coast rail franchise, which is currently being Pensions renegotiated.
There is a risk that Virgin Rail Group does not win the new CrossCountry franchise or wins it on unfavourable terms.
There is a further The determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and expense for risk that Virgin Rail Group is unable to renegotiate the West Coast franchise defined benefit pension plans is dependent on the selection by the Directors or renegotiates it on unfavourable terms.
of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts.
Those Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 Operating and Financial Review There are opportunities for the Group to win new franchises, including the Similarly, many of the Groups businesses benefit from some form of West Midlands franchise and the East Midlands franchise which are due to be financial support from government including direct financial support, tendered with a view to new franchises running from November 2007. government contracts and concessionary fare schemes.
There is a risk that the availability of sufficient government financial support differs due to In order to manage the risks, the Group has devoted significant management regulatory or other changes.
resource and financial investment to bidding for new rail franchises, including the new South Western franchise.
Appropriately experienced personnel are Management closely monitors relevant proposals for changes in the retained to work on rail bids and third party consultants are engaged to regulatory environment and communicates the Groups views to key provide additional expertise.
The Board approves the overall rail bidding decision makers and bodies.
The Group actively participates in various strategy and the key parameters for each bid.
industry and national trade bodies along with domestic and international government forums.
The Group seeks to maintain good, co-operative relationships with all levels of government, including the introduction of 3.10.2 Breach of franchise ideas that offer cost-effective ways of improving public transport.
The Group is required to comply with certain conditions as part of its rail franchise agreements.
If it fails to comply with these conditions, it may be liable to penalties including the potential termination of one or more of the rail 3.10.6 Management and Board succession franchise agreements.
This would result in the Group losing the right to Whilst the Group currently has sufficient personnel to manage its business, continue operating the affected operations and consequently, the related there is a risk that this does not remain the case.
The Group may also lose some or all of the amounts set Succession planning for the Directors and senior management is a key issue aside as security for the performance bonds and the season ticket bonds.
As the and as such is considered by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
The holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less appropriate level of management deals with recruitment and retention of control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups other staff.
management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreements.
3.10.7 Catastrophic events Compliance with franchise conditions are closely managed and monitored and procedures are in place to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
There is a risk that the Group is involved directly or indirectly in a major operational incident resulting in significant human injuries.
This could have a significant impact on claims against the Group, the reputation of the Group 3.10.3 Pension scheme funding and its chances of winning and retaining contracts or franchises.
The Group participates in a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group has a proactive culture that puts health and safety at the very top There is a risk that the cash contributions required to these schemes of its agenda in order to mitigate the potential for major incidents.
In the increases or decreases due to changes in factors such as investment unlikely event that a major incident did occur, the Group has procedures in performance, the rates used to discount liabilities and life expectancies.
place for responding to such incidents.
Decisions on pension scheme funding, asset allocation and benefit promises are taken by management in consultation with the pension scheme trustees, trade unions and suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions Oversight Committee 3.10.8 Treasury risks has been established comprising the Finance Director, a Non-Executive Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 27 to the Director and other senior executives, to oversee the Groups overall pensions consolidated financial statements, and include the risks arising from strategy.
The Board participates in major decisions on the funding and design movements in fuel prices.
3.11 Corporate social responsibility 3.10.4 Insurance and claims environment Stagecoach Group takes its corporate responsibilities seriously and the The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
responsible way we do business is firmly embedded in our Groups culture.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party From our approach to safety and the environment, to how we treat our insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the people, our customers, our local communities and other key stakeholders, excess on insurance policies.
we have a very clear set of values.
There is a risk that the number or magnitude of claims are not as expected As well as providing a range of economic and environmental benefits, our and that the cost to the Group of settling these claims is significantly higher bus and rail services help promote social inclusion and bring people together.
We are committed to encouraging more people to use public or lower than expected.
In the US, in particular, there is a risk given the size of transport.
This is central to our growth strategy, to the future success of the excess, that a small number of large-value claims could have a material our Group, and also important to the future of the communities in which impact on the Groups financial performance.
we operate around the world.
We have the same long-term goal of The Group has a proactive culture that puts health and safety at the very top sustainable development as our stakeholders and it is in our collective of its agenda and this helps mitigate the potential for claims arising.
Further interest to have an ongoing dialogue on how that can best be achieved.
details on the Groups management of health and safety are provided on Our Code of Business Conduct, which can be found on our website at pages 15 and 16. www.
com scg media publications policydocs codeofconduct.
pdf, confirms our core values and policies in a number of areas: how we deal Where claims do arise, they are managed by dedicated insurance and claims with our employees, suppliers, customers, competitors, and the wider specialists in order to minimise the cost to the Group.
Where appropriate, communities in which we work.
These values apply to every director, legal advice is obtained from appropriately qualified advisors.
The balance manager and employee in all our companies across our global operations.
between insured and retained risks is re-evaluated at least once a year and It is one thing to have a vision, but how that vision is implemented is insurance and claims activity is monitored closely.
Like any business in any sector, we can get better.
We are continually striving to improve our policies, practices and service 3.10.5 Regulatory changes and availability of delivery to make an increasingly positive impact on society and the public funding environment.
Building trust with our stakeholders in the wider community is vital and providing clear information on our progress and performance Public transport is subject to varying degrees of regulation across the is part of that process.
locations in which the Group operates.
There is a risk that changes to the regulatory environment could impact the Groups prospects.
Stagecoach has put in place a number of performance indicators that reflect our engagement with a range of stakeholders and these are tracked on a regular basis.
page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc year ending 30 April 2007.
We are also helping provide demand responsive 3.11.1 Stakeholders transport services in the UK, which are meeting the needs of those with Stagecoach Group works in partnership with a range of bodies in each of the mobility problems who require a service from their front door.
markets where we provide public transport services.
Significant investment is also taking place in our North American business, Further information on our stakeholders and how we build relationships with where we continue to lead the industry in terms of accessibility.
As well as them can be found on page 6. introducing new coaches that meet the Americans with Disabilities Act legislation, we have an ongoing programme to retro-fit coaches with lifts 3.11.2 Our People each year.
Stagecoach is a people business and it is the quality of our employees that ensure we can deliver a first-class quality of service day in, day out.
They are On the South West Trains network, we provide station-based ramps to crucial to our objective of attracting more people to public transport.
None of enable wheelchair users to board and alight trains with maximum this happens by chance.
We invest significant time and resources to ensure convenience.
To support the access of wheelchair users to our network, we we have the right people on board to deliver what our customers need.
are now committed to providing wheelchair users with accessible taxis to and We respect and value our staff, and we have a strong commitment to equal from stations with step-free access at no extra charge.
opportunities and partnership working with trade unions.
Access for all is also about staff training and we continue to maintain links As a major employer, we also recognise the need for ongoing training and with disability groups to ensure both the needs of our passengers and development, not just so our people can do their job, but so they can develop employees are considered.
At Sheffield Supertram, for example, the first of individually.
In our UK Bus division, we have one of the best vocational our trams have been refreshed with textured grab rails and improved seating training programmes of any UK Bus operator, designed to raise standards layouts to help passengers with visual impairment.
We are also currently among and recognise the key contribution of our drivers.
To date, some undertaking trials of new higher visibility destination blinds and investigating 60.9% of our UK Bus drivers have either achieved or are working towards the the potential for automated public address announcements.
Our close focus on recruitment and retention has resulted in achieving a full complement of drivers.
This has been assisted by Many people now access transport information online and our awardimproved pay, better training and mentoring schemes.
winning Stagecoach Group website, www.
com, has been developed in line with accessibility guidelines drawn up by the Royal National South West Trains achieved Investors in People status in September 2005 as Institute for the Blind.
a result of its huge investment in its employees to ensure they have the right skills, knowledge, experience and behaviour to provide a first-class service to passengers.
South West Trains centralised Recruitment Centre and the state 3.11.4 Health and Safety of the art Operations Training Centre are continuing to deliver benefits to our employees and better service to our customers.
South West Trains also As a major international public transport operator, a commitment to the has in place vocational training, support for managers, employee recognition highest standards of safety is at the heart of our business.
We strictly adhere programmes and round-the-clock open learning access for its staff.
to legislative regulations in all our areas of operation.
Breach of these regulations could result in criminal and or civil legal proceedings, fines and In North America, we have set up a centralised driver training school, which potential loss of contracts and licences to operate.
Stagecoach has an has improved our recruitment and training processes.
Our Canadian business has focused closely on improved screening of job applicants prior to training excellent safety record and we have a proactive culture across the Group that and this has resulted in improvements in the quality of employees recruited.
ensures the health and safety of our customers and our employees is our top priority.
Health and safety is monitored and reported on across Stagecoach We are also looking to develop the managers of the future through our Group and immediate action is taken to address issues in our business graduate recruitment initiative at Stagecoach UK Bus and South West Trains.
We have a Health, Safety and Environmental Committee that Our engineering apprenticeship programme in the UK promotes careers through local schools and career development agencies.
We have also worked considers health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and closely with government-funded enterprise agencies to get the long-term reports to the Board on these matters.
The Committee is chaired by a nonunemployed back into work, because many have vital skills that are being executive director.
Safety matters are also considered at the Board and overlooked.
management meetings of each of our businesses.
Our employees are provided with appropriate health and safety training and encouraged to Stagecoach wants to be there to help our people when they need it most.
For example, at South West Trains we have a partnership with Care First, which report any concerns.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have a offers an employee assistance programme that includes a 24-hour similar commitment to complying with appropriate regulations in this area.
confidential counselling service and legal helpline.
Safety and security issues around public transport were highlighted by the We are one of a number of employers across the UK involved in a pilot terrorist attacks in London in July 2005.
Stagecoach operated both of the scheme to research and test various ways to improve financial capability in buses that were targeted in the attacks and our employees have been the workplace.
The multi-agency project - co-ordinated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, the independent financial watchdog - involves commended for their response to these tragic incidents.
We will continue to offering our staff one to one surgeries and hard copy material.
The workplace stress the need for vigilance by our staff and customers, while at the same is seen as an ideal way to get information and education on finance to adults time ensuring accessibility to our public transport services.
and active participation by employers is vital.
The pilot is part of a national strategy to improve access to information, advice and personal finance In our UK Bus division, we are working in partnership with government and education, so that consumers are better equipped to make sound choices other agencies to improve bus safety and security.
While crime and vandalism when looking after their money and their future financial security.
rates are relatively low, we are aware they can discourage people from travelling on buses.
Stagecoach signed the UKs largest single order for CCTV 3.11.3 Accessibility in buses in the UK in April 2006.
The 1.2m deal will ensure all new buses We recognise that every customer we serve has their own specific individual ordered by Stagecoach for delivery during the year ending 30 April 2007 will needs and accessibility is a key factor in providing attractive public transport be fitted with state-of-the-art digital CCTV systems from LOOK CCTV.
As far as possible within the resources we have available, we are as assisting in our drive to increase on-board security for our passengers and continuing to make it easier for people to use our bus and rail services.
This employees, the systems can check the movement of traffic and pedestrians includes tailoring our network and frequency of services to meet demand.
as part of an accident prevention campaign.
We have made further progress during the year on our long-term Stagecoach has a number of joint programmes in place with schools and the programme to ensure all our buses in the UK are fully low-floor.
We have announced a further investment in new accessible vehicles in the UK for the police to deter anti-social behaviour and educate the next generation of Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 Operating and Financial Review public transport users.
We are also working with a number of local authorities Our internal processes designed to track environmental data have been in areas such as Oxford, Mansfield, Cheltenham and Gloucester to develop further strengthened this year and have extended the measurement of our late night bus networks to help reduce town centre crime.
At an operational performance to cover our operations in Canada.
New Zealand operations, level, we have in place a process of route risk assessments to identify which were divested in December 2005, are not included in the data for the potential safety issues.
As well as our own investment in ongoing driver year ended 30 April 2006. training, we are supporting the work of the Road Operators Safety Council to drive up standards in the industry.
Stagecoach has also helped fund safety Full details of our performance, compiled in conjunction with Arthur D Little, campaigns focused on other road users, including cyclists and drivers of can be found on the Stagecoach Group website at agricultural vehicles.
com scg csr environment performance.
South West Trains SWT is involved in the ground-breaking TravelSafe We have delivered further improvement in the direct emissions per passenger Officer security and anti-crime partnership with British Transport Police.
The journey from our bus and train fleets.
This has been achieved through our initiative continues to help reduce crime across the network and SWT has investment in new vehicles and rolling stock, as well as through the use of also received 47 Secure Station awards, more than any other train operating new fuels and cleaner technologies.
Stagecoach has ordered a number of company.
The successful withdrawal of Mark 1 rolling stock and the full new Euro 4 engined vehicles for our bus operations in the UK, which have the introduction of the Desiro fleet has helped deliver a safer and more secure potential to deliver improved fuel consumption and engine reliability.
Passengers are also benefiting from CCTV improvements and better use of biodiesel has been increased to around 1,800 buses in the UK and we lighting at 53 South West Trains stations within the London area.
Work has are continuing to use the Envirox fuel additive across our UK Bus fleet.
also been undertaken to further enhance SWTs Safety Management System, Stagecoach is also involved in a number of projects to fit exhaust gas resupported by training and briefing programmes for employees.
circulation systems to some of our vehicles in the UK.
More than 1500 of our Implementation of our Engineering Competency Management System is also buses in the UK are now fitted with CRTs, a 24% increase from 30 April 2005. continuing.
As well as improved contractor management, SWT has In our North American operations, we are the first company in New York to developed a new safety training programme for trade union health and fit our buses for use with low sulphur fuel, which significantly reduces safety representatives.
This total commitment to safety led to SWT winning emissions.
The Group has also introduced more accurate calculation methods the Sir Robert Horton Safety Award at the National Rail Awards in 2005. to assess our performance in the area of direct emissions, particularly in our UK Rail division.
In North America, we continue to meet or exceed all Federal and State regulations in the area of safety.
Regular safety audits are carried out at our Indirect emissions from our bus operations on a per passenger journey basis facilities to ensure high standards of health and safety are maintained.
We have dropped significantly over the past 12 months.
As well as being have enhanced our driver recruitment and training policies, as well as influenced by the growth in passenger volumes, this has been assisted in reducing the maximum permitted continuous hours of service for drivers, as particular by ongoing efforts to reduce energy consumption at our UK Bus part of our commitment to a safe, well-rested team.
We are working with Manchester-based Vickers Electronic Limited to performance incentives include targets related to the reduction of introduce a specialist Energy Management System, which is in use at more preventable accidents.
The management team in the United States has than 50 sites.
As well as cost savings, the system is benefiting the continued to support the work of the Federal Government and other environment.
Consumption savings at 29 gas-fired Stagecoach sites are agencies in implementing anti-terrorism measures.
We have now installed running at more than 11,000,000 kWh per annum, which represents an GPS tracking in more than 1,000 coaches for security and monitoring emissions reduction of more than 4,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year.
In Canada, we have a dedicated Occupational Health and Safety While indirect emissions per passenger journey and in total have increased in Policy Committee whose members are drawn equally from management and our rail operations, this reflects the continued introduction of Desiro trains.
As well as offering a greatly improved travelling experience for passengers, these state-of-the-art trains use higher levels of electricity than earlier rolling Public transport whether by bus, coach, train or tram - remains the safest stock.
Since 2003, the Groups indirect emissions from energy consumption way to travel.
Stagecoach Group itself has a good safety record, but we are at offices and depots have reduced by 14.4%.
not complacent and we constantly keep our safety arrangements under review.
Water consumption in our bus operations has reduced per passenger journey by more than 50%, assisted by the introduction of upgraded wash facilities, better wash management and initiatives to identify and repair water system 3.11.5 Environment leaks.
The water consumption at our rail operations on a per passenger The Group is committed to making continuing progress in improving the journey basis has remained at similar levels to the previous year.
environmental management of its operations and helping to build a sustainable environment.
Across our global operations, we provide support The Group is continuing to focus on improving the collection of data around and training for our employees to ensure compliance with legislation, as well the production of vehicle maintenance and other waste in its UK and North as effective waste management, and improved energy consumption and American operations.
South West Trains, for example, has introduced a environmental performance.
Our Environmental Policy sets out our complete waste management system called Garbology where pressure commitment to good environmental stewardship and we have put in place crushers are used to compress waste and maximise the space available for stretching targets to reduce emissions, cut water and energy consumption, waste disposal.
We are also reviewing what measures can be taken to minimise waste and identify opportunities for recycling.
increase the proportion of waste recycled from our bus and rail operations.
While waste recycled from our rail operations has increased from 6.2% in the Stagecoach has made further progress this year in improving the 12 months to 30 April 2005 to 40.0% in the 12 months to 30 April 2006, environmental management of our operations and helping to build a waste recycled from our bus operations has dropped from 31.9% in the 12 sustainable environment.
We believe public transport can play a significant months to 30 April 2005 to 29% in the 12 months to 30 April 2006. part in reducing pollution, cutting congestion and contributing to a higher quality of life in our communities.
Stagecoach is also taking steps to ensure Across our operations, we provide support and training for our employees to its operations are carried out in a responsible manner.
ensure compliance with legislation, as well as effective waste management, and improved energy consumption and environmental performance.
The We have worked closely with consultants Arthur D Little to measure the environmental training programme at our UK Bus division has been fully environmental impact of our transport operations in the past 12 months.
Around 200 depot managers, safety representatives and supervisors Arthur D Little have also assisted in setting new stretching targets as part of have been trained in the last two years, with all key personnel to be trained our commitment to good environmental stewardship.
These key performance every three years on a rolling programme.
In Manchester, a campaign is indicators cover reductions in emissions, lower water and energy currently underway on all new double deck vehicles to reduce engine idling consumption, minimising waste and identifying opportunities for recycling.
time to a maximum of 15 minutes, after which the engine will shut down.
page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc We have also continued our support for the road safety charity Brake and social behaviour.
Stagecoach is backing an innovative education, prevention other organisations to benchmark and share good practice in safe driving and and intervention programme designed to educate parents, and other carers, driving methods designed to improve fuel efficiency.
At South West Trains, about drugs.
The initiative, developed by the national charity Care for the Wimbledon Traincare depot has achieved ISO14001 accreditation and other Family, gives parents the information and skills they need to help their units are currently being assessed by the British Standards Institute as part of children understand the harmful use of drugs, alcohol and tobacco.
With the our commitment to continuous improvement in environmental support of Stagecoach, more than 1,000 parents in South Manchester will be management.
able to benefit from tailored How to Drug Proof Your Kids courses.
Our support also assists many local initiatives that help provide opportunities for In many areas, Stagecoach is working in partnership with major employers to young people.
Stagecoach recently pioneered the Park & Read concept in help develop travel plans that reduce the dependence of employees on the Cambridge as part of World Book Day, offering quick read books on all park & car to get to work.
In Scotland, we are involved in innovative street football and twilight league initiatives in conjunction with local clubs and the police.
Stagecoach has made further improvements and investment in the area of environmental sustainability over the past year, however we recognise that Stagecoach is also helping promote social inclusion with our communities to we can do more.
We want to build on the progress we have made and, as help those who are the most vulnerable.
A national agreement with Guide part of our commitment, we have set new stretching environmental targets Dogs for the Blind, for example, allows the dog trainers free travel on our across our business.
We have continued to support the UK educational charity businessdynamics, which provides courses designed to build the skills and confidence of young 3.11.6 Community investment and charitable activities people as they prepare to enter the worlds of work and further education.
For more than 25 years, Stagecoach has been a key part of local communities around the world.
As well as providing lifeline transport services and Our South West Trains rail franchise operates services in 13 different English significant job opportunities, the Group is committed to investing in each of counties, where we are involved in many projects to boost social inclusion the communities we serve.
We want local people to share in our success and across our extensive network.
The Lymington Heritage Line was launched last that is why every year we help fund the vital work of local, national and year with the purchase and refurbishment of two trains, now in their original international charities.
The initiative, which is helping to make the line more cost During the year ended 30 April 2006, Stagecoach Group donated 0.6m effective and safeguard its future, has won a National Community Rail Award.
2005: 0.3m to help many worthwhile causes, including many health The DfT is now concluding consultation regarding proposed designation of charities and local community projects in areas where we provide lifeline the route as a Community Rail Line.
Overseas, a convoy of coaches from our United States operations helped In July 2005, many people lost their lives as a result of the terrorist attack in assist the Hurricane Katrina relief effort in New Orleans.
The support team London and these shocking events touched our Group directly.
The Group helped evacuate some of the thousands of people made homeless by the donated 100,000 to the London Bombings Relief Fund, which was set up by disaster.
Coach USA employees also donated bottled water, food items and the Mayor of London in association with the British Red Cross to help provide toiletries, which were delivered to the American Red Cross to be distributed practical assistance to the victims families.
Stagecoach also matched the to those in need.
fund-raising of its employees around the country who wanted to play their part in responding positively to these tragic events.
These are only a small number of examples of our work in supporting and working with our local communities.
This approach has been a cornerstone Hundreds of our employees devote their own time every day to local projects of our business philosophy for more than a quarter of a century and we will that make a real difference in their area.
Our businesses provide muchcontinue to work hard to be a responsible part of these communities in the needed in-kind support, while our people also give charities the benefit of future.
We also believe in recognising the contribution local people make in their own communities every year, which is why we have co-sponsored Scotlands annual Our Heroes Awards.
Much of the backing we provide is focused on education and young people, assisting organisations such as the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, NCH, the childrens charity, and PiggybankKids, which supports a wide range of childrens projects.
We work closely with schools and police on local crime prevention initiatives and education of youngsters about the dangers and consequences of antiStagecoach Group plc | page 17
