Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 30 November 006 Year ended 30 November 006 continued interest other than as a shareholder competitive market, with a substantial The maximum face value of Introduction As part of the consultation, it was Employee Benefit Trusts and in the matters decided.
proportion of their remuneration being awards for Executive Directors originally explained that SThrees Chief other Share Plans This report has been prepared in performance-related.
The Directors participating in the first tranche is Executive Officer, Russell Clements, accordance with Schedule 7A to the To help achieve its objectives, the may earn annual bonus payments as 0% of salary: The Group has a culture that and Chief Operating Officer, Sunil Companies Act 985 as amended Committee has appointed and taken a percentage of their basic salary, as encourages share participation at all Wickremeratne, had decided to forgo All Executive Directors awards by the Directors Remuneration independent advice from Towers defined and agreed by the Committee.
Two Employee Benefit Trusts their opportunity to participate in must be subject to a performance Regulations 00 the Regulations, Perrin, in relation to remuneration It is anticipated that policy for 007 EBTs, which were funded by gifts initial awards made under the LTIP.
condition, assessed three years relevant provisions of the Listing matters and on share incentive and for the foreseeable future will from some of the current and former However, following a recommendation after the date of grant, with no Rules and the Combined Code.
Towers Perrin do not remain the same.
Directors, hold assets comprising by the Committee, both subsequently facility to re-test performance.
For have any other connection with the shares in the Company.
The shares agreed to participate in the initial other participants, the Committee The Regulations require the auditors to Company.
In order to ensure an appropriate in the EBTs are held for awards and awards.
This change was prompted has discretion to decide whether report to the Companys shareholders balance between fixed and grants under share option and share by a combination of factors, such as or not a performance condition on the auditable part of the Directors performance-related pay, annual award schemes introduced prior Remuneration policy making sure their participation would should apply to grants: Remuneration Report and to state cash bonus payments are dependent to flotation, in which a number of not unduly impact dilution levels: For all participants, the whether in their opinion that part of The remuneration policy has been on the Groups annual financial employees currently participate.
in response to some investors who performance condition for the the report has been properly prepared designed to ensure that the Group performance and the receipt of shares preferred to see them included as first tranche of awards under the in accordance with the Companies Act has the ability to attract and retain under the new Long Term Incentive In respect of those share plans and best practice: and also the desire of LTIP will be relative total 985 as amended by the Regulations.
Directors and senior managers of a Plan will be primarily dependent related Trusts introduced prior to the Committee that they participate shareholder return TSR.
The report has therefore been divided high calibre, to align the interests on enhanced relative returns to flotation, specifically these comprise on the same basis as other senior For these awards, all the shares into separate sections for audited and of senior management with those shareholders over a three-year period.
an Executive Share Option Scheme, management.
A letter explaining this will vest only where SThrees TSR unaudited information.
of shareholders and be compliant the Forfeitable Share Plan, the Share was sent out on December 006, to is at or above the upper quartile with recommended practice.
Executive Directors are required Gift Plan, and the No.
all those originally consulted and on of a selection of UK-listed peer As required by the Regulations, a Individual pay levels are determined to obtain the Boards prior written ESOP.
ESOP, this 8 February 007, awards of Forfeitable group companies.
For 007, this resolution to approve the report will by reference to competitive market consent to accept external had adopted a Trust Option Plan the Shares were made as follows, based group consists of 8 companies, be proposed at the forthcoming conditions, performance, experience appointments.
Currently they hold no Trust Option Plan and had agreed on a market price of 40 p per share: primarily from the FTSE Support Annual General Meeting.
In setting the such positions.
to satisfy the majority of options Services sector.
No shares will policy the Committee considers, granted under the Executive Share Number of vest for these awards if SThrees for benchmarking purposes, the Unaudited Information Option Scheme, and all awards under Long Term Incentive Plan Forfeitable TSR performance is below median remuneration of relevant senior the Forfeitable Share Plan, with Name of Shares awarded and 30% of the shares will vest Remuneration Committee management in comparable quoted During the year, the Committee shares existing in the Trust.
Under the Director under LTIP at median, with linear vesting or similar companies.
The Chairman reviewed executive remuneration in terms of the Trust Deed constituting The Remuneration Committee Russel Clements 78,358 in between.
The Committee will and Chief Executive Officer, with conjunction with its advisors, a key the No.
ESOP, the Trustees have the Committee determines Michael Nelson 6, 686 also ensure that the underlying the support of external professional objective being to design a shareundertaken to waive all dividend the remuneration policy and the Sunil Wickremeratne 65,8 0 financial performance of the advice, determine the remuneration based Long Term Incentive Plan rights on Ordinary Shares comprised individual remuneration packages Company is taken into account of the Non-Executive Directors on LTIP for Executive Directors in the trust fund, above 0.0 p per of the Chairman, the Executive The main features of the LTIP are as when determining to what behalf of the Board.
and other members of the senior share.
The Executive Directors do not Directors, the Company Secretary and follows: extent awards have vested.
The management team, to support currently participate in any of these certain key senior management posts.
Committee believes that TSR is There are three main elements of the SThrees philosophy and culture, Awards of shares can be made, arrangements.
The Committees Terms of Reference the most appropriate performance remuneration package for Executive as well as providing an incentive to each year, to Executive Directors are available at www.
condition at this time given the Directors: increase shareholder value and build and other senior executives: Executive Directors service clear link between the reward up a stake in SThree shares.
Awards can be either of free During the year the Committee provided to Executive Directors contracts basic annual salary and benefits, shares, to be received in a number comprised only independent Nonand the investment return including company car allowance, Following a consultation exercise It is the Companys policy that of years, or grants of market value Executive Directors, its current enjoyed by our shareholders.
pension contributions and health with the Companys larger Executive Directors should have options: members being Brian McBride insurance cover: institutional shareholders, an LTIP contracts with a rolling term providing Chairman, The Baroness Noakes, There is an annual maximum face During the consultation exercise, was approved at an EGM held on 7 annual cash bonus payments: and for a maximum of one years notice.
and, with effect from 5 October value of awards of 75% of salary, some shareholders expressed November 006, with first awards Consequently, no Executive Director share-based long-term incentives 006, Tony Ward.
Russell Clements whilst over a three-year period the concern that 30% of the shares, as made on 8 February 007.
For has a contractual notice period in see Long Term Incentive Chief Executive Officer regularly Committee intends that no opposed to salary, would vest at those who participate, the LTIP excess of months.
attends meetings, except for matters Executive Director will receive median.
The Committee notes this will eventually replace current of early termination, this ensures related to his own remuneration.
The awards in excess of a face value of concern and has undertaken to take entitlements under the existing that compensation is restricted to a The Groups policy is to position the Committee met five times during 450% of salary: it into account when making awards Executive Share Option Scheme maximum of months basic base salaries of Directors and senior the year and no member of the with higher face values of salary.
operated by the Company before management at between lower Committee has any personal financial flotation.
quartile and median for the relevant SThree plc SThree plc 5 7 5 8 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 30 November 006 continued Year ended 30 November 006 continued salary benefits.
The Committee achievement above these targets, which he receives an additional fee of Total Shareholder Return TSR will generally require mitigation to bonus was paid, based on a pool of 5,000 pa. Brian McBride is Chairman reduce the compensation payable to a 0% of profits achieved above target, of the Remuneration Committee for The graph below illustrates the Total Shareholder Return TSR of the Company since flotation on 6 November 005, for departing Director.
which he receives an additional fee of the Group and the FTSE Support Services index, which is considered the most appropriate comparator index, as it is the No bonus is paid for achievement 5,000 pa.
The Baroness Noakes is index in which the Company appears and is also used for comparing pay and benefit levels.
Russell Clements, Sunil below 85% of target, with pro-rata Chairman of the Audit Committee for SThree vs FTSE Support Services Wickremeratne and Michael Nelson payment for achievement between which she receives an additional fee are employed under service contracts 85% and 00% of target.
For 007, of 5,000 pa. with the Company which commenced where agreed targets are achieved, 210 on November 005.
Each of these 50% of salary will be payable equally Alicja Lesniak and Tony Ward were contracts provide an entitlement to to all Executive Directors, based on appointed Non-Executive Directors 190 a basic annual salary, performance profit before tax.
For achievement on 3 May 006 and 4 August 006, bonus scheme participation, a above target, the payment basis will respectively, with annual fees of company car allowance, pension remain the same.
170 contributions and health insurance are eligible to receive an employers cover.
Each contract is terminable contribution to their personal pension Non-Executive Directors are appointed 150 bymonths notice given by schemes equivalent to 0% of their for an initial term of three years, either party.
basic salaries, subject to each terminable by either the Company Executive Director making 5% personal or the Non-Executive Director at 130 contributions.
During the prior year will, and, in normal circumstances, Executive Directors each was eligible to receive an and subject to performance and reremuneration, bonus and 110 employers contribution of, 000 pa. election at Annual General Meetings, pension arrangements they would be expected to serve for a 90 second three-year term.
During the year ended 30 Non-Executive Directors November 006, the basic annual All Non-Executive Directors have Non-Executive Directors may be salaries of Russell Clements, Sunil 70 specific letters of appointment, requested to serve for a further third Wickremeratne and Michael Nelson available upon request, and their three-year term subject to rigorous were 50,000, 0,000 and remuneration is determined by the 50 review at the relevant time and their 00,000, respectively.
Salaries are Board within the limits set by the agreement.
Upon termination or Nov-05 Dec-05 Jan-06 Feb-06 Mar-06 Apr-06 May-06 Jun-06 Jul-06 Aug-06 Sep-06 Oct-06 Nov-06 normally reviewed in December each Articles of Association and based on resignation, Non-Executive Directors year, and from December 006, independent surveys of fees paid to Source: Datastream are not entitled to compensation these were increased to 6, 500, SThree FTSE All Share Support Services Index Non-Executive Directors of similar and no fee is payable in respect of 0,500 and 0,000, respectively.
Remuneration is set the unexpired portion of the term of AUDITED INFORMATION A benchmarking exercise of total taking account of the commitment appointment.
Non-Executive Directors benefits will be undertaken during Directors remuneration and responsibilities of the relevant cannot participate in any Company 007.
Executives are eligible for role.
The Non-Executive Directors do incentive scheme.
The table below summarises all Directors emoluments and pension contributions for the current and the prior year for annual bonus payments, at the not have service contracts.
No payments for loss of office were made during the year and no other awards were made to any Director.
The bonuses are based on the Sir Anthony Cleaver, Brian McBride 2006 2005 achievement of Group operating profit and The Baroness Noakes each targets, which are reviewed by the Name of Director Salary and fees Pensions Benefits Bonuses Total Total have letters of appointment as Committee at the start of the year and 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Directors dated the maximum bonus opportunity is November 005.
These replaced EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS currently 00% of salary.
During the prior letters of appointment signed year, full bonus was accrued for all Russell Clements 50 5 50 536 30 before flotation.
The current letters of Executive Directors.
Michael Nelson 00 0 00 43 69 appointment provide for annual fees Sunil Wickremeratne 0 0 45 44 to Sir Anthony Cleaver, Brian McBride For 006, 35% in respect of the and The Baroness Noakes of 70,000, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chief Executive Officer and 50% 35,000 and 35,000 respectively.
in respect of the Chef Financial Sir Anthony Cleaver 75 75 60 Officer and Chief Operating Officer The Baroness Noakes 40 40 5 Sir Anthony Cleaver is Chairman of salary was paid where the agreed Brian McBride 40 40 5 of the Nomination Committee, for profit targets were achieved.
For Alicja Lesniak 0 0 Tony Ward 0 0 Aggregate emoluments 845 66 33 660, 604 908 Benefits in kind include car allowances, medical and life insurance.
SThree plc SThree plc 5 9 5 0 Total Shareholder Return % Directors Remuneration Report Corporate Governance Report Year ended 30 November 006 continued Year ended 30 November 006 The Company is committed to high matters to be discussed.
Minutes of financial and operational controls Directors interests in shares and share options standards of corporate governance all Committee meetings are circulated while providing sufficient flexibility to At flotation, all classes of share were converted into Ordinary shares of pence each.
The Directors interests in the share and this report outlines how it to all the Directors, irrespective manage the business.
capital of the Company at 30 November 006 are shown below and there have been no changes to this information as at has complied with the provisions of Committee membership.
Each the date of this report other than for Tony Ward, who purchased, 447 Ordinary shares on 8 February 007 at a price of of the revised Combined Code on Director ensures that if he she has Certain powers are delegated to 4 5.97p per share.
No Director had any other interest in the share capital of the Company or its subsidiaries, or exercised Corporate Governance issued by the any concerns, which cannot be the Remuneration Committee, any share options during the year, other than as already disclosed.
Financial Reporting Council in June resolved, about the Company or a Audit Committee and Nomination 003 the Code.
During 006, the proposed action, such concerns Committee.
Details of the roles and Name of Director Ordinary shares held Changes in year Ordinary shares held at Percentage Company has complied with all key are recorded in the Board minutes.
responsibilities of these Committees at 1 Dec 2005 30 Nov 2006 of Share Capital provisions of the Code.
The Board Appropriate insurance cover is in are set out under the relevant section is accountable to the Companys place in respect of legal action against below.
% shareholders for good corporate the Directors.
Russell Clements 4,738, 5 4,738, 5 3.43% governance and this statement The Board - balance, Michael Nelson 5,000 0,4 5 45,4 5 0.
% describes how the relevant principles The number of, and attendance at, independence and of governance have been applied.
Board and Committee meetings Sunil Wickremeratne 0,786,075 0,786,075 7.8 % appointments during the year, is shown under The Baroness Noakes, 500, 500 0.0 % the relevant section below.
Outside The Board comprises a balance The Board - Framework Brian McBride, 500, 500 0.0 % these, there was frequent contact of Executive and Non-Executive An effective Board is in place, which between Directors to discuss the Alicja Lesniak 4, 45 4, 45 0.0 % Directors who bring a wide range provides entrepreneurial leadership Companys affairs and develop its of skills and experience to its Tony Ward and overall control of the Group.
Arrangements are in place deliberations.
The Non-Executive Boards main role is to create value for for the Chairman to meet with the Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate or as at date of appointment shareholders, to approve the Groups Non-Executive Directors without the accountability and have a particular long-term strategic objectives, and to Executive Directors being present, responsibility to ensure that the During the year, Michael Nelson was awarded 34,7 shares at a market value of 37 p per share, 4,307 of which were sold develop robust corporate governance either before or after each Board strategies proposed by the Executive to discharge tax and other liabilities.
If Michael Nelson ceases to be a Director before certain agreed dates, other than due and risk management practices, meeting.
Directors are fully discussed and to illness or other defined reasons, he must transfer the following numbers of shares to SThrees Employee Benefit Trust, whilst ensuring that the necessary critically examined, not only in at the price he paid for them, being per share 6,667 shares before November 007: 5,000 shares before April 008. financial and other resources are The Group has identified a number the best long-term interests of made available to enable those of key areas that are subject to shareholders, but also to take proper Whilst the Company does not have formal share retention guidelines in place, the Group has a culture which encourages objectives to be met.
The Board is regular reporting to the Board and account of the interests of customers, share participation at all levels.
In particular, as shown above, both Russell Clements and Sunil Wickremeratne have responsible to shareholders for the this enables the performance of employees and other stakeholders.
It is currently estimated that, in total, nearly 40% of the Companys share capital is held by proper management of the Group.
management to be reviewed and The Non-Executive Directors are Directors, Founders, the Employee Benefit Trusts, senior management and other employees.
A schedule of matters all experienced and influential A statement of the Directors reserved for the Board is reviewed On 30 November 006, the closing market price of SThree plc Ordinary shares was 377p.
The highest and lowest prices of individuals and through their mix responsibilities in respect of the and approved on a regular basis.
these shares during the year was 398.5p and 98p respectively, based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
of skills and business experience Annual Report is set out in the This formally outlines all matters they contribute significantly to the Directors Report.
Directors have a requiring specific consent of the effective functioning of the Board Approval wide range of experience of various Board and includes, inter-alia, the and its Committees, ensuring that industry sectors relevant to the This report was approved by the Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the date shown below and signed on its behalf by: approval of Group strategy and matters are fully debated and that no Groups business and each member operating plans, the annual budget, one individual or group dominates the brings independent judgement to the Annual Report, the Interim Report decision making process.
bear in the interests of the Company and related announcements, major on issues of strategy, performance, divestments and capital expenditure, At year-end, the Board comprised the resources and standards of conduct.
large acquisitions and disposals, the Chairman, three Executive Directors The Board has an appropriate and recommendation of dividends and and four independent Non-Executive Brian McBride varied range of skills, vital to the the approval of treasury and risk Directors.
The Chairman and Senior Chairman of the Remuneration Committee success of the Group.
Independent Non-Executive Director 3 March 007 are available to shareholders to Board and Committee meeting papers The schedule facilitates structured discuss governance issues or should are circulated well in advance of the delegation, subject to certain there be matters of concern that have relevant meeting and where a Director financial limits, and thereby provides not, or cannot, be addressed through is unable to attend he she is provided a practical framework for executive the Chief Executive Officer, Chief with a copy of the papers and has management, which seeks to achieve Financial Officer or Chief Operating the opportunity to comment on the the objectives of maintaining effective Officer.
However, no requests to SThree plc SThree plc 5 5
