OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Group.
This new group will focus on Strategy and objectives Introduction coordinating our customer-focused activities This Operating and Financial Review OFR so as to maximise the profitability and Tate & Lyles purpose is to create the worlds provides a broader perspective of Tate & market reach of our range of value added Lyles business to enable a more informed leading renewable ingredients business.
and functional food ingredients, as well as In order to grow our business and create judgement to be made of the Groups taking us into new ingredient areas and financial performance and prospects.
value for our shareholders, our strategic growth opportunities in the future.
objectives are to: Forward-looking statements grow the contribution from value Operate efficiently The OFR contains certain forward-looking added products: We are committed to being a low-cost statements with respect to the financial invest in acquisitions and partnerships: producer.
Through our expertise in highcondition, results, operations and unite our business: volume process management, our focus on businesses of Tate & Lyle.
These operate efficiently: technical and manufacturing excellence and statements and forecasts involve risk and invest in technology and people: and the efficient use of services such as logistics uncertainty because they relate to events serve our customers.
and utilities, we are continually working to and depend upon circumstances that will improve the efficiency of our operations.
There are a number Each of these strategic objectives is explained in more detail below.
of factors that could cause actual results Invest in technology and people or developments to differ materially from We are increasing our investment in our Grow our value added products those expressed or implied by these research and development capabilities to forward-looking statements and forecasts.
We are committed to continuing to grow underpin our strategy to grow our value the contribution from our value added added products.
We believe this is a key products such as our speciality food differentiator for Tate & Lyle.
We are Business description starches and sweeteners and SPLENDA recruiting more scientists and increasing Sucralose and to develop other products expenditure to help us develop innovative Tate & Lyle is a world leading maufacturer such as Bio-PDO.
By providing distinctive, solutions that meet our customers product of renewable food and industrial ingredients.
high-value products and solutions for our challenges.
We are also leveraging our Founded in the UK in 1921, Tate & Lyle is customers, we will benefit from higher research and development capabilities a global company with more than 65 margins and greater earnings stability.
through business and technology production facilities in 29 countries partnerships, university collaborations and predominantly throughout Europe, the Invest in acquisitions and partnerships investments in start-up companies.
Americas and South East Asia.
Tate & Lyle has expanded its business through selected acquisitions.
We continually To develop talent, improve leadership and Tate & Lyle has its roots in a number of evaluate opportunities that would add help our employees succeed, we are well-established companies, focused on strategic value by enabling us to enter new implementing The Tate & Lyle People sugars in Europe and Canada, wheat and markets or add products, technologies and Strategy.
This consists of various corn milling in Europe and corn milling in knowledge more efficiently than we could programmes designed to ensure we have the the US.
All our ingredients are produced organically.
right skills at all levels to grow our business from renewable crops, predominantly corn and to enable our employees to meet new maize, wheat and sugar, but on a smaller We also expect to grow our business by challenges as their careers progress.
scale incorporating other agricultural forming joint ventures and partnerships to products.
We take these renewable crops develop and distribute new products, and Serve our customers and transform them through the use of to enhance the capabilities of our existing Delivering excellent customer service is innovative technology into value added ingredient portfolio.
As we have found with at the core of everything we do and we ingredients and solutions for food, beverage our global alliance with McNeil Nutritionals consistently monitor our performance using and industrial customers across the world.
for SPLENDA Sucralose and with our joint a variety of measures.
Our Global Quality venture with DuPont for Bio-PDO, using The Group operates through five divisions: Service and Standards set consistent high alliances and joint ventures can be an levels of service and quality which are Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas: efficient way to lower our cost of investing expected to apply across the Group.
Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe: in new areas and markets and help secure This enables us to fulfil our customers Sucralose: access to new and complementary requirements efficiently wherever we Sugars, Americas & Asia: and technology and expertise.
Unite our business Our aim is to ensure that we can help our These divisions are supported by a number Tate & Lyle has a customer-focused global customers develop more successful and of global business groups and the corporate approach to marketing.
To support this innovative consumer products.
Tate & Lyles Head Office in London.
approach, all of our divisions operate strategy is to be the partner of choice in our A description of the performance of the together under the Tate & Lyle name.
At the Tate & Lyle Group and each of its five enables us to present a consistent global highest level this involves getting a better divisions for the year ended 31 March 2006, portfolio of distinctive, profitable, high-value understanding of our customers longer and significant developments which products and services to our customers.
term strategic direction, and current occurred during the year, is set out in the consumer trends, in order to strengthen To accelerate our growth strategy, we have Chief Executives Review on pages 8 to 11 our relationships.
formed a new Global Food Ingredients and on pages 26 to 34 of this OFR.
