3 3 Our first two Finest Over 2,500 products potato lines, Exquisa feature our new and Smile, were nutritional labelling specifically selected by the end of this year to offer customers the entire range will an enhanced taste.
Operating and financial review Group summary This operating and financial review OFR # # 2006 2005 Change analyses the performance of the Tesco Group m m % in the financial year ended 25 February 2006.
Group sales It also explains other aspects of the Groups including value added tax 43,137 36,957 16.7 results and operations, including strategy New underlying profit before tax 2,277 1,925 18.3 and risk management.
Group profit before taxation 2,235 1,894 18.0 Long term strategy New underlying diluted Tesco has a well-established and consistent earnings per share p 20.30 17.58 15.5 strategy for growth, which is strengthening the Diluted earnings per share p 19.92 17.30 15.1 core business and driving our expansion into new Dividend per share p 8.63 7.56 14.2 markets.
This four-part strategy was laid down in 02 03 04 05 06 1997 and it has been the foundation of Tescos SALES PERFORMANCE m success in recent years.
Its objectives are: UK performance GROUP to grow the core UK business, 2006 2005 Change UK m m % to become a successful international retailer, Including 60 weeks Sales International including value added tax 32,657 29,511 10.7 to be as strong in non-food as in food, and Operating profit 1,788 1,556 14.9 to develop retailing services such as Tesco Pre-property Personal Finance, Telecoms and tesco.
com operating profit 1,698 1,535 10.6 Tesco has again delivered a strong performance, Pre-property operating margin 5.7% 5.7% with all four parts of the strategy contributing well.
We have sustained good growth in the UK, despite more competitive conditions in the retail Rest of Europe performance 2006 2005 Change market and against the exceptional growth of the m m % previous two years.
Sales In our international operations we have also including value added tax 5,820 4,349 33.8 made solid progress, completing our largest ever Operating profit 263 243 8.2 programme of new store openings in our existing Pre-property operating profit 269 212 26.9 markets, and we have also announced our Pre-property 02 03 04 05 06 intention to enter the United States in 2007. operating margin 5.3% 5.6% UK SALES GROWTH % In non-food, more customers are choosing to TOTAL shop with us even in a period of more cautious LIKE-FOR-LIKE Asia performance consumer spending.
Finally, our retailing services # # 2006 2005 Change 53rd WEEK have delivered another good year, with tesco.
com m m % continuing its rapid growth, Tesco Personal Sales including value added tax 4,660 3,097 50.5 Finance making progress in challenging markets Operating profit 229 153 49.7 and Telecoms serving over 1.5 million customers.
Pre-property operating profit 236 156 51.3 Pre-property operating margin 5.4% 5.4% Adjusted for IAS 32, IAS 39 and the net difference between the IAS 19 pension charge and normal cash contributions for pensions.
Operating profit excluding profit or loss on property-related items.
Pre-property operating margin is calculated using sales excluding value added tax.
Results for the year ended 25 February 2006 include 52 weeks for the UK and Republic of Ireland and 14 months for the Tesco plc 1 majority of the remaining International businesses.
Operating and financial review continued Group performance week basis, Group sales increased by 13.2% at actual rates to 41.8bn last year 37.0bn and These results represent good progress across the at constant exchange rates sales grew by 11.6%.
Group in a more challenging year.
By investing to improve the shopping experience for customers Group profit before tax increased by 18.0% to in our businesses around the world, we have 2,235m.
On a 52-week basis, new underlying been able to deliver another strong sales pre-tax profit increased by 16.9% to 2,251m.
performance, meet the demands of higher oilFor comparison, using our pre-IFRS underlying related and other external costs and improve profit definition, profit increased by 13.7% to returns for shareholders.
Year end convergence We announced in April IFRSs From the beginning of the financial year 2005 that due to the increasing contribution our we fully adopted International Financial 02 03 04 05 06 International businesses make to Group results, Reporting Standards IFRSs.
Prior year 2004 05 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE m we had taken the decision to align our comparatives have been restated and these are International accounting period with the UKs used as the basis for comparison throughout this GROUP year-end in 2005 06.
These results therefore review, except for the adoption of IAS 32 and UK report on the performance of our International IAS 39, for which we used the exemption business on the basis of a 60-week year, available under IFRS 1 in 2004 05, and which including a 36-week second half to the end of were adopted for the first time in 2005 06.
February, compared with the normal 52 weeks to The impact of IFRSs on profit after tax for the the end of December.
The UK and the Republic whole of 2005 06, before IAS 32 and IAS 39, of Irelands accounting periods remain unchanged.
is a reduction of 37m, broadly in line with the Where appropriate, for ease of comparison, guidance we provided at our IFRS Seminar in International and Group results are also reported February 2005.
Together, IAS 32 and IAS 39 on a 52-week basis based on the normal reduce pre-tax profit in the year by 13m.
12 month calendar year for International.
The following table shows key results as reported Group Group sales, including VAT, increased by under IFRSs and the equivalent performance 16.7% at actual rates to 43.1bn.
At constant using our previous accounting policies under exchange rates, sales grew by 15.0%.
1 year 3 years 5 years TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN RELATIVE TO THE F TSE 100 % Key IFRS profit measures and UK GAAP equivalent measures 52-Week comparison basis IFRS UK GAAP equivalent 2006 2005 Growth 2006 2005 Growth Group profit before tax m 2,210 1,894 16.7% 2,287 1,962 16.6% New underlying profit m 2,251 1,925 16.9% n a n a n a Pre-IFRS Group underlying profit m n a n a n a 2,307 2,029 13.7% # UK operating profit m 1,788 1,556 14.9% 1,858 1,694 9.7% # Asia operating profit m 200 153 30.7% 200 152 31.6% # Europe operating profit m 265 243 9.1% 272 218 24.8% Joint ventures & Associates m 82 74 10.8% 160 135 18.5% Underlying diluted EPS p 20.06 17.58 14.1% 20.43 18.30 11.6% Under UK GAAP, Taiwan losses are included.
Underlying pre-tax profit excluded net profit or loss on disposal of fixed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
02 03 04 05 06 Under IFRSs Joint ventures and Associates profit is reported net of interest and tax.
UK SALES AREA OPENED # 000 sq ft Under UK GAAP, our operating profit measure excluded net profit or loss on disposal of fixed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
when they get to the checkouts.
International Total International sales grew Petrol continues to have a significant impact on by 40.7% to 10.5bn last year 7.4bn and sales growth, helped by our efforts to keep fuel by 31.8% at constant exchange rates.
On a prices down, although its contribution to like-for- 52-week basis, International sales increased by like sales during the second half, against last 23% to 9.2bn and at constant exchange rates, years exceptionally strong growth, was lower sales grew by 15.5%.
International contributed 492m to operating Fourth quarter like-for-like sales growth, profit, up 24.2% on last year.
Including petrol, pre-property operating profit rose 28.8% on like-for-like sales grew by 6.2%.
At constant exchange rates, by 9.4% in the quarter, including 3.2% from International pre-property operating profit grew net new stores.
In the final seven weeks of the by 21.6%.
On a 52-week basis, International year, like-for-like sales growth was 4.0% 02 03 04 05 06 operating profit increased by 17.4% to 465m.
excluding petrol and adjusting for the different NUMBER OF INTERNATIONAL HYPERMARKETS At constant exchange rates profit grew by 10.8%.
We saw slower like-for-like growth in January but the rate of growth picked In Asia, sales grew by 50.5% to 4.7bn last year up in February and again in the early weeks 3.1bn.
At constant rates, sales grew by 39.0%.
Operating profit increased by 49.7% to 229m last year 153m and by 38.2% at constant Through good cost control and productivity we rates.
On a 52-week basis, Asia operating profit have absorbed significant external cost increases increased by 30.7% to 200m.
At constant during the year, particularly during the second exchange rates profit grew by 20.6%.
Asia prehalf, arising mainly from higher oil-related costs property operating profit rose 30.1% to 203m and increases in local business taxes.
Consequently, UK operating profit was 14.9% In the Rest of Europe, sales rose by 33.8% to higher at 1,788m last year 1,556m.
At constant rates, sales property operating profit rose 10.6% to 1,698m, grew by 26.7%.
Operating profit increased by leaving the operating margin unchanged at 5.7%.
8.2% to 263m last year 243m and by 3.9% Joint ventures and Associates Our share at constant rates.
On a 52-week basis, Rest of of profit net of tax and interest was 82m Europe operating profit increased by 9.1% to compared to 74m last year.
At constant exchange rates profit grew Finance profit was 139m, of which our share by 4.7%.
Operating profit growth was impacted was 70m, down 1.4% on last year, due by the existence of a one-off 31m property to the change in provisioning policy for bad debts profit in the prior year.
Rest of Europe preunder IFRSs and the competitive nature of the property operating profit rose 22.7% to 271m motor insurance market.
On a pre-IFRS basis, on a 52-week basis.
profit was slightly higher than last year, including UK UK sales increased by 10.7% to 32.7bn growth of 2.4% in the second half.
last year 29.5bn, with like-for-like growth of 7.5% including volume of 7.6% and 3.2% from net new stores.
Deflation overall was 0.1%, despite the effect of rising oil prices on our petrol business.
We saw deflation of 1.8% in our stores as we continued to invest in lowering prices for customers.
Tesco plc 3 102 152 194 273 341 4 4 One in seven We sell customers buy three million from our clothing mugs a year.
Operating and financial review continued Net finance costs were 127m last year 132m, giving We expect Group capital expenditure to be around 3.0bn interest cover of 18.6 times last year 15.3 times.
Tax has been this year, reflecting a stable level of investment in the existing charged at an effective rate of 29.0% last year 28.6%.
business, together with the 250m of capital which we announced in February would be invested in establishing New underlying diluted earnings per share increased our operations in the United States.
Return on capital employed ROCE In January 2004, we Dividend The Board has proposed a final dividend of 6.10p said that we had an aspiration to increase our 2002 03 post tax per share last year 5.27p.
This represents an increase of ROCE of 10.2% by up to 200 basis points over five years on 15.7% and brings the full year dividend per share to 8.63p, then current plans.
The excellent progress the business has up 14.2% on last year.
We have built dividend cover to made since then means that ROCE has exceeded our target comfortable levels and this increase in the final dividend is of 12.2% this year two years early.
in line with earnings per share growth.
We also intend to grow future dividends broadly in line with underlying earnings per On an equivalent pre-IFRS basis, ROCE increased by 260 share, instead of building dividend cover whilst delivering basis points to 12.8% in just three years.
This represents an strong dividend growth, which has been our dividend policy increase of almost 70% over just three years in the economic for the last three years.
profit made by the business the extent to which return on capital exceeds the estimated weighted cost of capital for The final dividend will be paid on 14 July 2006 to shareholders the Group.
Operational improvement in the business has on the Register of Members at the close of business on 5 May delivered almost three-quarters of this increase in returns 2006.
Shareholders will continue to have the right to receive the and the balance reflects the benefits of our property funding dividend in the form of fully paid ordinary shares instead of cash.
initiatives with Topland and Consensus.
The first day of dealing in the new shares will be 14 July 2006.
We remain committed to delivering rising returns for Cash flow and Balance Sheet The Group generated net cash shareholders and to demonstrate this we have decided to set of 165m during the year, benefiting from strong cash flow a new ROCE target for the Group.
We aim to improve ROCE by from operating activities of 3.4bn and the net proceeds of a further 200 basis points from a combination of operational 346m from our property joint venture with Consensus.
Within improvement and more efficient use of the property elements this, 239m of cash was released from working capital, which of our Balance Sheet.
All four parts of our strategy will was 199m lower than last year.
This was due mainly to a contribute to this improvement.
smaller rise in trade creditors than last year last years increase was exceptionally large and the change in the International Total shareholder return Total shareholder return TSR, year end reduced trade creditors, higher non-food stocks which is measured as the percentage change in the share linked to global sourcing and increased debtors resulting price, plus the dividend paid, has increased by 45.8% over from advance rent on new leasehold stores in Korea.
the last five years, compared to an increase in the average for FTSE 100 companies of 16.3%.
Over the last three years, Net borrowings, at 4.5bn at year end, were higher than last Tescos TSR has grown 126.0% compared with the FTSE 100 year, primarily due to IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Excluding the impact average of 80.0%.
During the last year, the return for Tesco of IAS 32 and IAS 39, net debt was broadly unchanged at was 11.5% compared with the FTSE 100 average of 21.0%, 3.9bn.
which was buoyed by the strong performance of oil, gas Group capital expenditure during the year excluding and mining stocks.
This included 0.1bn of capital spent during the extra trading weeks in early 2006 for International.
UK capital expenditure was 1.8bn last year 1.7bn, including 760m on new stores and 404m on extensions and refits.
Total International capital expenditure rose to 1.0bn last year 0.7bn reflecting the extra trading weeks, plus our enlarged new store opening programme and comprising 0.4bn in Asia and 0.6bn in Europe.
4 Tesco plc 4 4 Our customers Since 1992 in South Korea Computers for can now take Schools have given advantage of our out over 100m financial services.
worth of computers and IT equipment.
Property funding and conserving equity Pensions We have sought freehold tenure for most of our new selling The provision of Tescos award-winning UK defined benefit space in recent years because leased developments have in pension scheme for our staff remains an important priority.
It the past tended to give disproportionate rewards to landlords, goes to the heart of our values and helps us attract and retain making it hard to remodel or expand stores.
As a result, the best people.
During the year, the Trustee board completed freehold properties now represent significantly more of our its three-yearly valuation of the pension fund.
In March 2005, property assets around 85% of book value compared with it had a small deficit of 153m in a scheme which now has historic levels of around 70%.
A strength of our Balance Sheet over 3bn of assets.
As at February 2006, the scheme was is this asset-backing: the net book value of our fixed assets is estimated to be fully funded, largely as a result of improved 15.9bn, most of it in freehold property valued at historic cost.
In recognition of the increasing cost of pensions we have recently increased both the Company and These appreciating freehold assets, whose market value we member contributions.
estimate to be around 50% higher than book value, provide us with the platform we require as retailers to expand and develop It is a young scheme.
With around 150,000 employed our stores for customers and they also represent an important members but only about 15,000 pensioners, the scheme has store of value for our shareholders.
Through capital expenditure many years to ensure that the type of assets held match its we are currently adding some 2bn of new freehold assets a year.
The funds strategy is to invest in 50% equities, 20% bonds, 10% property and 20% alternative asset classes, Over the last two years, through our joint ventures with including private equity and commodities.
It offers the Topland, Consensus and Morley, Tesco has developed an prospect, over time, of returns that should make the scheme updated version of our property joint ventures.
These provide more cost efficient for the members and the business.
In 2005, us with the right platform to run our stores.
At the same time, the schemes assets appreciated by around 20%.
they have enabled us to fund our growth efficiently by releasing cash from our freehold property base, create a stream of IFRSs require that we value pension scheme liabilities using a material property profits and enhance returns.
high quality corporate bond yield, and calculate the operating charge in the Income Statement as if invested purely in bonds.
Looking forward, we plan to release more cash from property This has proven to be an extremely volatile measure.
During a in the same way, through a sequence of similar joint venture two-week period in January 2006, for example, bond yields fell deals, both in the UK and internationally.
We intend to by 20 basis points, increasing our IAS 19 Employee benefits maintain an overall asset mix of over 70% freehold.
The total liability by 200m before tax.
At February 2006, the IAS 19 scale of this sale and leaseback programme in terms of cash pension deficit was around 850m on a post-tax basis.
Mainly proceeds over the next five years is expected to be up to 5bn.
as a consequence of bond yields falling by 0.6% during At least 1.5bn of these proceeds will be used to buy Tesco 2005 06 as a whole, our IFRS pensions charge for next year shares in the market, initially to offset future dilution to could increase by approximately 130m.
earnings per share caused by scrip dividend and share option We will, of course, produce our accounts in full compliance with issuance.
The balance will mainly be used to fund the growth IFRSs.
However, we intend to include in our new underlying of the business.
profit number, the normal cash cost of funding the pension to reflect how the fund is actually managed and funded.
Tesco plc 5 5 4 4 Internationally we have This year we opened substantial, successful, a 161,000 sq ft local businesses, such state-of-the-art as our Hymall joint fresh food depot venture in China.
Operating and financial review continued Key Performance Indicators KPIs We operate a balanced scorecard approach that is known internally within the Group as our Steering Wheel.
This unites the Groups resources around our customers, people, operations, finance and, for the first time in 2006, the community.
This enables the business to be operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
Some of the KPIs below are tracked through our Steering Wheel and others are tracked as a monitor of investor return.
2006 2005 Sales growth Change in Group sales over the year including value added tax 13.2% 12.4% UK sales growth 10.7% 11.9% International sales growth 23.0% 13.1% International sales growth at constant exchange rates 15.5% 18.3% Profit before tax 2,210m 1,894m New underlying profit before tax 2,251m 1,925m Operating margin UK pre-property operating margin 5.7% 5.7% International pre-property operating margin 5.7% 5.5% Operating margin is calculated from the operating profit expressed as a percentage of Group revenue sales excluding value added tax.
It is a measure of profit generation from sales and is a comparable performance measure with other companies.
This is how much we made from trade in our stores, taking account of the cost of the products sold, wages and salaries, expenses associated with running the stores, depots and head office, and the cost of depreciation of the assets used to generate the profits.
# Net cash inflow 165m 24m Net cash inflow is the cash received less cash spent during the financial period, after financing activities.
# Capital expenditure 2.8bn 2.4bn This is the cash invested in purchasing fixed assets.
UK 1.8bn 1.7bn International 1.0bn 0.7bn # Net borrowings and gearing Net borrowings 4.5bn 3.9bn Gearing 48% 43% Return on Capital Employed ROCE 12.6% 11.5% ROCE is calculated as profit before interest less tax divided by the average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for sale.
ROCE is a relative profit measurement that not only incorporates the funds shareholders have invested, but also funds invested by banks and other lenders, and therefore shows the productivity of the assets of the Group.
New underlying diluted earnings per share 20.06p 17.58p New underlying diluted earnings per share is the calculation of profit after tax and minority interest divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
It is the amount which could be paid out on each share if the Company decided to distribute all its profits as dividends instead of retaining some for future expansion.
52-week comparison basis except where stated and excluding discontinuing operation.
# 60-week basis and excluding discontinuing operation.
Excluding the first time adoption impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39, net borrowings were broadly unchanged.
6 Tesco plc 3 4 Our Value range is Antalya, Turkey proving very popular We have introduced with customers across Every day low price our International into our stores network.
2006 2005 Total shareholder return 45.8% 108.7% Total shareholder return is the notional return from a share and is measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus the dividend paid.
This is measured over the last five years.
Full year dividend per share 8.63p 7.56p The growth of the dividend per share from one period to the next is important to shareholders since this represents their actual cash return, and is usually paid twice a year.
We monitor a wide range of KPIs, both financial and non-financial.
Across the Group, KPIs are set locally, with oversight from the Executive Directors, to ensure they are tailored to drive the priorities of each business.
Each business operates a Steering Wheel, our balanced scorecard.
This year we have rolled-out our Corporate Responsibility management system to our International operations.
Each business reports quarterly on social, ethical and environmental matters alongside their Customer, Operations, Finance and People KPIs.
More detail on each country follows in the Operations, resources and relationships section.
The following are some KPIs for the UK operations which represent 75.7% of the Groups sales.
2006 2005 UK market share Grocery market share 20.2% 19.2% Non-food market share 7.0% 6.5% This is measured as the share of all spend by all shoppers through Taylor Nelson Sofres Superpanel Total Till Roll data.
Supplier viewpoint measure 94% 90% We aim to monitor supplier relations through the Supplier Viewpoint Survey.
The target is for over 90% of suppliers to view Tesco as being trustworthy, reliable, consistent, clear, helpful and fair.
Employee retention 83% 81% This measure shows the percentage of employees who have stayed with the business for longer than one year.
It is one measure that we use to monitor employee loyalty and satisfaction and we aim to exceed 80% retention of experienced staff.
Energy consumption 5.5% 3.9% For 2005 06 our target was to reduce energy consumption by 5% 2004 05 3.6%.
Tesco plc 7 7 3 4 Our Tescodiets We sold 100,000 programme helps cashmere jumpers in customers to plan just two weeks.
flexible healthy meals each week.
Operating and financial review continued Operations, resources and relationships At the end of February, our International operations were trading from 814 stores, including 341 hypermarkets, with a We have continued to make good progress with all four parts total of 32.8m sq ft of selling space.
Almost 56% of Group of our strategy: sales area is now in International.
Excluding the Edeka stores, maintain a strong core UK business we plan to open 396 new stores in the current year, adding become a successful international retailer 6.6m sq ft of selling area.
be as strong in non-food as in food The deal we announced in September to swap our store develop retailing services assets in Taiwan, plus cash, for Carrefours hypermarkets in the Czech Republic and Slovakia has been given clearance by We have done this by keeping our focus on trying to improve the competition authorities in Taiwan and the Czech Republic.
We try to make their shopping A decision in Slovakia is expected soon and, assuming the experience as easy as possible, lower prices where we can to combination of the four Carrefour stores with Tescos existing help them spend less, give them more choice about how they network is permitted, we anticipate that the deal will be shop in small stores, large stores or on-line, and seek to bring completed during the current year.
simplicity and value to sometimes complicated markets.
Multi-format capability is developing well across our International Our International businesses delivered a solid International network.
With our large destination stores now performance this year, despite challenging economic and established and with first class supply chain infrastructure in competitive conditions in some markets.
With rising customer place or planned for most of our main markets, a growing numbers, good sales growth, growing local scale, increasing part of our new space is coming through our smaller formats, store maturity and the benefits of central distribution, such as compact hypermarkets, discount supermarkets and performance and returns from our International operations convenience stores.
Smaller formats serve the needs of are continuing to strengthen.
customers in smaller catchment areas and they also cost less to International returns are continuing to rise.
For example, we now have Express stores in six countries currency basis, cash return on investment CROI for outside the UK, with 139 stores in Thailand alone, and discount International has increased to 11.4%, despite a high level supermarkets in seven countries, including openings in the of immature capital.
Like-for-like CROI in our four largest Czech Republic, Malaysia and Thailand.
Of the 419 stores International businesses Thailand, Korea, Republic of Ireland planned to open outside the UK this year including the Edeka and Hungary where over 60% of our International capital is stores, 338 will be in smaller formats.
invested, is running at an average of 16%.
This demonstrates We have now established a strong local team which has that our International model is not only delivering good growth begun to accelerate our expansion programme in China but also developing good returns as we build strong market beyond the Yangtse delta and manage the transfer of Tesco positions and our stores mature.
know-how and systems into the business.
Hymall now A total of 238 stores, with 5.4m sq ft of selling area, were trades from a portfolio of 39 hypermarkets with 12 more opened during the year, including 72 hypermarkets.
In Asia we planned in the current year.
The first store in Guangzhou opened 3.1m sq ft of space and in Rest of Europe 2.3m sq ft. has opened, the first in Beijing opens this Autumn and In Central Europe, we opened more new space than we did in sites have been secured in Shenzhen.
Hymalls sales have the UK.
These numbers included the acquisition of 12 stores in continued to grow strongly and the business made a small Korea from Aram-Mart, nine from Julius Meinl in Poland and profit after tax and interest, of which our share was 2m.
eight Tanekin stores in Japan.
27 small stores were acquired from Edeka in the Czech Republic after the year end.
Cash return on investment CROI is measured as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, expressed as a percentage of net invested capital.
com service We have introduced now has over 750,000 Would I buy it?
training to staff in Poland to ensure all of our products are of the best quality.
In Japan, it was a challenging year.
Sales grew but profits contributed.
Customer numbers are up significantly and this is reduced, mainly as a result of the cost of integrating the driving large market share gains.
remaining Frec stores in the first half and the eight Tanekin In the Czech Republic, the business has delivered strong units acquired in Tokyo in October.
The first trial Express sales and profit growth despite very competitive market format store opened three weeks ago.
We have also accelerated our new store In Korea, Homeplus has continued to make very pleasing development, adding 20% to our sales area during the progress, delivering increased sales, including strong likeyear, with ten openings, including eight compact for-like, and excellent profit growth.
During the year, we hypermarkets, and one of our new 1K supermarket format increased our selling space by 29% by opening eight new 1,000 sq m stores.
hypermarkets, including our first three compact hypers, and The more challenging economic and retail environment completing the conversion of the 12 stores we acquired in has held back our growth in Hungary but we have still March 2005 from Aram-Mart.
We are also now rolling out made solid progress.
We have strengthened our marketthe Express convenience format and we have 11 such leading position by lowering prices, expanding our store stores trading.
Our organic store development programme network and developing our infrastructure.
We opened is accelerating as planned, with a further 47 stores planned 18 new stores in the year, adding 22% to our total space, this year.
including our first 30,000 sq ft compact hypermarket.
In Malaysia, we moved close to break-even and we are A further 30 stores, representing a further 880,000 sq ft making positive cash returns, helped by very strong sales of new space, are planned for this year.
growth, both from new space and from our existing stores.
In Poland, the economic background is looking better We have a good pipeline of new space to enable us to and signs of renewed consumer confidence, combined build a strong position.
We opened seven new stores in the with an improving offer in our stores, have been reflected year, including our first Express store at Selayang, Selangor.
We have made good Given the uncertainties arising from the announcement of progress with the development of our 1K, 2K and 3K store the asset swap deal with Carrefour last September, it has formats, with the early units trading well, giving us access been a challenging few months for the business in Taiwan.
to a broader range of store development opportunities.
Sales grew strongly and although losses increased, the In the Republic of Ireland, we have achieved strong team has held the performance of the business together growth in sales and, on a pre-IFRS basis, profit as well.
remarkably well in difficult circumstances.
Under IFRSs, operating profit growth was impacted due to In Thailand, we have had another excellent year, with the inclusion of a significant property profit in the prior year growth in sales, profit and returns.
Sales growth has benefited from strong like-for-like development of new formats continues and we now have performance and an acceleration in the growth of our 219 stores trading across four formats, including 139 space.
We opened six new stores with 111,000 sq ft of new Express stores, 14 Value stores and ten new supermarkets.
sales area during the year, with a further eight new stores All the newer formats are continuing to perform well, planned this year.
giving us many more opportunities to develop our national Our business in Slovakia has delivered another very strong store network.
performance, with sales and profits significantly up on last In Central Europe, our strategic investments in lower prices, year.
Our new store programme is now supported by the higher product quality and faster development of new space growth of our compact hypermarket format.
We now have have contributed to strong sales and profit growth across 18 such stores, with five more planned this year.
Successful regional initiatives to strengthen our central distribution depot at Beckov, measuring 500,000 sq business from joint purchasing of own-brand products to ft, is fully operational and delivering significant benefits in the introduction of a Cherokee clothing range have also lower costs and better product quality.
Tesco plc 9 4 3 Our Value and In 2005, we sold five Finest ranges million Value glasses.
enable customers An average of one in to shop within four families bought their budgets.
Operating and financial review continued In Turkey, Kipa delivered a very strong performance.
Sales for staff and cheaper for Tesco.
Most of these savings are rose strongly and profit doubled.
We now have eight reinvested to improve our offer for customers.
This year, we hypermarkets, including three trading very successfully have made particularly good progress with our efforts to control outside Izmir, with eight more planned for the current year.
Other examples include: The introduction into Kipa of a new suite of IT systems We have introduced mobile display units for pre-packed called Tesco in a Box to run many key functions in the bread into 400 stores, with a further 300 planned in the business, including supply chain and replenishment, went first half of this year.
Bread is now presented better for live last year and this implementation has been the model customers, availability has improved and the replenishment for subsequent roll-out to Japan and China.
of stock is quicker and easier for staff.
Core UK Business UK sales grew by 10.7% in the year, New ways of managing stock in stores to increase the including a like-for-like increase of 7.5%.
Growth in customer availability of products for customers, involving scanning numbers was the main driver of our sales.
Customer spend per gaps using hand-held computers on a regular cycle, has visit excluding Express also rose in the year despite deflation significantly reduced out-of-stocks and also reduced costs.
We have made further good progress with the development of We have continued to invest in the things that matter for new space and store formats.
A total of 2.0m sq ft of new sales customers: area was opened during the year in all formats, of which over We have strengthened again our position as the UKs best 660,000 sq ft was in extensions to existing stores.
With Extra value retailer by investing in lower prices for our customers, and Express being our least mature formats and with both with price deflation of 1.8% during the year excluding petrol.
now delivering above-average investment returns, these are important drivers of our growth.
Going forward, we are On-shelf availability has also improved again and is now at aiming to maintain our rate of growth in selling area, from its highest ever level.
Our measure of this, which is based a combination of extensions, principally for non-food, and on our in-store picking of tesco.
com orders, shows that new stores.
availability improved by a full percentage point compared with last year.
During the year, we opened another 18 Extra hypermarkets, most of them through extensions to existing stores, bringing New technology has helped our one-in-front checkout the total to 118.
Extra now represents 31% of our total sales queue performance to improve so that many more area.
The trading performance of the large Extra stores we customers wait a shorter time to be served.
A total of 1.5m opened in 2005 in Bar Hill, near Cambridge: Talbot Green, customers a week, in more than 200 stores, now regularly Mid-Glamorgan and Slough in Berkshire, all of which have choose to use our self-scan checkouts.
more than 100,000 sq ft of sales area, has been significantly At the same time, customers are recognising that they can ahead of expectations.
also shop more easily and comfortably in clearer aisles as More customers have access to our Express convenience stores we introduce more shelf-ready packaging to speed as we bring the Tesco offer and lower prices to neighbourhoods.
115 new Express stores opened during the year, bringing the Weve added 200 new Finest lines this year, over 100 new overall total to over 650.
A further 130 new Expresses are Healthy Living products, including a Kids Healthy range, planned for 2006 07, as we focus on organic expansion.
nearly 100 Wholefoods natural snack and cupboard lines On 6 April, we submitted a response to the Office of Fair as well as hundreds more standard own-brand and Value Trading on its proposal to refer the grocery sector to the items.
If an inquiry goes ahead, we believe Record efficiency savings of 330m were delivered this year the Commission will find that competition in our industry works by our Step-Change programme, which brings together many well and continues to deliver value, innovation and convenience initiatives to make what we do better for customers, simpler to consumers.
10 Tesco plc 3 4 30,000 members Since the launch of of Tesco Sports Computers for for Schools and Schools in 1992 Clubs the biggest we have given over initiative of its kind.
100 million worth of equipment to schools.
Non-food Against the background of subdued consumer leveraging existing assets either our own or a partners so spending in the UK, our non-food offer has again made very that we can simultaneously price our services competitively for good progress.
Sales growth, in the UK alone, was over 13% customers and also achieve high returns for shareholders.
during the year with total non-food sales increasing to 6.8bn tesco.
com sales continued to grow strongly up by 31.9% last year 6.0bn.
Volume growth was again even higher, in the year to almost 1bn.
Profit also increased by 54.9% driven by our ability to pass on lower prices to customers, to 56.2m.
The business now has over 750,000 regular funded by our growing scale and supply chain efficiency, customers, more than 200,000 orders a week and including more direct sourcing from Asia.
represents over 3% of UK sales.
For parts of the country UK consumers have been more cautious in their shopping where Tesco has few stores or where those we have are behaviour for many months but they remain willing to spend exceptionally busy, we have developed a tesco.
com-only on our competitively priced, good quality and well-presented store.
The first opened in Croydon, South London in merchandise.
As a result, we have seen strong growth in most February.
Only a few locations are likely to be appropriate large non-food categories, including product groups which for this format.
have seen flat or reduced overall consumer spending.
In Telecoms, we are a product retailer and also an operator Our established categories, which benefit less from new space, providing telecoms services to our customers.
In both we grew strongly, with health and beauty sales increasing by 10% now have a very competitive offer from pay-as-you-go and stationery, news and magazines by 17%.
Clothing sales mobiles to home phones and we already serve over grew well in a difficult market up by 16% and we saw 1.5 million customers.
Telecoms introduced many new strong market share gains by volume and value.
Some product services during the year, which are now available in 350 groups, to which we have been able to allocate more space stores, including a range of pay-monthly mobiles on-line in our larger Extra stores, did particularly well.
For example, and Tesco internet phone.
We opened our first dedicated consumer electronics sales were up 34%, sports goods 31% Telecoms centre inside our Slough Extra during the year.
Tesco Personal Finance TPF has delivered a good With only just over a quarter of UK households currently able to performance in a difficult financial services market.
On a get to an Extra store easily, we are looking at ways to improve pre-IFRS basis, total operating profit increased slightly to access for our customers to our non-food offer: 205m, of which our share is 103m.
Net of interest and tax, and the other reporting changes required by IFRSs, On-line Following the success of tesco.
com and our inprofit reduced to 139m last year 142m of which our store non-food offer, we are continuing to investigate share is 70m.
After a flat first half, in which market whether we could build a substantial on-line non-food conditions in two of TPFs core markets credit cards and business.
motor insurance were challenging, TPF saw a stronger Homeplus The performance of our first Homeplus trial second half performance.
TPF is providing excellent and non-food only store, which opened last October in Denton, growing returns in only its eighth year of operation.
Over Manchester, has encouraged us to extend the trial.
Further the last two years, a total of 86m of surplus capital, trial stores will open shortly in Bristol, Southampton and representing over 37% of the original investment in the Telford.
These stores, which will trade from more than joint venture, has been returned to Tesco through two cash 30,000 sq ft sales area, will stock a wide range of non-food, dividend payments.
This has reduced Tescos net investment similar to the assortment offered in our Extra hypermarkets.
TPF now have over 5m Retailing services Our efforts to bring simplicity and value to customer accounts, of which 1.8m are credit cards and sometimes complicated markets are behind the success of our 1.4m are motor insurance policies.
Customer numbers retailing services businesses.
Also underpinning this element are up over 200,000 on last year.
of our strategy is a strong economic model, based around Tesco plc 11 4 We now stock a range of 17 different LCD and plasma TVs from the leading brands.
Operating and financial review continued Resources and relationships workers who produce the goods we sell.
So we take a partnership approach to working with suppliers sharing our Customers Our customers have told us what they want from knowledge and listening to suppliers feedback.
This includes an Every little helps shopping trip and this year 12,000 of providing technical expertise, advice and insight into customer them attended our Customer Question Time to offer ideas on trends and making regular payment, on time.
Clubcard also helps us to understand what our customers want, whilst allowing us to thank them We are one of four signatories to the UK Governments for shopping with us this year we gave away over 320m statutory Supermarkets Code of Practice.
Since the Codes in Clubcard vouchers.
introduction we have run tailored training for all Tesco buyers to promote understanding and compliance.
If problems do We dont always get it right but we try to make their shopping arise in supplier relationships we aim to air and resolve them trip as easy as possible, reduce prices where we can to help them through constructive discussion.
To aid this process we spend less and give them the convenience of shopping when appointed a Code Compliance Officer to hear formal and where they want in small stores, large stores or on-line.
complaints, confidentially if requested, and we hope that our Employees With over 389,000 staff in 12 countries, we play annual Supplier Viewpoint Survey encourages suppliers to an important role in creating employment, fostering skills give us more feedback on our relationships.
Our target is for and generating economic development.
feedback to show that at least 90% of our suppliers view Tesco Our people are our most important asset.
Looking after our as being trustworthy, reliable, consistent, clear, helpful and fair.
staff so that they can look after our customers is one of the We carry out ethical audits and target ourselves to cover 100% core values of the business.
We are committed to providing of our high risk own brand suppliers and ensure all commercial market-leading working conditions for our staff and we teams have received training on supply chain labour standards.
encourage our suppliers to do the same.
Corporate responsibility As a responsible Company, Tesco In the UK, we offer our staff a market-leading package of pay works hard to bring real benefits to the communities we and benefits.
serve, the environment and the economy.
This is recognised Employee Share Schemes Over 165,000 of our people have a through our inclusion in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones personal stake in Tesco.
Our Shares in Success and Save as You Sustainability indices.
Earn schemes resulted in our people receiving benefits of Our fundraising efforts have again delivered great results.
year we contribute the equivalent of at least 1% of our pre-tax Training and Development We are committed to developing profits to charities and good causes and a total of 41m was our people to bring out the best in everyone and do what we given during 2005 06 in donations, staff time and gifts in kind.
can to enable all our people to reach their potential.
All our Our Charity of the Year was Age Concern, for which staff and staff have access to training programmes and personal customers raised 2m.
development planning to ensure that they have the right Environment We are committed to playing our part in tackling skills to do their job.
climate change by reducing our energy use and emissions from Diversity We try to ensure that at all times and in every our distribution fleet.
In 2005 06, we reduced our energy use aspect of employment, including recruitment, training, per square foot by 15% which has saved 59,000 tonnes of and development, everyone receives the same treatment, carbon dioxide emissions.
regardless of factors such as gender, age, colour, creed, race, Against a baseline of 2000, we want to cut the average energy ethnic origin, disability, marital status, religion or belief, trade use in our buildings KwH sq ft in half by 2010, delivering a union membership or sexual preference and orientation.
huge reduction in carbon emissions.
We built our first model Suppliers To be a successful, sustainable business we have energy efficient store in Diss, UK, in 2005.
The store uses 20% to ensure that our drive to bring cheaper prices is achieved less energy than comparable stores by using clear roof sections without compromising our standards, reducing quality, to maximise natural light, wind turbines power the tills and cold damaging the environment or harming the suppliers and 12 Tesco plc 3 3 4 Huge on quality and We aim to offer One in ten women low on price, our new our customers in the UK buy Naturally Good Food the convenience Tesco makeup.
range marks the new of either large age of the ready meal.
air from chilled areas is re-used for air conditioning.
Our second Risks and uncertainties model energy efficient store has now opened in Swansea.
Risk is an accepted part of doing business.
The real challenge Our investments will also include further recycling initiatives to for any business is to identify the principal risks and to develop make recycling easy and attractive for customers.
In 2005, we and monitor appropriate controls.
A successful risk recycled 71% of all store waste, saving nearly 27,000 tonnes management process balances risks and rewards and relies from landfill.
We invested over 600,000 in new automated on a sound judgement of their likelihood and consequence.
recycling machines for customers at our stores in Winchester, The Tesco Board has overall responsibility for risk management Havant, Portsmouth, Southampton, Andover and Royston and and internal control within the context of achieving the Groups we plan to install these at many more stores.
Our process for identifying and managing risks is set will enable us to double the amount our customers bring for out in more detail on page 22 of the Corporate Governance recycling and this additional material would account for around Statement in this Annual Report.
The key risks and mitigating 10% of the total additional tonnage needed to meet the UKs factors are set out below.
EU packaging recycling targets by 2008. Business strategy If our strategy follows the wrong direction We have set up a 100m fund within our business to be used or is not efficiently communicated then the business may suffer.
for innovation in sustainable environmental technology.
We We need to understand and properly manage strategic risk in will be installing wind turbines at some of our new stores, order to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all our alongside solar energy technology, geothermal power, stakeholders.
Our strategy is based on a four-part strategy: combined heat and power and trigeneration.
We will also be to grow the core UK business, to become a successful trialling gasification, a revolutionary technology to turn waste international retailer, to be as strong in non-food as in food into clean, sustainable power.
and to develop retailing services.
Pursuit of this four-part Community We continue to play an active role in regeneration, strategy has allowed the business to diversify.
At a strategic encouraging inward investment and creating rewarding jobs level diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets and careers in our most deprived areas.
Over the last seven has the effect of reducing overall risk by avoiding reliance on years we have completed 14 Regeneration Partnership a small number of business areas.
However, by its very nature, Schemes creating 3,500 jobs and helping 2,200 long-term diversification also introduces new risks to be managed in unemployed people back into work.
In 2005 06 we completed areas of the business that are less mature and fully understood.
two such schemes in Manchester and Leicester.
To attract and To ensure the Group continues to pursue the right strategy, retain the best workforce we offer training and development to these aspects are reviewed on a continuous basis.
We also help people achieve their full potential.
In 2004, we launched have structured programmes for engaging with all our our Apprenticeship in Retail scheme with just 16 staff taking stakeholders including customers, employees, investors, part from three stores, this year 445 general assistants from 92 suppliers, government, the media and non-governmental stores will attain their apprenticeships and GCSE equivalent organisations.
We also invest significant resources in ensuring qualifications in English and Maths.
our strategy is communicated well and understood by the People tell us they want us to use our size and reach to be parties who are key to delivering it.
The business utilises a a force for good in society.
To help us meet this challenge Steering Wheel approach in all our countries and significant we have decided that from 2006 we will operate a new business units, such as tesco.
com, to help manage performance Community Plan.
This will be part of our Steering Wheel, and deliver business strategy.
setting out objectives that the business will deliver.
It will Financial strategy and Group treasury risk The main ensure we provide the right resources, energy and focus to financial risks of the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet the expectations of our customers and other stakeholders meet business needs, the risk of default by counter-parties to in this area.
The key objectives are: financial transactions, and fluctuations in interest and foreign to be a good neighbour: and exchange rates.
to be responsible, fair and honest The Treasury function is mandated by the Board to manage in the way we do business.
the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business Tesco plc 13 4 4 In 2005, we launched Book sales on-line over 300 new lines in were over 4.5m the Tesco brand range last year.
Operating and financial review continued needs.
The function has clear policies and operating succession planning to ensure that the needs of the business parameters, and its activities are routinely reviewed and going forward are considered and provided for.
The function does not operate as a profit centre and We have a well-established partnership with the Union of Shop the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Distributive and Allied Workers USDAW in the UK and build Operational threats and performance risk in UK business relationships with trade unions in our International operations.
The UK operation still constitutes a substantial part of the There are clear processes for understanding and responding Groups profit generation so under-performance in the UK to employees needs through our People Management Group, is a bigger risk than elsewhere.
Like all retail businesses our staff surveys, regular performance reviews and regular business is susceptible to economic downturn that could affect communication of business developments.
Reputational risk As the largest retailer in the UK, We aim to deliver what customers want better than our expectations of the Group are high.
Failure to protect the competitors by understanding and responding to their Groups reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust and behaviour.
All of our business units have stretching targets confidence.
This could result in a decline in the customer base based on the Steering Wheel and the performance of all and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
business units is monitored continually and reported monthly Like other companies we must consider potential threats to to the Board.
our reputation and the consequences of reputational damage.
Our aim is to ensure an excellent understanding of customer Emotional loyalty to the Tesco brand has helped us diversify behaviour through our customer insight team.
This helps us into new areas like retail services and non-food and we have broad appeal to all customers in our different markets, recognise the commercial imperative to do the right thing minimising the impact of changes to the economic climate.
for all our stakeholders and avoid the loss of such loyalty.
Competition The retail industry is highly competitive.
The We monitor this through independent surveys and our Group competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes, community schemes such as Computers for Schools and and faces increased competition from UK retailers as well as Charity of the Year contribute to society more broadly.
The Tesco international operators, here and overseas.
Failure to compete Values are embedded in the way we do business at every level with competitors on areas including price, product range, and our Code of Ethics guides our behaviour in our dealings quality and service could have an adverse effect on the Groups with customers, employees and suppliers.
We engage with financial results.
stakeholders in every sphere to take into account their views and we try to ensure our strategy reflects them.
We have high We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and store format level committees including the Corporate Responsibility in a way that allows us to compete in different markets.
We Committee and Compliance Committee to help guide and track performance against a range of measures that customers monitor our policies.
tell us are critical to their shopping trip experience.
We constantly monitor customer perceptions of ourselves and our Environmental risks We develop environmental policy competitors to ensure we can respond quickly if we need to.
through engaging with key stakeholders and experts in this field to achieve sustainable growth, minimise our People capabilities Our greatest asset is our employees.
It is environmental impacts and be a good neighbour.
Policy critical to our success to attract, retain and motivate the best is reviewed regularly by the Compliance Committee and people with the right capabilities at all levels of operations.
We recognise the We consider our people policies regularly and are committed opportunities for both environmental improvement and to investing in training and development and incentives for our competitive advantage through energy savings and store people such as profit-sharing.
Our Talent Planning process design, transportation efficiency, waste management and helps individuals achieve their full potential.
We also carry out recycling.
We look for continuous improvement through 14 Tesco plc 3 4 In South Korea We offer 130 chart we launched DVDs in-store with a the MeliMelo full range of 32,000 childrens on-line.
innovations and better ways to help customers act responsibly Internal Audit department undertakes detailed investigations towards the environment.
into all areas of the business and highlights to the Audit Committee its findings.
The Compliance Committee Product safety The safety and quality of our products is formulates and monitors the implementation of, and of paramount importance to Tesco as well as being essential compliance with, appropriate policies on key areas of ethical for maintaining customer trust and confidence.
A breach in behaviour, including fraud.
confidence could affect the size of our customer base and hence our financial results.
IT systems and infrastructure The business is dependent on efficient Information Technology IT systems.
Any significant Tesco has detailed and established procedures for ensuring failure in the IT processes of our retail operations e. g. barcode product integrity at all times, especially for our own label scanning or supply chain logistics would impact our ability to products.
There are strict product safety processes and regular trade.
We recognise the essential role that IT plays across the management reports.
We work in partnership with suppliers to Group in allowing us to trade efficiently and that we can also ensure mutual understanding of the standards required.
The achieve commercial advantage through implementing IT business also monitors developments in areas such as health, innovations that improve the shopping trip for customers and safety and nutrition in order to respond appropriately to make life easier for employees.
We have extensive controls changing customer trends and new legislation.
We have clear in place to maintain the integrity and efficiency of our IT processes for crisis management, pulling together expert infrastructure and we share world-class systems across our teams should we need to respond quickly on issues.
International operations to ensure consistency of delivery.
Ethical risks in the supply chain We do business with a large Regulatory and political environment We are subject to a number of own-brand suppliers in over 90 countries and the wide variety of regulations in the different countries in which we supply chain is made of complex relationships from individual operate because of the diverse nature of our business.
Tesco is farmers and growers through to processors, manufacturers and subject to regulatory changes in key areas such as changes in distributors.
There is a risk that any part of the supply chain planning laws, trading hours and tax rules and to scrutiny by the might not adhere with the Groups high ethical standards, competition authorities.
We consider these uncertainties in the which are set out on our website.
external environment when developing strategy and reviewing To minimise this risk we have a partnership approach to performance.
We remain vigilant to future changes in the UK and working with suppliers, providing a certain and growing market abroad.
As part of our day-to-day operations we engage with for their products, regular payments and payments on time, governmental and non-governmental organisations to ensure the and our commitment to sharing our understanding of views of our customers and employees are represented and try to customers and changing consumer behaviour.
We also have anticipate and contribute to important changes in public policy.
a programme of risk assessment and internal and external Activism and terrorism A major incident or terrorist event auditing of suppliers on ethical issues to complement our incapacitating management, systems or stores could impact on compliance work on product safety, quality and capability.
the Groups ability to trade.
In addition to excellent contingency Fraud and compliance As the business grows in size and plans we have security systems and processes that reflect geographical spread, the risk of occurrence of fraudulent best practice.
behaviour of its employees increases.
While the vast majority Pension risks The Groups pension arrangements are an of our staff are completely honest, there remains the potential important part of our employees overall benefits package, for financial crimes at all levels of the business from shop-floor especially in the UK.
We see them as a strong contributor to senior management.
The Group takes extensive steps to to our ability to attract and retain good people, our Groups reduce this risk.
Accounting procedures at all levels are clearly greatest asset.
set out and audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud.
The Group gives clear guidance on behaviour to The Tesco PLC Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme employees through the Values and the Code of Ethics.
The with around 150,000 members and about 15,000 pensioners.
Tesco plc 15 3 4 We have launched We treat our a new Tesco Bonus suppliers the way credit card and we like to be treated Tesco Clubcard and make sure we credit card.
are fair, honest and responsible.
Operating and financial review continued During the year ended 25 February 2006, the Trustee board funding ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient was chaired by Mr R S Ager and comprised nine directors undrawn committed bank facilities, and a strong credit rating including the three nominated by members.
Management so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
of the assets is delegated to a number of independent fund The Groups long-term credit rating remained stable during the managers who have discretion to invest in Tesco PLC subject year.
Tesco Group is rated A1 by Moodys and A by Standard to certain restrictions.
New funding of 529m was arranged during the The Company has considered its pension risks and has taken year, including a net 484m from property joint ventures and action by increasing contributions and by the Trustee reducing 45m from medium-term notes MTNs.
We renewed our risk in its investment strategy.
The Group paid in a special 10bn MTN programme on 28 February 2006.
At the year end, contribution of 200m in February 2005 and, since the results net debt was 4.5bn last year 3.9bn and the average debt of the 2005 Trustees Valuation the valuation that is used to set maturity was six years last year eight years.
the contribution rate, details of which are included on page 5, Interest rate risk management The objective is to limit the rates of the Companys and employees contributions our exposure to increases in interest rates while retaining the have increased.
These increases recognise the higher cost of opportunity to benefit from interest rate reductions.
Forward providing pensions, partly as a result of the improvement in rate agreements, interest rate swaps, caps and collars are life expectancy.
used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Joint venture governance and partnerships As we continue The policy is to fix or cap a minimum of 40% of actual and to enter into new partnerships and grow existing joint ventures projected debt interest costs.
At the year end, 1.5bn of debt the risk inherent in managing these partnerships increases.
It is was in fixed rate form last year 2.6bn with a further 0.9bn more difficult to guarantee the achievement of joint goals and of debt capped or collared, therefore 53% 2005 87% we rely on partners reputations.
We choose partners with good of net debt is fixed, capped or collared.
Fixed rate debt reputations and set out joint goals and clear contractual includes 472m of funding linked to the Retail Price Index arrangements from the outset.
governance of our joint ventures and partnerships.
This debt reduces interest risk by diversifying our funding portfolio.
The remaining balance of our debt is in floating Financial review rate form.
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the The average rate of interest paid on a historic cost basis during availability of funds to meet business needs, the risk of default the year was 5.2% last year 5.4%.
by counter-parties to financial transactions, and fluctuations in Foreign currency risk management Our principal objective interest and foreign exchange rates.
These risks are managed is to reduce the effect of exchange rate volatility on short-term as described below.
The Balance Sheet position at 25 February profits.
Transactional currency exposures that could significantly 2006 is representative of the position throughout the year.
impact the Income Statement are hedged, typically using Funding and liquidity The Group finances its operations by forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies and currency a combination of retained profits, long and medium-term debt, options.
At the year end, forward foreign currency transactions capital market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and equivalent to 548m were outstanding 2005 479m as leases.
The objective is to ensure continuity of funding.
The detailed in note 20. policy is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to arrange 16 Tesco plc 3 4 We launched Tesco Customers can On-line Photo buy everything Centre last year, under one roof in available through our Extra stores.
com We hedge the majority of our investments in our international Insurance We purchased Assets, Earnings and Combined subsidiaries via foreign exchange transactions in matching Liability protection from the open insurance market at currencies.
Our objective is to maintain a low cost of borrowing catastrophe level only.
The risk not transferred to the insurance and hedge against material movements in our Balance Sheet market is retained within the business by using value.
During the year, currency movements increased the net our captive insurance companies, Tesco Insurance Limited value of the Groups overseas assets by 27m last year 19m.
in Guernsey and Valiant Insurance Company Limited in the We translate overseas profits at average exchange rates which Republic of Ireland.
Tesco Insurance Limited covers Assets we do not currently seek to hedge.
and Earnings, while Valiant Insurance Limited covers Combined Liability.
Credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising from default by parties to financial transactions across an Statement of compliance approved list of counterparties of high credit quality.
The Groups positions with these counterparties and their credit This review has been prepared in accordance with the ratings are routinely monitored.
Directors Report Business Review Requirements in section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985.
It also incorporates much Tesco Personal Finance TPF TPF lending is predominantly of the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards to individuals through its credit card and unsecured personal Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review.
TPF has also developed a significant insurance business, with motor insurance a major component.
TPF risk is The OFRs intent is to provide information to shareholders managed by observing and adopting industry best practices and should not be relied on by any other party or for any and drawing upon the expertise and systems of the Royal other purpose.
Bank of Scotland Group, including its subsidiary Direct Line.
Where this review contains forward-looking statements, All policies pertaining to risk within TPF are subject to the these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the governance procedures of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group information available to them at the time of their approval of and ratified by the TPF Board, which has representation from this report.
These statements should be treated with caution both Tesco and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
This has due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forwarddelivered a portfolio of products with strong asset quality.
asset quality is maintained through proactive risk management, both at the time of acquisition and ongoing account Other information maintenance.
Additional financial and non-financial information, including The Tesco Group would support its 50% share of any further press releases and year end presentations, can be accessed funding TPF might require to sustain liquidity ratios.
However, on our website, www.
com corporate and also in our we believe that provisions for bad debts and insurance losses Corporate Responsibility Review 2006. supported by re-insurance of significant risks are at prudent levels.
