Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review 110% 35.4m Operating cash performance Investment in 2006 Over the last five years, the Groups Ultra invested a total of 35.4m average cash conversion has been in acquisitions, R&D, capital 110%, reecting the high quality of expenditure and new business Ultras earnings development build rates, thereby driving demand for sales of original Ultra and its market environment equipment.
High aircraft utilisation driven by greater demand for Ultra Electronics is a group of specialist businesses offering a air travel as a result of growing populations with higher through-life product and service portfolio that includes systems, disposable incomes is also increasing after-market spares and sub-systems, products and components for defence, security, repair activity.
The relatively high price of oil is causing a shift in aerospace and transport applications.
Ultras products and services demand from turbo-jet regional aircraft to more fuel efficient are used on aircraft, ships, submarines, armoured vehicles, turbo-prop aircraft where Ultra has the opportunity to supply surveillance and communication systems, airports and transport cabin quietening systems.
The worldwide increase in air travel systems around the world.
encourages continuing investment in enhanced airport In Ultras main defence markets, budgets continue to rise.
There is infrastructure including IT systems.
a growing emphasis on electronic systems for military platforms to provide smart capability.
Increasingly funds are being spent on Ultras strategies for achieving the objective equipment for surveillance to provide improved military intelligence The Boards prime objective continues to be to outperform the and on battlespace IT systems to disseminate it in order to achieve market in terms of annual increases in shareholder value by delivering information superiority over opponents.
Systems that enable above average increases in earnings, and by communicating precision attack to minimise collateral damage are also being effectively with shareholders and the financial community generally.
procured and there is an increasing emphasis on the ability to Ultras strategies to achieve this objective are outlined in the Chief prosecute time-critical targets.
The continuing operations in Iraq Executives overview on pages 4 and 5 of this report.
Ultra believes and Afghanistan are providing opportunities in the UK and North that sustainable success is derived from a focus on positioning its America to provide equipment to satisfy urgent operational products and services on a broad range of major international requirements and to replace or refurbish worn-out equipment.
Such successful positioning is achieved the future fewer new platforms will be procured but existing by ensuring that Ultras offerings are differentiated from those of platforms will be upgraded with smarter capabilities through the the competition in a manner that the customer values.
Focus will integration of enhanced electronic solutions.
Ultra has pursued a be sustained on creating and maintaining this differentiation in the strategy that has positioned the Group to benefit from these trends future and on continuing to provide innovative solutions to satisfy and constantly seeks opportunities to offer innovative solutions to customer requirements.
With its North American and UK supply Ultras success is underpinned by its investment strategy.
Ultra has a bases and its proven ability to achieve technology transfer, Ultra can demonstrated expertise in identifying investment opportunities that also benefit from the increasing trend for national governments to deliver growth, either within existing businesses or by acquiring maintain sovereign operational independence for their armed forces businesses which complement and broaden the Groups portfolio of by offering in-country manufacture and through-life support services.
During 2006 Ultra invested a total of 35.4m The threat from international terrorism has increased the need for 2005: 61.2m in acquisitions, research & development, capital greater protection of economically important assets.
Homeland expenditure and new business development.
This investment both security spending is increasing on surveillance systems for contributed directly to the new contracts won in the year and also harbours, borders and coastlines and important civil infrastructure supports the Groups long-term positioning for future business.
Demand is also increasing for economic exclusion To ensure that this investment strategy remains affordable, Ultra zone enforcement capabilities such as offshore patrol vessels.
focuses on delivering a high quality of earnings from its operations.
In civil markets, aerospace remains healthy with both Airbus and Evidence of this quality is the consistently strong cash generation Boeing benefiting from large order backlogs and increasing their that the Group has achieved.
Over the last five years, the average see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review Ultra has introduced a range In Ultra has broadened the range of high-integrity hand-held of innovative pneumatic electronic control units that components and sub-systems are similar to games it provides for high-integrity controllers used by young defence and aerospace people worldwide.
Ultra innovative solutions are used, demonstrated successfully a however, to control the real novel design of gas cartridge thing remotely controlled that provides low-cost stored cannons mounted on energy for ejecting munitions vehicles, used to defend from aircraft bomb racks against insurgents new customers new technology new technology new platforms new markets conversion of operating profit to operating cash ow has been Group results 110%.
The cash generated from operations is then available to Revenue increased to 377.0m, a rise of 10% over the prior year fund acquisitions Ultra seeks to maintain a broad balance of which 8% was organic.
At constant currencies the organic between organic and acquisition growth.
To date, all of Ultras growth would have been 9%.
Operating margins increased to acquisitions have been funded by free cash ow and so the level of 15.3% compared to 14.9% in the previous year driven mainly by net debt has remained relatively low.
In 2006 only two small increased volumes, effective execution of development acquisitions were made due either to the poor quality of the programmes and a continuing focus on operational efficiencies.
available acquisition targets or the high EBIT multiples that were As a result operating profit grew by 13% to 57.5m 2005: being demanded for the better quality businesses on offer.
Net interest payable was 30% lower at 2.6m 2005: will not overpay for acquisitions and will only proceed to 3.7m due mainly to lower borrowings through the year, so that completion where there is a strong business case.
headline profit before tax increased by 16% to 54.9m 2005: 47.4m.
This was despite a 4.8m negative impact of weaker The Groups acquisition strategy is summarised as being the pursuit hedged exchange rates.
At constant currencies operating profit of bolt-on acquisitions that: growth was 22%.
are defence or aerospace based: are in a growth market sector: The effective tax rate for the Group increased slightly to 28.0% augment a current niche, or 2005: 27.7% reecting the fact that a larger proportion of Ultras add a new, related niche, or profits were generated in the US and Canada, where marginal tax widen Ultras geographic reach.
This resulted in earnings per share growth of 15% to 58.4p 2005: 50.7p.
The ideal size of acquisitions is currently about 30m to 60m and so organisation transforming acquisitions are unlikely.
The Operating cash ow was again excellent at 56.5m 2005: 53.8m.
Group will seek to maintain a robust portfolio of niche activities.
The conversion of operating profit to operating cash ow in the In short, the acquisition strategy that has served Ultra well to date year was 98%.
Over the last five years, the Groups average cash will be continued.
conversion has been 110%, reecting the high quality of Ultras earnings.
Net debt at the year-end was 7.2m 2005: 34.3m, Ultras 2006 results after funding an investment of 35.4m in the year.
Of this, a total Ultra once again made excellent progress in 2006, achieving strong of 7.8m after expenses was spent on acquisitions, with 27.6m growth in revenue and operating profit.
The Groups performance 2005: 24.6m spent on research and development, capital was helped by buoyant conditions in civil aerospace, development expenditure and new business development.
This 35.4m work on aircraft ice protection systems, together with strong growth investment of Ultras funds was supplemented by customer-funded in airport and battlespace IT and underwater systems.
In 2006, this amounted to 69.4m were made by the acquisitions completed in 2005 and the further 2005: 60.6m and so, in total, over 18% of Ultras activity was two acquisitions made in 2006 which strengthened Ultras positions new product and business development.
in high-integrity pneumatic components and nuclear reactor At the end of 2006 the Groups order book was valued at the controls.
Investment in a range of new programmes continued and record level of 583.6m, an increase of 16.6% over the position important contracts were secured during 2006 that will support at the same time last year.
This impressive order book further growth of the Group.
Ultras continuing success in winning achievement maintains historic levels of firm order cover for the new business on a broad range of international programmes coming year and reflects Ultras success in winning substantial resulted in a record order book of 584m at the year-end.
innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review Ultra has a deep In Ultra provides systems that understanding of the consistently ensure low specialist requirements for magnetic signatures for naval designing, supplying and ships and submarines to supporting equipment to minimise the risk of triggering control the safe operation of a sea mine.
This threat is nuclear reactors.
With the heightened as modern naval acquisition of Winfrith Safety operations are likely to be Systems in the year, Ultra can conducted in shallow coastal also now provide specialist waters.
Ultra is designing the sensors to determine levels signature management of nuclear activity system for the US Navys new Littoral Combat Ship new customer new technology new capability new market new platform the US Joint Strike Fighter programme where the Group is 2006 acquisitions developing an ice protection system for the engine intake of the In 2006, the Group made two acquisitions, Polyflex Aerospace Ltd aircraft.
Following the acquisition of Polyex, the division won a Polyflex in January and Winfrith Safety Systems Winfrith number of contracts from new customers for its range of specialist in July.
The total cash consideration for acquisitions was 7.8m high pressure pneumatic products.
including expenses, financed using Ultras banking facilities.
The reduced operating margin reflected adverse currency effects, Polyex designs, manufactures and provides in-service support for reorganisation costs to absorb the Polyflex acquisition into the high pressure pneumatic products for a wide variety of aerospace Groups Precision Air Systems business, and, as expected, the and defence applications.
The business has been subsumed into continuing B787 investment.
At this early stage in the Precision Air Systems within the Aircraft & Vehicle Systems division programme, development sales for the Joint Strike Fighter were and has broadened the Groups range of innovative components and taken at no margin.
sub-systems for high integrity defence and aerospace programmes.
Highlights of the divisions performance in the year that will Winfrith supplies specialist sensors and associated cables for use underpin continuing growth in future years included: within nuclear reactors.
The products have both civil and military applications and complement Ultras existing reactor control and continuing progress on the European A400M military instrumentation system design activity.
Winfrith is now part of the transport aircraft programme for which Ultra is developing Groups Command & Control Systems business in the Information the landing gear proximity sensing system, the cargo cabin & Power Systems division.
quietening system, the load masters noise control system, the cargo handling oor latch controllers and the landing Divisional Review gear harnesses: Aircraft & Vehicle Systems a contract to include design activity relating to the ice Aircraft & Vehicle Systems, with the integration of Polyex into protection equipment applicable to the lift fan on the Precision Air Systems, comprises five businesses in the UK and US short take-off and landing variant of the US Joint Strike that supply advanced technology products and software for Fighter aircraft: military aircraft, land vehicles and for civil aerospace markets.
Ultra supported the initiative to improve the protection Revenue in the division increased by 11% to 93.9m 2005: 84.4m provided to UK troops in Iraq and started, late in the year, while operating profit was 17% lower at 13.2m 2005: 15.9m, the supply of indirect vision systems for use on the recently giving an operating margin of 14.1% 2005: 18.8%.
The value of procured Mastiff vehicles.
These vision systems were the order book at the period-end was 176.9m 2005: 133.8m, adaptations of those originally developed for the British the increase mainly reecting the contract for HiPPAG airborne Armys Trojan and Titan vehicles.
compressors for the second production tranche of Typhoon aircraft.
Information & Power Systems Revenue growth was driven by the continuing buoyant conditions Information & Power Systems, with the integration of Winfrith into in the civil aerospace market with strong sales of Ultras cabin Command & Control Systems, consists of seven businesses in the UK quietening equipment for the Bombardier Q Series of turboprop and US that supply information management and power products aircraft and landing gear control computers for Airbus aircraft.
for defence, commercial and airport applications worldwide.
Orders for Boeings new 787 B787 aircraft have been strong Revenue in the period grew 3% to 120.5m 2005: 117.3m, and Ultras investment in this aircraft, developing the Wing Ice while operating profit improved 7% to 19.3m 2005: 18.1m, Protection system WIPS and proximity sensor electronics, giving a divisional operating margin of 16.0% 2005:15.4%.
Ultra also saw initial development sales on see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review Modern military In Every naval commander communication networks dreads the threat of an attack increasingly use the on his surface ship by a salvo protocols developed for of different torpedoes the Internet.
Ultra has launched at the same time.
In demonstrated in the US a trials with the US Navy, Ultra world-leading ability to demonstrated a winning add high-grade military performance in identifying encryption and to guarantee and tracking all threats the required levels of simultaneously the first time performance of such this had ever been achieved networks as well as new technology compressing data for new capability transmission via satellites new technology The order book at the end of the period was 110.2m 2005: Revenue in the division increased by 16% to 162.6m from 140.7m 127.9m, the reduction reflecting the timing of contract awards.
and operating profit increased 46% to 25.0m 2005: 17.1m.
The operating margin improved to 15.4% 2005: 12.2%.
The closing The predicted reduction in demand for Ultras transit system order book value was 296.5m 2005: 239.0m, due mainly to electrical power equipment partially offset the revenue growth strong demand for the divisions battlespace IT products.
The Group did win, however, the first contracts for trackside power units awarded by Network Rail since The strong revenue growth in the division reected continuing the end of its major southern region power upgrade programme.
demand for battlespace IT equipment, especially the repair, upgrade The high growth in airport and battlespace IT systems were the and replacement of products used in current operations in Iraq and principal drivers of revenue growth.
This resulted in strong sales of tactical radio and from higher activity levels at Heathrows Terminal 5 as well as a full network communication systems.
There was also an initial years sales contribution from the New Zealand baggage contribution from the sale of airborne targeting pods for use on reconciliation system.
Revenue was also higher on the Groups IT RAF Typhoon and Tornado aircraft.
In addition, 2006 saw significant integration contract at Shanghai airport.
Ultra continued to sales of underwater battlespace systems and equipment, including experience strong demand for its ADSI local situational awareness increased deliveries of sonobuoys in the US and torpedo defence systems.
In particular, sales were made in the US for an air defence systems, ship sonars and sea mine disposal systems for the Royal airspace management programme through which local Navy.
The division also benefited from a full years contribution from commanders in current operations are being provided with an Audiopack, acquired in 2005. enhanced picture of activity in their local airspace.
Following the Operating profit was increased by the successful completion of the acquisition of Winfrith, the division won small but important initial production phase of the UK torpedo defence programme.
The contracts from British Energy.
profitability of the division was further boosted by higher sales of The improvement in the operating margin was aided by good sonobuoy telemetry receivers and benefited from the completion of progress on the reactor control and instrumentation contract for older, multi-year contracts for these products.
The operating profit Rolls-Royce as well as the return to profitability of the divisions of this division was also enhanced by a significant contribution from transit power activities following the restructuring in 2005.
New contract wins in the year that will underpin the divisions Highlights of the divisions performance in the year that will performance in 2007 and beyond included: underpin continuing growth in 2007 and beyond included: selection at Dublin and Luton airports for common-use successful, rapid functional upgrade and initial deliveries check-in systems and at Minneapolis St Paul to provide an of Litening airborne targeting pods for Typhoon and integrated suite of airport IT applications: Tornado aircraft: the award of a land mine countermeasures contract for the selection in the UK to lead the capability demonstration British Army: phase of a new loitering munitions programme: a contract to supply shore-based electrical power conversion successful trials of Ultras PacketAssure product providing equipment for the submarine base at Faslane, Scotland.
guaranteed quality of service with high grade cryptographic security on military Internet-based Tactical & Sonar Systems communication networks.
This is an innovative world first: Tactical & Sonar Systems comprises eight businesses in the UK and successful trials with the US Navy of Ultras surface ship North America that supply communications and underwater torpedo defence capability, sharing technology with the equipment to homeland security and military users worldwide.
UK programme and demonstrating effective protection against multiple incoming threats of different types.
innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review 43% 13% North America Battlespace IT North America is the most important Revenue from Ultras battlespace IT region for Ultra, representing 43% systems and equipment increased of total Group revenue by 13% in 2006 and Audiopack, contributed for a full year in 2006.
Ultras Sectoral analysis of Ultras results domestic market in the UK reversed the trend of recent years and, Market sector analysis with an absolute increase in revenue of 14%, saw its share of Defence sales grew by 8% in the year and contributed 76% of Ultras sales rise to 40% 2005: 39%.
This was due to higher Group revenue 2005: 78%.
Revenue from battlespace IT systems systems development activity at Heathrow Airports new Terminal 5, continued to increase more quickly than average, with an absolute increased workload on the new nuclear reactor control system for increase of 12.8m or 13%.
This product category accounted for Rolls-Royce, the supply of the final surface ship torpedo defence 29% of total revenue compared to 28% in the previous year.
systems to the Royal Navy and encouraging progress on a number Much of this revenue came from the US with the increase achieved of new defence systems for the UK MoD.
The most significant in sterling terms in spite of the weaker US dollar.
Strong growth in improvement was in revenue from the Rest of the World, which sales of military radios and an increase in development sales for grew by 18% to account for 8% of Group turnover.
The key upgrades to Ultras ADSI product were the key factors.
Revenue factors here were an increase in the supply of military radio kits to from sonar equipment rose by just 2% in the year, despite higher Korea, the commissioning of a new UltraTrak baggage sonobuoy sales in the US.
Lower export sales of sonobuoys were reconciliation system in New Zealand late in 2005 and higher the explanation for this trend, which meant that the contribution activity on the new airport system being developed for Shanghais from Ultras sonar products fell to 24% of revenue 2005: 26%.
Finally revenue from continental Europe fell by Sales of equipment for military aircraft remained unchanged as a 8%, resulting in a 9% contribution to Group turnover.
The main percentage of Group revenue, as did sales for other defence reasons for the decline were lower sales of sonobuoys to France, platforms such as surface ships, submarines and military vehicles.
reduced shipments of equipment for the first tranche of the These two product categories accounted for 10% and 13% of Euroghter Typhoon aircraft programme and the completion in sales respectively, with both growing at or close to the overall 2005 of a number of European naval system contracts.
Civil markets became more important for Ultra during the year and contributed 24% of the Groups Market trends revenue, up from 22% in 2005.
The main reason for this was Whilst budgets have risen over recent years in Ultras main defence increased demand for original equipment for civil aircraft and the markets, in both the US and UK the continuing costs of strength of the associated after-market.
Civil aircraft equipment peacekeeping operations is putting strain on these defence revenue increased by 19% overall and this was the fastest growing budgets.
Nevertheless defence budgets continue to increase in real product category.
Finally sales of other civil equipment rose by terms throughout the world.
In the US, Ultras biggest defence 15% driven by higher activity levels in Ultras airport IT business.
market, the defence budget for 2006 7 is a record $439 billion to This category represented 15% of Group revenue 2005: 14%.
fund the necessary strategic investments to modernise and recapitalise key capabilities in the armed forces.
That gure does Geographic analysis not include the tens-of-billions of dollars in expected costs for US North America remained the most important region for Ultra, operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The administration funds the representing 43% of total Group revenue, the same proportion as Iraq and Afghanistan deployments through separate legislation.
in 2005 despite the negative translation effect of the weaker US The Presidents defence budget request for FY08 totals $481 billion dollar.
Revenue from this region increased 10% when expressed in to finance improved readiness through additional training and sterling.
The main reasons were higher sales of sonobuoys to the maintenance and by resetting or re-equipping forces following US Navy and additional US customer funding for new software overseas deployments.
applications for the ADSI and also for the development of ice protection systems for the Boeing 787 and the Joint Strike Fighter.
In addition the US acquisitions made in 2005, Horizon Aerospace see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review Ultra is developing the ice In In 2006, Ultra delivered to protection system for the the Royal Navy the first engine intake of the F-35 SeaFox mine disposal system Joint Strike Fighter aircraft which was developed and is specifying the ice through a teaming protection equipment needed arrangement with Atlas for the lift fan of the short Electronik in Germany.
The take off and landing version system is an adaptation of an existing design that Ultra new technology will supply to the Royal Navy new platform and then support from within the UK new capability Within the US and UK defence budgets, expenditure continues to Ultras success is derived from a focus on be focused on improving the use of intelligence, on enhancing the positioning its products and services on a ability rapidly to deploy forces and in providing increased protection for personnel.
Ultra has pursued a strategy that has broad range of international platforms and positioned the Group to benefit from these trends and constantly programmes.
This positioning is achieved seeks opportunities to offer new products and services to meet by pursuing strategies to ensure that Ultras such customer requirements.
offerings are differentiated from those of There is some evidence that the decline in one of Ultras traditional market sectors, that of Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW, has the competition in a way that the customer bottomed out.
The US has committed to buying over 100 P-8A ASW values.
Focus is sustained on creating and fixed wing aircraft and is also procuring over 240 ASW helicopters.
maintaining this differentiation in the future The Canadian government is procuring 28 ASW helicopters.
In Europe, the NH-90 ASW helicopter will shortly enter service as will and on continuing to provide innovative the long-delayed Nimrod MRA4 aircraft.
In the short term, Ultra is solutions to satisfy customer requirements.
supplying equipment to each of these programmes.
In the longer term, the entry into service of these platforms might be expected to increase the annual consumption and therefore demand for sonobuoys, the acoustic sensors that are used to detect submarines and for which Ultra is the world-leading supplier.
There is also renewed interest in upgrading sonobuoy sensor systems to exploit advanced digital technologies on both sides of the Atlantic.
The perceived terrorist threat to individuals and to economically important assets, together with the need to protect borders and coastlines from illegal immigrants and smugglers, are driving an increase in global demand for surveillance and enforcement systems, a market sector in which Ultra has innovative and cost-effective solutions.
Worldwide, there is a move to increase the unmanned element of ghting forces.
By so doing, the cost per platform is reduced as is the risk to personnel from enemy action.
For Ultra, this will reduce demand for specialist Human-Machine Interface HMI equipment used in cockpits, for example.
Anticipating this, Ultra has positioned its HMI equipment for use on the base stations that are used to control the unmanned vehicles.
In civil markets, aerospace remains healthy with both Airbus and Boeing, benefiting from large aircraft order backlogs, increasing their build rates and driving demand for sales of original equipment.
High aircraft utilisation, driven by greater demand for innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review Ultras new wing ice In In the US, Ultra delivered protection technology is a over 55,000 sonobuoys to key element of the highly the US Navy and successful Boeing 787 demonstrated an excellent aircraft programme quality record, acknowledged by the customer air travel as a result of growing populations with higher disposable About three quarters of Ultras revenue is from the defence sector.
incomes, is also increasing after market spares and repair activity.
A risk would therefore be a significant worldwide reduction in The current historically high price of oil is causing a shift in defence expenditure.
The overall size of the defence budgets demand from turbo-jet regional aircraft to more fuel efficient relative to Ultras annual revenue provides sufficient headroom for turbo-prop aircraft where Ultra has the opportunity to supply cabin the Groups growth to continue.
Ultras constant focus has quietening systems.
The worldwide increase in air travel is also consistently been on ensuring that the Groups businesses operate driving investment in infrastructure including airport IT systems.
in a large number of growing niche markets where the Group can Ultra has several competitive, niche technology offerings that create and maintain sustainable competitive advantage and so can position it well in the civil aerospace market.
The more mature of win business worldwide.
This specialism and diversity give some these are aircraft landing gear controls and proximity sensing protection from budget variations and so provide robustness to systems and cabin quietening for turbo-prop aircraft.
well established positions on long-term aircraft build programmes Ultras financial performance has not been signicantly driven by that should provide a ywheel effect for Ultras civil aerospace the current allied operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Ultras newer technology of wing ice protection has achieved that these operations might be scaled back in the next few years.
a position on the Boeing 787 aircraft which is set to become one Since Ultra did not benefit materially from the start of these of the worlds most successful aircraft programmes.
This should operations, it is anticipated that such a withdrawal would not drive further growth in the medium term.
harm the Groups trading position.
Indeed, it might well be an Ultras customers aspire to stable or reducing prices for the goods overall benefit to the Group as it may alleviate some of the current and services that they procure.
This inevitably leads to cost pressures on defence budgets.
pressures to which the Group must respond.
Ultra has a long track The international spread of Ultras activities provides resilience to record of product innovation to reduce costs whilst delivering its performance.
The Group now sells its products and services in improved performance and achieving operational efficiencies by over 30 countries worldwide and this has broadened the working more intelligently.
More recently, Ultra has made customer base.
Ultra also has a transatlantic capability, with ten of significant progress in sourcing production in low cost economies its twenty businesses being in North America and so is exploiting where this is appropriate, given the nature of the products that the its innovative solutions and operating as a domestic agent on both Group provides.
The anticipated cost reductions have been sides of the Atlantic.
achieved, thereby helping protect and improve the Groups Ultra is represented on a significant range of major international operating margins.
As a result, no single programme Management of risks and uncertainties represents more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any single year.
The Ultras confidence in its ability to continue to deliver growth is cancellation or curtailment of any single programme is unlikely underpinned by a number of key factors.
The Group has a track therefore to have a material adverse impact on the Group.
record of year-on-year success despite significant volatility in Ultra supplies to all elements of the armed forces, i. e. the army, foreign exchange rates and whilst experiencing full market cycles navy, air force and marines together with first responders such as in both the civil aerospace and defence sectors.
These risks will medical staff and re ghters.
This customer spread provides an continue to be mitigated through robust business strategies.
In addition, Ultra operates in a number Further, Ultra has access to adequate financial and human of different distinct market sectors, including battlespace IT: sonar: resources to implement its strategy for the foreseeable future.
military aircraft equipment, and military vehicle equipment.
Again, this reduces the risk of decline in any one market sector materially affecting Ultras overall performance.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review In late 2006, Ultra delivered In In 2006, Ultra benefited indirect vision systems for from higher activity levels at use on the UK MoDs Heathrows Terminal 5 where recently procured Mastiff the Group is responsible for vehicles.
These vision systems the integration of all the were adaptations of those airport IT systems originally developed for the British Armys Trojan and Titan vehicles new platform new capability Ultra has significant business in the civil sector and this provides Ultra is well placed against this market background and has ample useful diversification, often providing an adjacent market in headroom to grow as the focus for expenditure continues to be on which to exploit complementary skills and technologies.
Within battlespace IT and equipment to support mobility and the civil market, Ultra operates in aerospace, transport and expeditionary operations.
This spread gives further resilience to Strong growth in demand for civil aircraft is being driven by the Ultras performance.
increasing affordability of air travel, especially in those areas of The Groups largest exposure to the adverse effects of exchange the world where rapid population growth is combined with rate volatility is the UK:US$ impact.
Whilst Ultra has a natural rising disposable incomes.
Competitive pressures will focus hedge from its geographic split of businesses, the Group has demand on fuel-efficient aircraft that are more cost-effective also responded by sourcing a higher proportion of the cost of and less damaging to the environment.
This increasing demand dollar-denominated products in dollar zones.
This is in addition to for air travel also encourages continuing investment in enhanced the Groups usual currency hedging arrangements detailed below.
The industries in which the Group operates continue to experience The Group entered 2007 with a record order book of 584m, an restructuring, which sometimes results in Ultras customers increase of 17% over the position at the same time last year.
This themselves becoming more vertically integrated.
This may increase maintains historic levels of rm order cover for the coming year the incidence of the Groups customers having capabilities that and reects Ultras success in winning new business on a broad overlap with Ultras.
The threat that this otherwise might pose is range of international programmes.
offset by Ultras strategy of operating in specic market niches With its robust balance sheet, Ultra continues to invest both where it has some sustainable differentiation.
through internal developments and through acquisition.
The Group Outlook for Ultra pursues good quality businesses that can be acquired at sensible multiples and to which Ultras ownership adds value.
Investments The Groups broad mix of activities enables it to exploit its niche such as the wing ice protection system for the Boeing 787 aircraft market positions and apply its differentiated technologies to continue to be attractive as they allow Ultra to work closely with a wide range of programmes.
Ultras spread of businesses across its customers to develop tailored solutions.
The Groups decision to North America and the UK enables it to address specic national invest in the B787 programme is validated by Boeing having requirements where a sovereign operational capability must be received 435 rm orders for the aircraft by the end of 2006. maintained.
Further, the Groups structure enables it to operate in a flexible and agile way.
Ultras businesses are encouraged constantly Ultra has a broad range of products and services and has a successful to pursue product and process innovation and this places Ultra in track record of winning positions on a wide range of international a strong position to provide differentiated products, services and programmes.
Combined with healthy market conditions, this gives solutions to meet customer requirements.
the Board confidence of further progress in 2007.
Expenditure is increasing on the repair, upgrade or replacement of equipment used in current military operations.
This is continuing to exert pressure on defence budgets: however, the absolute level of defence expenditure is still rising.
Electronic solutions to provide smarter equipment continue to attract a significant and rising proportion of these budgets.
innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review Financial position Cash generation 98% conversion 56.5m 2005: 53.8m David Jeffcoat, Finance Director cash payment of 2.3m, with a possible further 0.8m of deferred Operating cash ow consideration depending upon future order intake and operational Ultra achieved excellent cash generation once again during 2006, performance.
The initial payment was classied as 0.2m worth of with an operating cash inow, after capital expenditure and LTIP xed assets and working capital and 1.0m in respect of intangible share purchases, of 56.5m 2005: 53.8m.
This meant that the assets.
The remaining 2.1m was treated as goodwill.
These ratio of cash to operating profit was 98%, bringing the rolling five intangible assets arising on acquisition will be amortised over a year average to 110%.
The main driver of this performance was period of ten years.
The goodwill will not be amortised but will be the effective management of working capital.
Inventories rose by subject to regular annual impairment reviews.
Finally a small 3.4m and receivables by 6.9m, reecting the growth of the adjustment of 0.1m was made to the fair value of the property, business.
However there was a very significant improvement in the plant and equipment acquired with Audiopack in 2005. receivables position during the second half of the year and the balance outstanding at year-end was equivalent to 40 days of sales, Expenditure of 3.8m on product development was capitalised in down from 42 days at the end of 2005.
Trade payables increased the year since it is regarded as creating intellectual property with 10.1m, due partly to higher activity levels.
In addition the number a significant long-term commercial value.
Most of this cost was of days of creditor payments outstanding rose to 54, compared to incurred in connection with the development work that Ultra is 51 days the previous year-end.
The net balance due to customers doing for Airbus on its A400M transport aircraft, which will not on long-term contracts fell by 3.6m because several larger go into production until 2010.
This increase in intangible assets contracts moved closer to completion.
However the net amount was offset in part by an amortisation charge of 2.2m, taken owed remained positive at 6.1m 2005: 9.7m, reecting Ultras because the associated intangible assets were deemed to be of ability to manage contract cash ow successfully at neutral or better.
less value than at the start of the year.
The typical amortisation With relatively low capital expenditure of just 4.8m 2005: 7.3m, period for capitalised development costs is in the range of five to there was a net capital release of 0.8m from the Groups tangible ten years, depending upon the expected commercial life of the xed asset base, compared to an absorption of 1.1m in 2005.
biggest capital investment projects in the year involved spending Interest and profit before taxation 0.6m to upgrade equipment and software tools in the Finance costs, excluding fair value movement on derivatives, fell by development laboratory of the military radio business Tactical 0.4m to 3.9m for the year.
The main reason was that a notional Communication Systems in Montreal, Canada, the purchase of charge of 0.9m associated with pension accounting was included additional capacity for Ultras contract electronic manufacturing in the 2005 nancing costs.
In 2006 the corresponding amount was business in Weymouth, UK for a cost of 0.5m and similar a notional credit of 0.1m, which is included in investment income.
expenditure to consolidate two Ultra businesses onto a single site in This reduction in finance costs was partly offset by an increase in Wallingford, Connecticut.
Additional shares were purchased for the interest costs on bank debt, including amortised fees, to 3.9m executive directors Long-Term Incentive Plan at a cost of 0.5m, 2005: 3.3m due to higher bank borrowings on average during slightly less than in 2005 when 0.6m was spent.
This was caused by the acquisition of Audiopack mid-way Acquisitions and intangible assets during 2005 and the two smaller acquisitions in 2006.
Net bank The Group made two acquisitions in the year.
Polyex Aerospace interest costs were covered 22 times by operating profit.
Ltd was bought in January for a total cost before expenses of Headline profit before tax, amortisation of intangible assets arising 4.3m.
Of this cost, 0.5m was represented by xed assets and on acquisition and the fair value movement on derivatives improved working capital, 2.8m by intangible assets such as patents and by 15.8% to 54.9m 2005: 47.4m.
The amortisation charge for intellectual property and the balance of 1.2m was classied as intangibles arising on acquisition was 3.6m in the year, compared goodwill.
Then in July Ultra acquired Winfrith Safety Systems for a see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review Bank interest cover Net debt at year-end 22 times 7.2m 2005: 19 times 2005: 34.3m to 3.3m in 2005.
These intangibles increased following the The Groups banking facilities were set up in 2005 and are provided acquisition of Polyex Aerospace and Winfrith Safety Systems by a small syndicate of banks, led by The Royal Bank of Scotland.
A gain of 3.7m was reported on fair value They involve up to 120m of revolving credit over a five-year movement on derivatives 2005: loss of 3.4m.
This was driven period, denominated in sterling, US dollars and Canadian dollars mainly by a 14% weakening in the US dollar against sterling and are used for balance sheet and operational needs.
The Groups UK and Canadian businesses hedge sterling and US dollar elements fund day-to-day working capital forward their US dollar-denominated sales revenues, typically over requirements and the US and Canadian dollar borrowings also an 18 to 24 month period, and the weaker US dollar had the represent natural hedges against assets denominated in those effect of increasing the nominal value of these financial currencies.
A further overdraft of 10m is also available for shortinstruments at the year-end closing exchange rates.
It should be term working capital funding.
emphasised that this notional reported gain will never be Financial risk management interest rates realised: it is simply a timing effect.
The real worth of the hedging A significant portion of the Groups current borrowings has been contracts to the Group is to x the value in local currency of taken on to fund acquisitions in North America.
With the foreign currency sales receipts in the future, thus reducing the objective of reducing the risk associated with debt at floating uncertainty that would otherwise exist as to their realisable value.
interest rates, new three year interest rate hedging contracts were Statutory profit before tax was 55.0m 2005: 40.7m, an entered into in December 2005.
These cover $30m of US dollar increase of 35%.
borrowings, reducing to $20m in December 2007, and $30m of Tax, earnings per share and dividends Canadian dollar debt.
These amounts compare to gross debts of The effective Group tax rate rose slightly to 28.0% 2005: 27.7% US $30m and Canadian $33.4m that were in place at the end of reflecting the fact that a larger proportion of Ultras profits were the year.
Therefore, 28.5m out of a total gross debt of 33.0m generated in the US and Canada, where marginal tax rates are was at fixed interest rates.
The remaining 4.5m of debt, higher.
Earnings per share, based on profit before amortisation of comprising mainly sterling-denominated borrowings, was at intangible assets arising on acquisition and the fair value floating rates.
The effective interest rate for the total gross debt movement on derivatives, rose by 15.2% to 58.4p 2005: 50.7p.
at year-end was 4.6%, somewhat lower than the prevailing The Board is proposing a final dividend of 12.6p, bringing the floating rates.
This Financial risk management foreign currency proposal reflects the directors policy of paying a dividend that is Ultras reported financial results are inuenced by movements in covered at least three times by earnings per share.
exchange rates and the overall impact is a combination of currency Financing translation and currency transaction effects.
The biggest sensitivity Ultra generated 40.9m of free cash ow before dividends and is to the US and Canadian dollars.
After dividend payments The average dollar exchange rates used in the year to translate the of 11.1m this left 29.8m for acquisitions.
With relatively low sales and operating profits of Ultras American and Canadian acquisition expenditure of 7.8m in the year, the remaining surplus subsidiaries into sterling weakened by 3% and strengthened by cash, together with funds generated by the exercising of share 3% respectively compared to 2005.
For the Group as a whole, options, has been applied to reduce external bank borrowings.
This currency translation effects decreased sales by 4.0m or 1% and resulted in a significant reduction in net debt, from 34.3m to operating profit by 0.5m or 1%.
The balance sheet therefore continues to be very strong and Some businesses in the UK and Canada also trade in foreign Ultra has substantial headroom on its banking facilities to make currencies, mainly US dollars.
When the foreign currency weakens further acquisitions.
innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating & Financial Review Total dividend 30 countries resilience through breadth Ultra sells its systems, 16% growth products and services in more than 30 countries worldwide 18.5p 2005: 15.9p against local currencies this means that turnover suffers from a independently assessed by the Pensions Management Institute.
This can be compensated in Employees at Tactical Communication Systems in Canada also part by sourcing materials in US dollars, thus reducing the overall participate in a defined benefit scheme.
There was an IAS19 net exposure to currency uctuations.
The Group policy is to deficit of 1.3m on this scheme at the end of 2005.
The company hedge the net exposure on orders in hand using forward foreign took actuarial advice and made a lump sum payment of 1.2m exchange contracts, typically extending 18-24 months.
Exposure to during the year.
As a result the funding position improved to a nil other currencies is hedged as it arises on specic contracts.
Regular payments into the fund will continue upon the combined net exposure of about US $116m last year, going forward with the objective of maintaining a satisfactory Group operating profit in 2006 would have been approximately funding position.
4.3m or 7% higher had the overall hedged rates remained All staff that have joined Ultra in the UK since the dened benefit unchanged from the previous year.
Ultras effective US$:UK rate scheme was closed in 2003 have been invited to become members for 2007, based upon the forward contracts currently in place, is of the Ultra Electronics Group Personal Pension plan.
Under the expected to be approximately $1.82, compared to $1.77 in 2006. terms of this dened contribution scheme, company payments For the US dollar:Canadian dollar exposure there is expected to be supplement contributions from the employees.
a weakening of 5% in the hedged rate.
In the US, Ultra offers a defined contribution 401 k retirement Pensions benefit plan to full time employees.
Under this plan, Ultra Ultra offers company-funded retirement benets to all its provides participating and contributing employees with matching employees.
In the UK a substantial number of staff still participate contributions, subject to plan and US Internal Revenue Service in the Ultra Electronics Limited dened benefit scheme, which was limitations.
Audiopack, which became part of Ultra during 2005, closed to new entrants in 2003.
The scheme was last assessed consolidated its previous plan into the Ultra scheme during 2006. actuarially in April 2004, when its funding level was 97% of the Wells Fargo provides administrative support and is also a directed Minimum Funding Requirement.
The net IAS19 scheme deficit was trustee of the plan.
The present value of the liabilities rose for the second year in Ultras performance in 2006 extends its succession, driven by higher ination.
However the fair value of the scheme assets increased by 18.4m in the year, which more than long track record of continuous progress compensated for the 8.8m growth in the liabilities.
The scheme is and the Group enters 2007 with a relatively immature, with just 19% of the members already retired, remains strongly cash positive and has benefited in recent years record order book and a strong balance from an investment strategy that is biased towards equities rather sheet.
Ultra has the funds to make further than bonds.
The next full actuarial assessment is due in April 2007. acquisitions that will enhance and The scheme has a statement of investment principles, which complement the Groups range of niche includes a specic declaration on socially responsible investment: this is delegated to the investment managers.
Pension management activities in growing market sectors.
and governance is undertaken by the pension trustees on behalf of the members.
The trustees include both company-nominated and employee-elected representatives.
Ultra supports the trustees in a number of ways including the provision of training to the Trustee Certicate of Essential Pensions Knowledge standard which is see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23
