DIRECTORS REPORT AND OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW Privatisation and restructuring History and Development of the Business The 1992 Order provided for the privatisation and restructuring of NIE was incorporated in 1991 as a public limited company and was the electricity industry in Northern Ireland in 1992 which included subsequently listed in 1993.
It carries on four regulated businesses the trade sale of power stations owned by NIE.
PPB was established in Northern Ireland: transmission and distribution of electricity to administer the long-term power purchase contracts which were through T&D: power procurement through PPB: transmission put in place with the new owners of the power stations.
NIE system operation through SONI: and supply of electricity through retained responsibility for the transmission, distribution and supply of NIE Supply.
A new regulatory framework was put in place to provide for price regulation of NIEs activities.
Viridian Group PLC Viridian was formed as a new holding company in 1998 following a capital reorganisation under which Viridian Regulation acquired NIE and the Groups unregulated activities were NIAER and the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment separated from NIE.
Viridian is a public limited company DETI are the principal regulators.
Each is given specific powers, registered in Northern Ireland, listed on both the London and duties and functions under the Orders.
The functions of NIAER Irish Stock Exchanges.
include licensing pursuant to a general authority given by DETI and the general supervision and enforcement of the licensing regime.
Over the last four years, the Group has developed a substantial DETIs functions include licensing, the giving of consents for new position in the competitive electricity supply markets in both power stations and overhead lines, fuel stocking, the encouragement Northern Ireland and the RoI, including a significant investment in of renewable generation and the regulation of matters relating to the new generating plant in the RoI.
In conjunction with this quality and safety of electricity supply.
development, the Group has disposed of a number of businesses including Open Direct financial services : nevada The regulators objectives and duties telecommunications joint venture : Moyle Interconnector electricity The principal objective of both NIAER and DETI in carrying out their interconnector between Northern Ireland and Scotland : and Sx3 functions in relation to electricity is to protect the interests of software and IT services.
The activities of the Group are now consumers of electricity, wherever appropriate, by promoting conducted through two principal businesses: effective competition between those engaged in, or in commercial activities connected with, the generation, transmission or supply of NIE - regulated electricity businesses in Northern Ireland: and electricity.
Each of NIAER and DETI has a duty to carry out its VP&E - generation in the RoI and supply in the competitive functions in the manner which it considers is best calculated to electricity markets in both Northern Ireland and the RoI.
further this principal objective, having regard to a number of factors, including the need to ensure that all reasonable demands for In addition, Powerteam provides high voltage electrical contracting electricity are met and that licensees are able to finance their and other infrastructure services, principally to T&D, but also to a authorised activities.
In performing that duty they are required to range of other utility and industrial customers.
have regard to the interests of individuals whose circumstances include being disabled, chronically sick or of pensionable age or having low incomes or residing in rural areas.
They must also have Regulation and Legislation regard to the effect of the industrys activities on the environment and their role includes promoting energy efficiency.
Northern Ireland The 2003 Order gives the Consumer Council responsibility for The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is governed principally by representing electricity consumers and dealing with their complaints.
the Electricity Northern Ireland Order 1992 1992 Order as The Consumer Council has powers to investigate any matter relating amended by the Energy Northern Ireland Order 2003 2003 Order to the interests of electricity customers and to obtain information together the Orders and by the conditions of the licences which from electricity licence holders.
have been granted under the 1992 Order.
The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is also subject to UK and EU legislation relating to the environment and competition.
8 Operating Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 Competition in generation and supply NIAER has set both guaranteed standards and overall standards The principal rules for trading electricity in Northern Ireland are covering certain customer services, the majority of which apply to contained in the Supply Competition Code SCC.
At the time of services provided by T&D e. g. the restoration of customers supplies restructuring of the industry in 1992, the SCC required all licensed following an interruption and responding to customers voltage generators to sell their entire capacity and output to PPB and complaints.
The guaranteed standards apply in individual cases required suppliers to buy all their requirements with certain limited and NIE is obliged to make a payment to each customer affected if it exceptions from PPB at its regulated Bulk Supply Tariff BST.
fails to meet a guaranteed standard.
The overall standards apply at the collective level and, whilst NIE is not required to make payments Since then there has been a staged approach to market opening to customers if it fails to meet an overall standard, the Licence which began in 1999 with competition for supply to large users.
On obliges NIE to conduct its business in such a way as can reasonably 1 March 2005 supply to all non-domestic customers became open be expected to lead to it achieving the overall standards.
to competition in line with the requirements of Directive 2003 54 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 PPB is required to draw up, publish and maintain the BST in a form concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity the approved by NIAER, under which it offers non-discriminatory, price- 2003 Electricity Directive.
Consequently suppliers are able to regulated terms for the sale of electricity to suppliers.
An economic supply such non-domestic customers 56,000 comprising c60% of purchasing obligation requires it to contract for electricity at the best the market by volume from wholesalers generators of their choice effective price reasonably obtainable, having regard to the sources rather than solely from PPB.
available, and to keep its commitments under review.
Once it has met the needs of domestic customers not yet eligible for competition Suppliers to domestic customers are still required to purchase their or business customers not taking part in the competitive market, wholesale requirements with the exception of supplies procured PPB is incentivised, under its price control, to trade any contract from renewable generation sources from PPB.
The 2003 Electricity surpluses in the competitive market.
PPB is also required to draw Directive requires 100% market opening, i. e. including all domestic up and publish a schedule of public service obligation PSO customers currently 718,000, by July 2007. charges for the provision of services which are of a public service nature.
PSO charges are approved by NIAER and Licences payable by all suppliers.
There are four types of electricity licence: transmission, public electricity supply PES, second tier supply and generation.
SONI is required to maintain the operating security standard and to Licences regulate the economic behaviour of licensees: set a publish a price-regulated system support services SSS charge for framework for competition in generation and supply: underpin the the provision of the services it provides as transmission system arrangements relating to security of supply: protect the technical operator and market operator.
SSS charges are payable by all integrity of the system: and provide for certain types of consumer suppliers.
DETI intends to grant a separate licence to SONI to meet services.
the requirements of the 2003 Electricity Directive relating to the independence of the transmission system operator and work is NIEs transmission and PES licence progressing to achieve this.
NIE holds a transmission licence and a PES licence combined in one licence document the Licence.
The Licence requires NIE to NIE Supply is obliged, subject to certain exceptions, to supply carry on its activities through a number of separate businesses, electricity to premises in Northern Ireland upon request by the including T&D, PPB, SONI and NIE Supply.
Any customer whose maximum demand does not exceed 1MW is entitled to be supplied on a published priceT&D is required to develop and maintain an efficient, co-ordinated regulated tariff, although customers may instead enter into a and economical system of: contract agreed with NIE Supply.
Customers with a maximum demand greater than 1MW must enter into individual contracts if electricity transmission - the bulk transfer of electricity across its they wish to receive a supply of electricity from NIE Supply.
high voltage network of overhead lines, underground cables and associated equipment mainly operating at 275kV and 110kV.
Other licences NIEs transmission system is connected to that of the RoI Second tier supply licences authorise holders to supply electricity to through 275kV and 110kV interconnectors and to the premises within Northern Ireland, but do not contain all the transmission system in Scotland via the Moyle Interconnector: conditions imposed on NIE Supply in its capacity as the public and electricity supplier for Northern Ireland.
There are 10 holders of second tier licences, of which four including Energia are currently electricity distribution - the transfer of electricity from the high active in the competitive market.
voltage transmission system and its delivery to customers across a network of overhead lines and underground cables Holders of generation licences are required to make their plant operating at 33kV, 11kV and lower voltages.
available for central despatch by SONI.
Their licences contain provisions concerning change of control and the approval of power T&D must offer charges to suppliers for use of the transmission and station operators.
With certain limited exceptions, NIE is prohibited distribution system on a price-regulated and non-discriminatory from owning generation assets in Northern Ireland.
It is also required to offer terms for connection to the system on a non-discriminatory basis approved by NIAER.
Licence compliance, modification, termination and revocation NIAER has powers to enforce compliance with licence conditions.
The 2003 Order provides for NIAER to levy a financial penalty up to 10% of revenue for breach of a relevant condition.
Operating Review 9 NIAER may modify the conditions of licences, either in accordance purchase costs on customers supplied under the BST.
The costs with their terms or in accordance with the procedures set out in the which PPB incurs in the provision of services of a public service Orders, with the agreement of the licensee after due notice, public nature are recovered on a pass through basis via PSO charges.
consultation and consideration of any representations and SONIs price control principally covers the cost of system support objections.
In the absence of such agreement, NIAER is required to and market operator services as well as its own operating costs.
make a referral to the Competition Commission before a proposed The outcome of NIAERs review of the current price controls for PPB licence modification can be made.
Modifications may introduce new and SONI, which were due to be reset with effect from 1 April 2006, conditions relating to activities authorised by the licence or to other is awaited.
activities or may amend existing conditions.
A modification can be vetoed by DETI.
Modifications of licence conditions may also be NIE Supplys price control allows it to pass through to customers made by statutory order as a consequence of a reference under the those costs which are separately regulated principally relating to the Competition Act 1998. cost of purchasing electricity at the BST from PPB and payment to T&D for use of the transmission and distribution system.
Regulated Licences may be terminated by not less than 25 years notice given income associated with NIE Supplys other costs is subject to a RPIby DETI and are revocable by DETI in certain circumstances X formula where X is set at 3% under the current price control.
including: where the licensee consents to revocation: where the Two thirds of NIE Supplys income is fixed while the other third licensee fails to comply with an enforcement order made by NIAER: varies according to the number of customers supplied by the or where specified insolvency procedures are initiated in respect of business.
The current price control, which is due to be reset with the licensee or its assets.
NIEs Licence may also be revoked if effect from 1 April 2007, requires NIE Supply to make a number of Viridian becomes insolvent or ceases to have control of NIE.
social and environmental commitments including: the installation of further keypad meters: further energy efficiency measures to deliver Price controls 6m of lifetime savings: and certain actions to stimulate the NIEs regulated businesses are subject to price controls, defined in development of micro-renewable generation.
formulae set out in the Licence, which limit the revenues they may earn and the prices they may charge.
The principles of price regulation employed in the relevant licence conditions reflect the Republic of Ireland general duties of NIAER and DETI under the Orders.
These include The principal legislative instruments governing the regulation of the having regard to the need to ensure that licensees are able to energy sector in the RoI are the Electricity Regulation Act 1999 the finance their authorised activities.
The revenues of T&D, PPB, SONI 1999 Act, the European Communities Internal Market in Electricity and NIE Supply are each subject to controls which are periodically Regulations 2000 and 2005, the Gas Interim Regulation Act reviewed by NIAER.
2002 the 2002 Act and the European Communities Internal Market in Natural Gas No.
If the amount of revenue recovered in any one year exceeds or falls short of the amount allowed by the relevant price control formula, a In addition, the energy sector in the RoI is subject to EU legislation correction factor operates in the following year to give back any relating to the environment and competition.
surplus with interest, or to recover any deficit with interest, as appropriate.
A surplus is referred to as an over-recovery and a Regulation deficit as an under-recovery.
Overall policy responsibility for the energy sector lies with the Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources.
In The current T&D price control is scheduled to be reviewed and reset this capacity, the Minister is advised by the Department of with effect from 1 April 2007.
Under the current price control, Communications, Marine and Natural Resources DCMNR and a charges for the use of the transmission and distribution system are range of other statutory bodies including CER and Sustainable subject to a price control formula consisting of a fixed component Energy Ireland.
CER is the national regulatory authority for the and a variable component which depends on the volume of units energy sector.
CER was established as the regulator of the electricity transmitted and distributed.
Each component is controlled by a RPIsector by the 1999 Act and was subsequently vested with regulatory X formula with X at 5% under the current price control.
This has authority over the downstream gas sector by the 2002 Act.
the effect subject to volume changes of reducing the allowed revenues by 5% in real terms in the second and each subsequent The functions of CER include: advising the Minister: licensing year of the price control period.
Income from certain other T&D market participants: the general supervision and enforcement of the services, such as connection charges, is excluded from the price licensing regime: the regulation of third party access and network control.
In December 2005 NIAER published initial proposals for a tariffs in both the gas and electricity sectors: the setting of gas and new price control that would run for five years with effect from electricity market rules: and setting public electricity supply tariffs 1 April 2007.
The key aspects of the proposals are set out in the and residential gas tariffs.
DCMNRs functions include drafting Group Chief Executives Review.
legislation, advising the Minister on issues of energy policy and promoting renewable energy.
The PPB price control fixes the maximum revenue which PPB may recover from sales of wholesale electricity to suppliers including NIE Supply.
In addition to recovery of its electricity purchase costs, the current price control provides PPB with a revenue entitlement which contains a fixed component and a variable component.
Under the latter, PPB is incentivised to trade surplus contracted capacity to second tier suppliers as a means of reducing the impact of its power 10 Operating Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 CERs objectives and duties There will be a single system marginal price SMP for the whole The principal objective of CER in carrying out its functions in relation island that will be set for every half hour.
The amounts paid to to energy is to protect the interests of energy consumers, wherever generators and the amounts charged to suppliers will be a function appropriate, by promoting effective competition between persons of the SMP, together with a range of other components including: engaged in, or in commercial activities connected with, the capacity payments payments to generators for making their capacity generation, transmission or supply of electricity and the available : constraint payments payments to generators when they transportation and supply of natural gas.
CER has a duty to carry are constrained on or off for reasons relating to operation of the out its functions in a manner which does not discriminate between transmission system : and ancillary service payments payments market participants and protects the interests of customers.
to generators for services they provide to maintain the stable operation of the transmission system and to restore the power Competition in electricity generation and supply system in an emergency.
The principal rules for trading electricity in the RoI are set out in the Trading and Settlement Code issued by CER.
Key Performance Indicators The electricity market is fully open to competition.
There are four The Board has determined that the following key performance types of licence: transmission, distribution, supply and generation.
indicators KPIs, covering both financial and operational Licences regulate the economic behaviour of licensees: set a performance, are the most effective measures of progress towards framework for competition in generation and supply: underpin the achieving the Groups objectives.
arrangements relating to security of supply: and protect the technical integrity of the system.
Huntstown 1 holds a generation licence and Financial KPIs Energia holds a supply licence.
The financial KPIs are: NIE pro-forma operating profit based on regulated entitlement Competition in gas supply and pre exceptional items : The principal rules for shipping natural gas in the RoI are contained VP&E operating profit pre exceptional items : in the Bord Gis ireann BGE Code of Operations.
Huntstown 1 interest cover based on Group pro-forma operating profit : and Energia have each entered into a framework agreement with pro-forma earnings per share from continuing operations based BGE binding them to this code and are entitled to ship gas in the on regulated entitlement, pre exceptional items and deferred RoI.
Energia holds a gas shipping supply licence and is licensed tax : and both to ship gas to Huntstown 1 as well as to supply eligible gas return on capital employed ROCE based on Group pro-forma customers.
The gas market in the RoI is not yet fully open to operating profit.
competition, with domestic customers still supplied by BGE.
Full market opening is scheduled to take place before July 2007 in line Financial KPIs and commentary thereon are set out in the with EU Directive 2003 55 concerning Common Rules for the Financial Review.
Energia started supplying some large customers with gas in April 2005.
Operational KPIs The operational KPIs for NIE are: performance against the overall and guaranteed standards set Single Electricity Market by NIAER covering certain customer services: In November 2004 the Minister with responsibility for Enterprise, the number of complaints which the Consumer Council takes Trade and Investment Northern Ireland and the Minister for up on behalf of customers Stage 2 complaints : and Communications, Marine and Natural Resources RoI jointly the average number of minutes lost per customer through published a development framework for the introduction of an allsupply interruptions excluding the impact of major island energy market.
Within that framework, one of the short-term storms CML.
priorities is to establish arrangements for all-island trading of wholesale electricity.
NIAER and CER have signed a memorandum The operational KPIs for VP&E are: of understanding in which they have committed to working together generation plant availability the percentage of time generation to develop the SEM in consultation with market participants.
plant is available to produce full output : and The SEM is scheduled to be established by July 2007 and will be the volume of electricity sales TWh in Northern Ireland and based on a gross mandatory pool through which all electricity with the RoI.
limited exceptions will be bought and sold.
Generators will make offers to sell their electricity into the pool and will be despatched Operational KPIs and commentary thereon are set out in the relevant centrally on the basis of their bids.
Suppliers will purchase all of Business Review.
their wholesale requirements from the pool.
The Board also regards the lost time incident rate LTIR as a KPI in respect of employee safety.
Commentary thereon is set out in the Workplace section of the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report.
Operating Review 11 Operational performance Business Reviews KPIs T&D 2006 2005 Background information Number Number The T&D business is responsible for the planning, development, Overall standards - defaults None None construction and maintenance of the transmission and distribution Guaranteed standards - defaults None 1 network and for the operation of the distribution network.
The T&D network is used to convey electricity from generating stations in 1 Stage 2 complaints to the 27 32 Northern Ireland to customers' premises.
The T&D business derives Consumer Council its revenue principally through use of system charges levied on electricity suppliers.
CML planned 47 50 CML faults 78 73 The T&D network comprises a number of interconnected networks of overhead lines and underground cables which are used for the Total CML 125 123 transfer of electricity to customers via a number of substations.
1 There are approximately 2,100km of the transmission system, of subject to formal classification by the Consumer Council.
which some 80km are underground: and approximately 42,900km of the distribution system, of which some 13,100km are During the year, all the overall standards were achieved and there underground.
At 31 March 2006, 774,000 customers were were no defaults against the guaranteed standards 2005 - 1. connected to the distribution system.
T&Ds strong focus on service failure analysis has helped to limit the Financial performance number of instances when customers are dissatisfied to the extent T&D revenues based on regulated entitlement increased by 0.9m that they refer a complaint to the Consumer Council.
The number of mainly due to higher income associated with the recovery of market Stage 2 complaints reduced to 27 2005 - 32. opening costs, offset by lower price control revenues.
Based on regulated entitlement, T&D reported profits of 83.2m compared to During the year, the number of CML increased slightly to 125 2005 73.9m last year.
Profits benefited from a change in the method of - 123.
As shown in the table below, the number of CML has depreciation for infrastructure assets which brings T&D into line with reduced significantly over the last five years reflecting investment in the majority of UK DNOs.
Before 31 March 2005, T&D overhead line refurbishment, increased use of mobile generators infrastructure assets were depreciated at 3% per annum for the first and live-line working during planned outages, and shorter 20 years followed by 2% per annum for the remaining 20 years.
Since 1 April 2005, new assets are being depreciated on a straightline basis over 40 years and existing assets on a straight-line basis 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 over their remaining life.
This change has resulted in a reduction of Number Number Number Number Number 4.5m in T&Ds depreciation charge from what it otherwise would CML planned 47 50 52 47 68 have been.
Profits also benefited from reductions in operating costs CML faults 78 73 90 96 107 and the absence of certain restructuring and reorganisation costs incurred last year.
In particular, cost savings were achieved as a Total CML 125 123 142 143 175 result of centralising customer call handling at the distribution control centre in Craigavon: this included the transfer to T&D of T&D continues to make substantial investment in its infrastructure some services previously provided by Sx3.
Network capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March resulted from a lower headcount.
2006 was in line with the regulatory allowance which provides for a programme totalling 257m after customers contributions and at 2004 05 prices over the five year period to March 2007.
Total capital expenditure, including expenditure on customer service systems, other non-network assets and new systems required to support market opening in Northern Ireland was 73.5m 2005 - 72.5m before customer contributions of 17.1m 2005 - 15.6m.
12 Operating Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 SONI PPB SONI SONI is responsible for the safe, secure and economic operation of Background information the transmission system in Northern Ireland.
This includes despatch of generating plant and managing interconnector transfers PPB to meet demand for electricity in Northern Ireland.
SONI also PPB was established to administer the long-term power purchase undertakes the role of market operator in Northern Ireland and agreements PPAs which were put in place with the purchasers of makes arrangements for interconnector capacity auctions and the the power stations at privatisation of the electricity industry in provision of appropriate trading mechanisms for independent Northern Ireland in 1992. generators and suppliers.
Following certain changes to the PPAs, the current contracted SONI is working jointly with Eirgrid, NIAER and CER to implement capacity is 1,712MW comprising: the SEM.
The principal steps are: establishing a single market operator through a contractual joint venture between SONI and Kilroot - 578MW 520MW coal oil, 58MW gasoil : these Eirgrid: setting up the necessary operational and commercial contracts expire in 2024 but are cancellable by NIAER from interfaces between the two companies in their roles as transmission 2010: system operator in each jurisdiction: and procuring the IT systems Ballylumford - 1,076MW 600MW CCGT, 116MW gasoil, 2 x required to operate the new market.
The capital costs are being 180MW gas HFO : the 600MW contract expires in 2012 split 25% SONI, 75% Eirgrid.
SONI is receiving a rate of return on although PPB has options to extend : the 116MW contract its costs of 6.5% pre tax real.
expires in 2020 but is cancellable by NIAER from 2010 : one of the 180MW contracts expires on 31 October 2007 but is Financial performance extendable to 31 March 2008 at PPBs option : the other During the year PPBs and SONIs combined revenue based on 180MW contract expires in 2012 but is cancellable at PPBs regulated entitlement increased to 485.2m 2005 - 436.3m due option from 2008 : and to increased tariffs as a result of higher fuel costs and increased Coolkeeragh - 58MW gasoil : this contract expires in 2020 but trading income from PPB.
Combined profits from PPB and SONI is cancellable by NIAER from 2010. based on regulated entitlement increased to 9.8m 2005 - 7.2m reflecting increased entitlement earned by PPB under its PPB also has contracts with renewable generators for approximately trading incentive together with the recovery of certain costs which 39MW secured under the Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO Orders were provided for last year.
PPBs contribution from trading has which expire between 2009 and 2013 and a contract for 125MW of been strong this year as the result of operational difficulties at the capacity on the Moyle Interconnector which expires in 2007. independent Coolkeeragh CCGT plant, which are not expected to be repeated.
Kilroot has received consent to install flue gas desulphurisation FGD equipment as a result of the implementation of the Large Operational performance Combustion Plant LCP Directive and the IPPC Directive.
Under the PPBs total units sold increased by 2.4% to 8.5TWh 2005 - terms of its PPA with PPB, Kilroot will be entitled to increase its 8.3TWh.
Units traded to second tier suppliers increased by 17% to availability payment capacity charges to NIE to recover the cost of 3.4TWh 2005 - 2.9TWh primarily arising from the outages FGD equipment which is estimated at 35m.
The increased experienced by the Coolkeeragh CCGT plant described below.
charges will be passed through to Northern Ireland customers.
In April 2005, ESB commissioned a new 414MW CCGT at Once the SEM is established, PPB will no longer sell through the Coolkeeragh in Northern Ireland.
Its impact has been to displace BST and bilateral contracts with second tier suppliers.
Instead, it is imports of energy from Great Britain supplied through the Moyle expected to act as a trader within the SEM, offering its contracted Interconnector.
The new plant enabled the retirement of oil-fired capacity and energy into the pool and being remunerated under the generation capacity at Coolkeeragh that had previously been SEM rules in the same way as other generators.
PPBs obligations contracted to PPB.
The new CCGT has experienced several lengthy under its PPAs will remain and any mismatch between the revenues outages during its first year of operation requiring PPB to purchase it receives from the market and its payments under the contracts will additional energy from Great Britain and the RoI to meet demand.
be funded from PSO charges.
Peak demand for electricity in Northern Ireland in the year ended 31 March 2006 was 1,723MW on 9 January 2006 2005 - 1,663MW.
During the year there were no major loss of supply incidents arising from the non-availability of generating plant.
Operating Review 13 NIE Supply Powerteam Background information Background information NIE Supply acquires bulk supplies of electricity from PPB in order Powerteam is an unregulated power utility contractor specialising in to supply customers who are either not yet eligible for competition the design, construction, commissioning and maintenance of high or who are eligible but have not moved to a second tier supplier.
voltage transmission and distribution power systems, principally for NIE Supply is also responsible for the billing and collection of T&D, but also through Powerteam Electrical Services for industrial customer accounts.
customers in Northern Ireland and electricity companies in Great Britain and the RoI.
When the SEM is introduced, the BST will no longer be available.
It is envisaged that NIE Supply will purchase from the pool and will Financial performance use contracts for differences to hedge its exposure to pool price Powerteam made steady progress during the year increasing its volatility.
The precise contractual arrangements between PPB and profits to 4.6m 2005 - 3.8m due to an increase in internal NIE Supply have yet to be determined.
income and improved margins: its main focus continues to be on costs to T&D.
Financial performance NIE Supplys revenue based on regulated entitlement increased to Operating performance 432.5m 2005 - 424.9m primarily reflecting increased prices During the year external revenues decreased to 22.9m 2005 - associated with rising fuel prices partly offset by a reduction in its 28.5m due to a reduction in the level of work with ESB.
Over the non-domestic customer base due to market opening.
Profits based last three years Powerteams external business has been on regulated entitlement increased to 7.4m 2005 - 6.8m due to underpinned by a framework contract awarded in June 2003 for the lower operating costs and increased incentive income from the refurbishment of ESBs medium voltage network.
This contract is administration of energy efficiency programmes.
Powerteam is developing new revenue streams including further work with ESB, contracts for the Operating performance installation of windfarms in Ireland and overhead line and substation contracts in Great Britain.
KPI 2006 2005 Number Number VP&E 1 Stage 2 complaints to the 9 28 Background information Consumer Council VP&E operates as an integrated energy business comprising generation, through the Huntstown site in the RoI, and competitive 1 subject to formal classification by the Consumer Council.
supply, through Energia, in both Northern Ireland and the RoI.
During the year, the number of Stage 2 complaints reduced to nine Generation 2005 - 28.
In November 2002, VP&E commissioned Huntstown 1, a 343MW CCGT plant on the Huntstown site north of Dublin.
In conjunction NIE Supplys customer numbers increased from 746,000 at with limited recourse financing arrangements put in place in 2002, 31 March 2005 to 760,000 at 31 March 2006 reflecting an increase Huntstown 1 entered into a long-term fuel purchase and energy sale in domestic customers from 703,000 to 718,000 offset by a agreement FPESA with Energia.
Under the FPESA, Huntstown 1 reduction in non-domestic customers from 43,000 to 42,000. bears the operational risk of converting gas to electricity and Energia This reduction reflects the migration of such customers to second assumes the market risk inherent in the purchase of gas and in the tier suppliers.
As part of its price control, NIE Supply has a target to install In July 2005, VP&E started construction of Huntstown 2, a 400MW 175,000 keypad meters in customers premises by March 2007.
CCGT plant, adjacent to Huntstown 1.
The plant is expected to be This pay-as-you-go metering enables customers to budget for their commissioned in autumn 2007 at an estimated cost of 250m.
electricity payments whilst attracting a 2.5% discount to the standard price and providing easy to read consumption information.
During the year, NIE Supply invested 1.7m 2005 - 2.0m in some 17,000 keypad meters bringing the total keypad investment to 12.9m some 170,000 meters at 31 March 2006.
14 Operating Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 Supply Energia is an independent energy supply company, operating in the competitive energy markets in Northern Ireland and the RoI.
The following table provides an overview of the electricity supply markets in which Energia operates: Sites TWh demand Market opening Northern Ireland customers Large energy users 750 2.6 July 1999 - April 2001 Small to medium-sized enterprises 55,000 2.4 April 2004 - March 2005 Domestic 718,000 3.3 July 2007 target 773,750 8.3 RoI customers Large energy users 800 8.0 February 2000 Small to medium-sized enterprises 180,000 8.0 February 2002 - February 2005 Domestic 1,785,0008.4 February 2005 1,965,800 24.4 estimates at 31 March 2006 Financial performance The construction programme for Huntstown 2 is on track for VP&E has delivered a sound performance in the year.
Revenue commissioning in autumn 2007 with capital expenditure of 27m as increased from 272.3m to 381.1m primarily due to volume growth at 31 March 2006.
Civil engineering works have proceeded well and in the RoI, higher prices associated with rising fuel costs and sales the main equipment is due to arrive on site during summer 2006. to gas customers.
Operating profit reduced slightly to 24.1m 2005 - 25.0m.
Supply Operating performance KPIs 2006 2005 Generation TWh TWh Northern Ireland 1.6 1.5 KPI RoI 3.9 3.1 2006 2005 % % Total sales 5.5 4.6 Huntstown 1 availability 93.9 92.5 In Northern Ireland, Energias sales increased from 1.5TWh to 1.6TWh, with customer sites maintained at 3,800 2005 - 3,800 Huntstown 1 has performed well in 2005 06 achieving notwithstanding some pressure on prices as the output from the new availability after both planned and unplanned outages of 93.9% Coolkeeragh CCGT was sold into the market.
The plant responded well to flexible despatch at maintain its current overall level of volume sales in Northern Ireland.
certain periods during the winter, as provided for in its design for open-cycle as well as combined-cycle operation.
In April 2006, In Northern Ireland, Energia can source power from PPB together Huntstown 1 incurred an unplanned outage lasting 19 days to repair with wind power through offtake contracts with windfarm operators damage caused by a failed heat shield in the gas turbine.
This work and imports from Scotland through the Moyle Interconnector.
was successfully completed at the beginning of May.
Energia enters into contracts with customers, on the basis of single or multi-year fixed energy price contracts, with pass through of use At 31 March 2006 Huntstown 1s gas requirements for the seven of system charges and levies to customers.
Contracts are generally month period to October 2006 were c90% hedged.
We await the for the period April to March.
outcome of CERs consultation on tariff-setting mechanisms for calendar year 2007 before taking any decisions on hedging beyond In the RoI, Energia increased its sales from 3.1TWh to 3.9TWh, with October 2006.
At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1s requirements for customer sites increasing to 18,600 2005 - 11,500, primarily CO emission credits were fully covered for the year ending 2 among SMEs.
Energia is growing its customer base to absorb the 31 March 2007 by forward purchase contracts.
Operating Review 15 In the RoI, customer contracts are backed by generation from Other Activities Huntstown 1, imports from Northern Ireland and wholesale products Other profits increased to 3.9m 2005 - 2.5m primarily reflecting made available by ESB.
Energia enters into contracts with profits on the disposal of property.
No further significant property customers on the basis of fixed energy prices with pass through of disposals are expected.
use of system charges and levies, primarily on an annual basis.
The majority of Energias contracts by volume are for the period November to October.
Prices in the competitive market are set by Employees reference to ESBs tariffs regulated by CER.
Energia uses a variety of mechanisms to hedge its power purchase costs.
The Group had 1,503 employees at 31 March 2006 2005 - 1,450 based on continuing operations.
As indicated in the interim results, Energia has experienced pressure on operating margins following the setting of electricity tariffs by CER 1,350 employees are employed in Northern Ireland and 153 in the for calendar year 2006, against a background of high gas prices.
Approximately 71% of employees are union members, and are The effect of this has been partly offset by increased sales and an covered by collective bargaining arrangements.
Employee relations active trading strategy.
The latter involved, inter alia, increased in all businesses are positive and constructive.
purchases of electricity from ESB on a regulated wholesale tariff at times of very high gas prices and additional income from Huntstown The Group aims to align its human resources policies with key 1 when despatched to meet system security in the RoI.
business drivers, which include performance and productivity improvement, cost reduction, business growth and innovation, and During the year, Energia started to supply a number of large providing value to customers.
customers in the RoI with gas, generating revenues of 11m 14m therms : annualised volume is c23m therms.
The majority of These policies are supported by clearly defined values and contracts involve the pass through of gas costs, with Energia behaviours, a robust performance management process, charging an agency fee.
Where fixed priced contracts are entered a strong commitment to management development and into, Energia hedges its gas costs to match the fixed price.
organisational competence built upon appropiate capabilities and skills.
The Group seeks to align employee interests with Renewable energy those of other key stakeholders through an effective approach Since 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland have been to recognition and reward, based on business and individual required to source a proportion of their supply from renewable performance achievements.
Energia currently has 33MW of windfarm capacity under contract and is aiming to negotiate further contracts with windfarm developers, either as offtake arrangements, or through direct investment where projected returns are appropriate.
Windfarm development in Northern Ireland has been slower than expected as a result of planning delays.
In April 2005 the RoI government announced details of a new support mechanism for renewable energy.
Under the mechanism, renewable generators will contract with suppliers at a fixed price and suppliers will benefit from support payments levied across all customers.
Energia is assessing offtake contracts with windfarm developers under this scheme, which only received final approval on 2 May 2006.
