VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:18 Page 04 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY RESOURCES, RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS 04 I AM PLEASED TO INTRODUCE THE OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW, WHICH THIS YEAR IS IN A NEW FORMAT WHICH I HOPE WILL ALLOW YOU TO GAIN A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF OUR BUSINESS.
PAUL LESTER CHIEF EXECUTIVE The groups business The groups operations are organised into the five following business divisions: VT Communications is a leading VT Services Inc. provides a complete range of base operations provider of critical communications and facilities management activities, services in the broadcast, defence, primarily for the US Department of space, emergency services and Defense, operating across the US.
VT Defence provides technical VT Shipbuilding designs and services, logistics and training for all constructs advanced naval vessels for three Armed Services in the UK and the Royal Navy and navies worldwide.
Activities include The divisions activities also include facilities management, operation and the design and manufacture of high maintenance of assets, provision of quality smaller craft and equipment for specialist manpower and supply chain the marine, offshore and aerospace management.
VT Education and Skills provides a wide range of supporting services to schools, LEAs and central government, including careers guidance and provision of vocational work based training.
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:18 Page 05 05 Acquisitions and disposals Business strategy and objectives C During the year the group has continued its strategy of The board manages the group in order to achieve good The VT growing the Education and Skills division, including the levels of growth in shareholder value on a consistent Management Team l-r: completion of two further business acquisitions in the long-term basis.
The board, however, recognises that this Simon Withey, vocational training area.
HCTC Limited was acquired can only be achieved by providing a competitive and high Ken Smith, on 6 January 2006 and Touchstone Learning and Skills quality service to our customers and offering an attractive Matthew Jowett, Simon Tarrant, Limited was acquired on 3 February 2006.
These working environment to our staff.
Paul Lester, acquisitions broaden both the geographical and sector Our group vision clearly outlines our aspirations and Jo Robbins, coverage of the Groups vocational training services.
gives both our internal and external stakeholders an On 8 December 2005, the group acquired the 40% understanding of what we are striving to achieve: minority shareholding of ManTech Inc. in Vosper To be recognised as the number one international ManTech Limited, consolidating its provision of services government services group in government communications.
Underpinning this vision is a set of core values which After the year end the group strengthened its portfolio define the way we operate as an organisation: of support services with the acquisition of four vehicle support businesses from RAC plc on 27 April 2006.
The businesses comprise Lex Transfleet Limited, Lex Defence Limited, Lex Defence Management Limited Passionate about people and RAC Software Solutions.
The activities of these businesses include fleet management and logistics, vehicle provision and disposal, software and support and asset finance.
In line with the groups policy of dispensing with non-core Performance driven businesses, the sale of VT TSS Limited was completed in June 2005.
VT TSS Limited was the last remaining part of the groups marine controls business reported within the shipbuilding division.
Partnering with customers and suppliers VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:18 Page 06 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES CONTINUED CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY RESOURCES, RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS 06 PASSIONATE ABOUT PERFORMANCE DRIVEN PARTNERING WITH PEOPLE CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS The quality of our people We must ensure we VT is recognised as a directly contributes to continue to deliver trusted and reliable partner business success.
excellence to both our that can deliver the We must demonstrate our internal and external specified requirement on commitment to them by customers.
We achieve time and to budget.
enabling them to release this by: We will continue to do their full potential and this and further that Adopting a can do will achieve their goals.
We recognition by: do approach achieve this by: Developing and Being results focused maintaining positive Valuing contribution and Encouraging and relationships teamwork demonstrating Listening to and Effective communication innovation and creativity understanding the needs Empowering people Demonstrating integrity of customers and suppliers Demonstrating Delivering the commitment to personal requirements Encouraging openness development and honesty Sharing the success Promoting teamwork Sharing the success Meeting these objectives is key to achieving the financial years, following the award of pending major PFI PPP and non-financial measures that increase shareholder value.
We are currently targeting three major programmes: Over the past three years we have pursued a consistent strategy.
This falls under four main headings and progress a Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA where we on each is set out below: have been named preferred bidder as part of the AirTanker consortium : 1 To maximise our market share as the leading UK Defence Support Services company.
b Defence Training Rationalisation DTR where our bid was submitted in October 2005: and We anticipate that the UK Support Services defence market will start to flatten out after the next four to five VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:18 Page 07 07 c Military Flying Training System MFTS where our 4 To develop alliances with other defence companies C bid was submitted in August 2005. to increase our involvement in large equipment Simon Withey with programmes.
These are the major programmes in the Rob Munson of the Learning and Military Training and Support Services areas and We have been actively involved in developing alliances Skills Council.
alongside award of these projects, we see a period with other contractors during the year: Recent acquisitions of consolidation.
have confirmed We became a full member of the Aircraft Carrier VT's commitment 2 To diversify our business by growing our involvement Alliance in January 2006 and have an ambition to to the education with other UK government agencies.
gain over 20% of the production workshare on sector.
the programme: Historically we have been reliant on the Ministry of Defence and our strategy has been to target related Signature of a partnering agreement with Lockheed government agencies.
In particular: Martin to cover worldwide flying training: and Our target to grow our Education and Skills FSTA, where we have joined EADS, Thales, Rollsbusiness to over 150m in the medium term has Royce and Cobham as partners on this programme.
been aided by two acquisitions in the period to help The board remains committed to this strategy and consolidate the vocational training services and has confident in its success.
resulted in a business with annual revenues now approaching 100m.
Strategy The extension of the BBC World Service contract VT has pursued this consistent strategy to build the and the acquisition of the minority interest in Vosper business and has made great progress so far.
We have ManTech provides the critical communications achieved well above double digit increases in business with confirmed revenues of close to performance in terms of revenues, profit before taxation 100m per annum for the next five years.
Our focus going forward will remain to win a major share of the UK defence projects, 3 To develop our US Services business to limit our grow our non-defence related support services activities reliance on UK government revenues.
and to further penetrate the US market.
In 2001 we acquired Griffin Services Inc. a base In addition, we have carried out a review of other operations business with revenues of $70m with the government markets in which our skills in PFI, long term aim of growing a business independent of the UK contract management, partnering relationships and government.
Our strategic targets are: through life logistics support are a key requirement.
To grow the base operations business to $500m This has culminated in VT bidding, with experienced in the medium term against which we now have partners, in the waste management market for a a run rate of $360m, a 57% increase year on year.
To improve the margins in the business, given the VT announced on 10 May that exploratory discussions restriction of the current cost plus environment with BAE Systems for a possible joint offer for Babcock margins are increasing towards 3%.
International Group plc had ceased.
Regardless of this, To expand the business to related customers.
VT will continue to consider alternative options to The acquisition of the Cube Corporation, Inc. restructure the UK naval surface ship sector, in line in March 2005 provided a direct relationship with with the governments policy set out in the Defence White NASA as well as opening up the adjacent market Paper published in December 2005, with a clear focus on sectors of training and logistics.
maximising value for its shareholders.
