Financial Review Financial Review: These financial results demonstrate the effectiveness of the operational improvements we have made and the strong underlying cash generation of the Group.
Operating Structure The trading activities of The Weir Group PLC comprise the manufacture of pumps and valves and ancillary equipment for the oil and gas, power generation, mining and general industrial markets the Groups Engineering Products Division : the provision of equipment maintenance, process support and asset management services which constitutes the Engineering Services Division and the specialist design of turnkey engineering projects, the Groups Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division.
The Group also has a number of investments under joint ventures and associates, the most significant of which is the shareholding in Devonport Management Ltd DML, the owner and operator of the Devonport Royal Dockyard, which services, maintains and repairs the UKs nuclear submarine fleet.
The results of these joint ventures and associates are reported separately.
Results overview These financial results demonstrate the operational improvements we have The Group includes a strong portfolio of businesses made and the strong underlying cash generation of the Group.
The Group includes a strong portfolio of businesses in the oil and gas, power generation in the oil and gas, power generation and and mining markets where fundamentals point to sustained future progress.
mining markets where fundamentals point Reported revenue increased by 19% in 2006, from 789.4m to 940.9m to sustained future progress.
with all three divisions achieving growth over 2005.
Buoyant conditions in the mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine markets, together with a full year contribution from Weir Gabbioneta, contributed to the years results.
Favourable exchange benefits from the translation effects of overseas subsidiaries contributed 0.9m to the revenue growth.
Operating profits before exceptional items rose 32% to 87.7m for 2006.
Excluding attributable profits from our joint ventures and associates, the operating margin was 8.2% of revenues against 7.2% last year.
Increased operational leverage, the UK restructuring programmes and the full year effect of the Weir Gabbioneta acquisition benefited Engineering Products.
Together with a stronger performance from Defence, Nuclear and Gas, this offset lower margins in the Engineering Services Division caused by once off restructuring costs which are expected to deliver improved performance in 2007.
Attributable profits, reported on an after tax basis, from our joint ventures and associates contributed 10.5m against 9.2m in 2005.
Net exceptional profits of 15.7m were recognised in the year.
These represent a gain on sale of 6.8m on the former Weir Valves & Controls site in Huddersfield, costs of 1.8m in respect of the previously announced UK restructuring and a one-off gain of 10.7m arising on the implementation of agreed changes to the defined benefits arrangements in our main UK pension scheme.
1 17 7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Net interest costs of 5.5m were 0.9m higher than 2005 as a consequence Defence, Nuclear & Gas of higher average net debt levels following the Gabbioneta acquisition in This division comprises those businesses in the Group where revenue 2005.
The net interest costs were covered 16 times by operating profit is derived from the specialist design of turnkey engineering projects for from continuing operations before exceptional items.
In addition, there the defence, nuclear and gas markets.
The divisions revenue in 2006 was a 4.4m improvement in the net income earned from the Groups increased 57% to 107.2m 2005: 68.3m, with gains in the marine pension schemes reflecting the improved expected return on plan assets.
market as revenue milestones were achieved on a number of major Profit before tax before exceptional items increased 40% on the previous contracts.
Reported profit before tax increased 174% to 102.8m 2005: 37.5m, reflecting the impact of exceptional items in both years.
Joint Ventures & Associates Details of the trading highlights of each of these segments are set The Groups share of profit from its joint ventures and associates out below.
The increased profits from DML reflect the benefits of the improved performance of its pension scheme, which offset the impact of favourable profit taking on a number of key contracts in the Engineering Products prior year.
The full year contribution from the Groups 49% share of its joint venture in Saudi Arabia also contributed to the improved result Input grew 23% to 683.8m with almost 80% being attributable when compared to 2005. to the oil and gas, mining and power generation markets.
We achieved excellent results from Minerals up 19% and Clear Liquid up 32% which combined with 20% growth from Valves & Controls to achieve Taxation the Groups highest ever level of order input.
The tax charge for the year of 19.9m 2005: 13.8m on attributable Revenue on a constant currency basis increased 21% to 608.5m in profits of 76.6m, before exceptional items and excluding joint ventures 2006 2005: 501.4m due to continued strong demand from our core and associates, represents an underlying effective rate of 26% 2005: mining, oil and power markets and good levels of organic growth across 26%.
This differs from a theoretical expected rate of 31.3% 2005: 31.3% the divisions pumps and valves products.
Underlying revenue growth, principally as a consequence of the tax efficient use of capital and the excluding the part year impact of the Weir Gabbioneta acquisition on recognition of historic losses and temporary differences in the United the 2005 comparatives, was 17%.
The impact of foreign currency States.
The underlying tax rate is expected to rise in 2007 as these movements was minimal.
Operating margins before exceptional items as a percentage of revenue The reported tax charge on profits before tax was 22.6m 2005: 13.8m increased to 10.3% against 8.4% in 2005.
Increased revenue in the Minerals reflecting the additional tax due on exceptional items.
There is no tax business, improved performances at the restructured Valves & Controls payable on the gain on sale of the Huddersfield site as a consequence and Clear Liquid operations and the inclusion of Weir Gabbionetas higher of capital losses available for offset.
margin product sales for the full year, all contributed to the improved result.
In accordance with IFRS, earnings from joint ventures and associates are The two UK restructuring programmes are now complete following a reported on an after tax basis, with a tax charge of 3.7m reflected within further charge of 1.8m in 2006 in addition to the 24.7m booked in the these net earnings.
The total cost of 26.5m was 4.5m below the anticipated cost of 31.0m advised at the time of our 2005 restructuring announcement.
In addition, a gain of 6.8m was recognised on the sale of the Earnings and Dividends Huddersfield site.
Earnings per share before exceptional items was 32.4p, an increase of Operating profits before exceptional items increased 49% to 62.6m 38% compared to 2005.
Reported earnings per share, taking account of 2005: 41.9m due to continued strong performances from the Minerals exceptional items and discontinued operations, was 39.4p, an increase of activities, the benefits of restructuring in both Clear Liquid and Valves and 213%.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue increased the full year impact of Weir Gabbioneta on the 2006 results.
to 207.1m as a result of the issue of 1.3m shares during the year to fulfil option exercises.
Engineering Services Subject to shareholder approval, the total dividend for the year is 14.5p, an increase of 10% over last years total of 13.2p.
This represents dividend Input from Engineering Services increased 5% to 236.6m 2005: 225.5m cover being the ratio of earnings per share before exceptional items to with strong growth across the power and oil sectors.
On a constant dividend per share of 2.2 times compared to 1.8 times in 2005.
Going currency basis revenue increased 3% to 225.2m 2005: 218.8m forward, the Group will look to sustain a progressive dividend policy and reflecting both the impact of a number of large one off contracts in 2005 cover of at least 2 times.
and a conscious focus on the most profitable activities and markets.
Operating profits were 12.4m compared to 13.6m in 2005.
This reflected an improvement in the underlying trading performance of Cash flows the division offset by one off costs of 4.4m arising from restructuring activities in the UK, United States and Middle East.
The Group has delivered strong growth in cashflows, with cash generated from operations of 134.5m substantially ahead of 2005 71.3m as a Good progress was made by the Canadian and Australian operations consequence of increased profitability and a 34.9m improvement in net during the year.
In the UK, the rationalisation of the UK Service Centre working capital, despite increased trading volumes.
This improvement network was largely completed and, in the United States, the decision was arose from relative reductions in receivables and inventory levels and taken to close the remaining loss making Service Centres.
In the Middle increased advanced receipts of 10.9m which are expected to unwind East, one off costs were taken in the year to realign overheads and refocus in 2007.
A 7m special contribution was made during the year to reduce the operation on the oil sector.
further the deficit in the Groups UK defined benefit pension plans.
We are encouraged by the prospects for growth within our Services Division.
Our joint ventures in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi made good progress and the restructuring investments made in the United States, UK and Middle East provide a solid foundation for margin progress in the year ahead.
18 Financial Review Retirement Benefits Net capital expenditure was 26.6m 2005: 25.3m reflecting continued investment across the business.
This represents 1.5 times depreciation, The Group has 16 pension plans around the world of which six are defined and we expect to spend around 2 times in 2007.
In addition, proceeds benefit plans, the most significant being the UK and Canadian plans.
from the sale of the Huddersfield site of 8.3m were offset by exceptional All defined benefit plans are closed to new members.
The net retirement cash restructuring costs of 5.8m.
benefits obligation deficit reported at 29 December 2006 was 3.9m 2005: 61.6m.
During the year, the pension plans have benefited from The reduction in net debt resulting from positive cashflows was 56.9m rising equity markets and bond yields, contributing to gains of 33m, which, taken together with a 12.4m positive currency translation effect and a further 7m special contribution was made by the Company on overseas borrowings, resulted in a year end net debt position of 7.1m, into the UK plans.
In addition, the trustees of the main UK plan agreed down from 76.4m in 2005. to the implemented defined benefit changes which further reduced the plan deficit by 10.7m.
Against the background of this improved position, the Group and trustees are undertaking a review of investment strategy Liquidity and Funding with a view to reducing future volatility risk.
Our general policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of debt and equity.
The Groups capital structure is managed centrally with the objective of optimising the returns to shareholders over time, whilst safeguarding Net Assets the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Net assets at 29 December 2006 were 371.9m 2005: 291.0m, with The Group has a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility and Canadian the increase due to the improved profitability of the business and gains dollar credit facilities of $180m, all maturing in 2009.
These have standard from pension fund performance considerably offsetting an adverse foreign covenant and variable rate interest structures and all covenants were met exchange translation effect.
Foreign currency denominated borrowings of 145m equivalent were outstanding under these facilities as at 29 December 2006.
Litigation The maturity profile of committed banking facilities is regularly reviewed and well in advance of their expiry such facilities are extended or replaced There are 52 asbestos related actions outstanding against Group as required.
companies in the United States.
All such actions are robustly defended.
The Group held net cash balances of 139m as at 29 December 2006, of which 98m was held in the UK and the remainder held as operating Critical Accounting Policies funds by Group companies worldwide.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and In addition, the Group has several committed and uncommitted bank the material accounting policies are set out on pages 48 to 53 of this report.
facilities under which advance payment and performance guarantees There have been no changes to the accounting policies adopted in 2005. are issued to support normal contract terms.
Applying accounting policies requires the use of certain judgements, assumptions and estimates.
The most important of these are set out Treasury Management & Policies below.
Further judgements, assumptions and estimates are set out in the financial statements.
The Groups treasury policies seek to reduce financial risk and to ensure adequate controls over treasury activities group-wide.
Treasury activities Long term contracts are largely delegated to the Groups operating companies and are carried Approximately 14% of revenue was derived from long term contracts.
out within this policy framework.
Under treasury policy, all material foreign The timing of revenue and profits recognition in long term contractual exchange exposures are hedged, typically by means of forward contracts arrangements is important and is usually measured by reference to the matching the underlying contract cash flows, to provide certainty of future stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
No speculative transactions are undertaken.
Group assessment necessarily requires a high degree of judgement.
For other Treasury monitors exposures group-wide and reports regularly to support aspects of revenue recognition, our accounting policies allow revenue to Group financial risk management processes.
Although all companies with be recognised only when the risks and rewards of ownership have passed risk exposures undertake hedging transactions, only three companies to the customer.
apply hedge accounting for such transactions for IFRS purposes.
Impairment The Group does not hedge foreign exchange translation exposure.
IFRS requires companies to carry out impairment testing on any assets Further information on financial risk management objectives and policies that show indications of impairment and annually on goodwill and can be found in note 31 on page 85. intangibles that are not subject to amortisation.
This testing involves exercising management judgement about future cashflows and other events which are, by their nature, uncertain.
Exchange Rates Retirement benefits The Group operates in a number of foreign currencies.
The results of The assumptions underlying the calculation of retirement benefits are overseas operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates important and based on independent advice.
Changes in these assumptions for the year.
Net assets are translated at year end rates.
Whilst there was could have a material impact on the measurement of the Groups retirement no material net year on year impact on the income statement in respect benefit obligations.
of revenues and profits, the general strengthening of sterling against major currencies towards the year end resulted in a negative net asset translation effect of 12.8m.
Details of principal exchange rates used are contained in Note 32 on page 85.
Keith Cochrane Finance Director 21 March 2007 19
