Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review To the shareholders of William Hill PLC statements in this OFR that may occur market leader, has the capacity to due to any change in its expectations or operate approximately 630 The statutory requirement to prepare an to reflect events or circumstances after telephone bet capture positions at Operating and Financial Review OFR has the date of this announcement.
call centres in Leeds and Sheffield.
been removed by the Government.
As at 26 December 2006, the However, it is included in this Annual This OFR has been prepared for the Group business had 160,000 active accounts Report as the Board considers it contains as a whole and therefore gives greater 27 December 2005 174,000 : important information which may assist emphasis to those matters, which are Interactive betting includes an shareholders to assess the Companys significant to the Group taken as a whole.
online sportsbook strategy and the potential for that www.
com, arcade games strategy to succeed.
The OFR discusses the following areas: www.
com, an online The Directors are however required to Operations Page 7 casino www.
com provide a Business Review, the contents and online poker site www.
Long term strategy Page 8 of which are set out in the Companies williamhillpoker.
The Group Key performance indicators Page 9 Act.
For convenience the Business Review accepted its first bet via the internet in on page 15 does not repeat information Results for 2006 Page 10 1998 and the casino was launched in already provided within the OFR and Future outlook Page 10 conjunction with Cryptologic Inc at the appropriate cross references to end of 1999.
The offering was Risks and uncertainties Page 11 information in this document are enhanced by the introduction of Resources and relationships Page 11 provided.
As such, some of the arcade games in 2002 and the launch information within the OFR is required Financial review Page 12 of a dedicated poker site in January and some is being provided on a 2003.
Also in 2003, Boss Media AB was voluntary basis.
introduced as a second supplier of Operations casino software, a Euro denominated The OFR includes statements that are, or casino was launched and an integrated may be deemed to be, forward-looking Description of the business sportsbook and casino account was statements.
By their nature, forwardWilliam Hill is a leading provider of fixed offered to customers.
Enhancements in looking statements involve risk and odds bookmaking services, offering odds the interactive offering through uncertainty because they relate to future and taking bets on a wide range of improvements in functionality and events and circumstances.
A number of sporting and other events, as well as product development continue to be factors could cause actual results and offering FOBTs and AWPs in its LBOs and made and in 2006 we increased our developments to differ materially from operating an online casino and poker range of in-running opportunities and those expressed or implied by the room.
The Group also operates two launched additional arcade games.
As such, greyhound stadia situated in the north at 26 December 2006, the business had information in this OFR cannot be relied east of England.
405,000 active accounts 27 December upon as a guide to future performance.
The Group delivers its betting and gaming Forward-looking statements may and products to customers through three Operating and regulatory environment often do differ materially from actual principal channels: Historically, the Groups business has results.
Any forward-looking statements in proven to be less exposed to the Retail comprises a network of over this OFR reflect the Companys view with economic cycle than many other 2,200 outlets throughout the UK and respect to future events as at the date of consumer facing industries.
Consumer Ireland making William Hill one of this document and are subject to risks spending in the UK grew at close to its the two largest operators of LBOs in relating to future events and other risks, long-term trend in 2006, which may have the UK.
The directors believe that the uncertainties and assumptions relating to impacted the Groups financial scale of the network gives William William Hills operations, results of performance.
However this impact cannot Hill a significant competitive operations, strategy and liquidity.
advantage in terms of brand required by law or by the Listing Rules of recognition and allows central costs the Financial Services Authority, the The business is defined and constrained to be spread across a large estate: Company undertakes no obligation by legislation.
Recent legislation publicly to release the results of any Telephone betting, in which the comprises the Gambling Act 2005, which revisions to any forward-looking directors believe that William Hill is a is expected to be fully implemented in 7 September 2007 and establishes a new Competition comparable level of gross profit tax or regulatory regime for the industry.
This inequitable taxation The Group faces competition primarily and the Gambling Commission are of layers on betting exchanges enables from other bookmakers, betting currently formulating and consulting on them to offer better prices than the exchanges, other interactive operators the detailed regulations, conditions, codes traditional bookmaker.
Despite this and, to some extent, the National Lottery.
and standards that it will apply to the lobbying, the UK Government concluded The directors do not believe that the Groups business from September.
The in December 2005 that current taxation Group currently faces significant Group has engaged fully with DCMS and arrangements remain appropriate.
The competition from other participants in the the Gambling Commission during this main impact of this competitive gaming industry, namely casinos, bingo important consultation period.
advantage manifests itself in starting halls and football pools.
However, prices, at which most off-course bets are competition may increase as betting and The Groups businesses are properly placed, and theoretical horseracing gaming products converge, the number licensed in the UK to accept sports and margins, which have been falling in recent of casinos in the UK increases significantly, other bets and in the Netherlands Antilles years, as on-course bookmakers have the new Gambling Act comes into force to operate online casino and poker sites.
been able to hedge their liabilities on and as a result of technological Our approach is that each customer must betting exchanges and reduce the developments.
take responsibility for complying with margins at which they bet.
William Hill has local laws in respect of betting and The Groups principal competitors in the switched hedging activity from the ongaming that differs across jurisdictions.
UK retail market are Ladbrokes and Coral, course market to betting exchanges in an Where considered necessary, the directors with William Hill and Ladbrokes having the attempt to reverse the fall in margins.
obtain independent legal advice largest LBO estates.
Ladbrokes, Coral and concerning the state of betting and the Tote are the Groups chief competitors Long term strategy gaming laws in particular jurisdictions.
in the UK telephone betting market.
In The Group continues to pursue a strategy addition, a number of international Our policy not to accept sports bets from aimed at delivering sustainable earnings telephone operators compete with the customers based in the United States growth and value for shareholders.
The Group from outside the UK.
remained unchanged in 2006 and in key elements of the strategy are to: September 2006, we ceased taking any The Group faces competition in its Continue to enhance traditional gaming transactions from US resident interactive operations from a large earnings and maximise organic customers or those using US registered number of UK owned operators including growth opportunities: credit cards.
Subsequently the Unlawful Ladbrokes, Coral and various betting Internet Gambling Enforcement Act was exchanges, as well as operators based Profitably exploit new platforms: introduced in the US.
overseas that have entered, and continue Capitalise on opportunities from to enter, the interactive market.
Relatively The Group closely monitors the regulatory, fiscal and technological few of these overseas competitors have a development of tax policy by the change: and recognisable or long-established brand Government in relation to betting and Selectively pursue value-enhancing name in the UK.
It seeks to lobby Government to acquisitions.
overseas with online and off-line ensure a fair and equitable approach to The Board monitors performance against competitors that may have more brand the taxation of different forms of the strategy by: recognition than William Hill in certain gambling and various platforms, and to markets.
Establishing an annual plan minimise the likelihood that the regime incorporating strategic objectives and for gross profit tax might be changed to Betting exchanges enable person-to monitoring results against that plan: the detriment of the Group.
person betting with one person acting as layer the role of the traditional Monitoring performance against key The Group in conjunction with other competitors: bookmaker and the other as punter.
The bookmakers continues to make a variety exchange charges a commission on the Evaluating new business of statutory, voluntary and commercial winners profit and gross profit tax is development opportunities against payments to various sporting bodies.
In levied at 15% on all commission and levy, stringent financial criteria and addition, the Group makes commercial if appropriate, is charged at 10% on UK alternative uses of capital: payments through Bookmakers Afternoon horseracing commission.
The layers and Greyhound Services Limited BAGS for Playing an active role in regulatory punters on betting exchanges are not the right to screen pictures from various and fiscal matters which could liable to these charges.
William Hill horse and greyhound racetracks in LBOs.
influence the business: and lobbied strongly against the unfair These issues are discussed further in the Identifying and implementing advantage enjoyed by layers on betting Chief Executive review under the heading technological change which is exchanges, who compete directly with Cost of content.
expected to benefit the business.
traditional bookmakers without paying a 8 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Group seeks returns on capital Key performance indicators invested of 20% on new licences, A comparison of KPIs in the 2006 and 2005 financial years is shown below: 15% on resites and extensions and 10% on refurbishments.
Group KPIs 2006 2005 actual actual To assess the capital structure, the Board focuses on the ratio of net debt to Growth in gross win 1 6% 2% earnings before interest, taxation, Growth in gross profit 1 6% 3% depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, which is managed to ensure an efficient Growth in operating expenses 1 6% 6% balance sheet and is a key driver of overall Net interest expense excl exceptionals 56.8m 41.0m distribution policy.
Interest cover EBIT net finance costs 5.1 6.0 In addition to these financial indicators a Effective tax rate excluding exceptional items number of non-financial indicators are and associate income 29.6% 29.5% also used including numbers of betting slips processed and the number of active Gross win percentage by channel 2 customers in the remote channels.
The OTC 16% 16% Corporate Responsibility Committee also monitors a number of KPIs on behalf of Telephone 9% 9% the Board to ensure that the Group is Interactive sportsbook and arcade 6% 7% meeting its corporate and social Operating margin by channel responsibilities.
This is further discussed in the Corporate Responsibility section of Retail 31% 30% the Annual Report.
Telephone 29% 24% Targets for certain KPIs are set on an annual Interactive 47% 50% basis as part of the Groups operational objectives for the coming year having Average profit per LBO 1 110,000 103,000 regard to historic levels, expected new Average profit per active Interactive customer 152 179 developments and the Groups strategy.
Average profit per active Telephone customer 104 75 In 2006, basic EPS was 45.5 pence.
Growth Net debt EBITDA 3 3.3 3.4 in gross win was just below internal targets while gross profit growth was just 1 Excludes Stanley Retail.
Both gross win 2 Gross win percentage by product is monitored internally but not publicly disclosed.
3 Net debt is before offset of finance fees.
and gross profit exceeded the levels achieved in the comparative period due to The Board sees earnings per share growth performance at a channel and product factors explained in the Chief Executives as the key indicator of the Groups success level, the more important of which are: Review.
Growth in operating expenses was in delivering sustainable earnings growth Gross win percentage by channel: contained within tight targets.
The key Operating margin by channel and by performance indicators KPIs used by the Operating margins were at acceptable product: Board in monitoring earnings per share levels for the Retail and Telephone Average profit per LBO: growth are as follows: businesses but fell below expectations for Average profit per active the Interactive business.
Gross win represents total customer Telephone Interactive customer stakes less customer winnings : With regard to financial structure the where profit is operating profit as Gross profit represents gross win Board believes that the Group should shown in note 2 of the Group less cost of sales : target a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 financial statements and an active times with any excess capital returned to Operating expenses: customer is defined as one who has shareholders through a combination of Interest charges and cover: and placed a bet with their own money in dividends and an ongoing on-market the last 12 months: and Effective tax rate.
share buy-back programme, to the extent Return on incremental capital The Board also utilises a range of that there is no alternative value-added invested for example, in relation to measures designed to determine use of the funds.
investment in the retail estate, the 9 Basic adjusted earnings per share were Results for 2006 45.5 pence, a 24% increase compared to Key financials Gross win Operating profit the pre-exceptional earnings per share in 2006 2005 2006 2005 the comparable period.
Retail WH 584.3 552.7 181.0 166.0 The Group generated net cash inflow from operating activities before financing and Retail Stanley 151.7 70.7 44.9 15.6 tax of 313.9m, an increase of 30% against Total Retail 736.0 623.4 225.9 181.6 the comparable period.
The Group paid 55.4m in net debt service costs, 53.9m Telephone 57.5 53.4 16.7 13.0 in corporation tax, invested a net 67.9m in capital expenditure, paid 70.9m in Interactive 130.5 123.3 61.5 61.2 dividends and spent 178.4m purchasing Other 7.3 7.6 0.6 0.1 its own shares.
horse and greyhound racing industries Current and future development and Future outlook and licence fees incurred in respect of performance FOBTs and AWPs, and various royalty We made significant progress in the year A summary of the key financial results is payments to suppliers of FOBTs and in a number of elements of our strategy set out in the table above and discussed certain services in respect of the online as described in the Chief Executives in this section.
Review including the development of our Growth in gross win has been achieved international business.
Detailed plans Gross profit, representing gross win less through the acquisition of Stanley Retail have been made with our partner Codere GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other costs and growth in the existing Retail, to exploit opportunities in Spain and Italy.
of sales, amounted to 733.9m, an Telephone and Interactive businesses.
The Group plans to invest circa 25m to increase of 16% William Hill excluding Details of performance are described in pursue these opportunities in the short Stanley Retail increased 6% over the more detail in the Chief Executives Review.
term but this amount could be exceeded comparable period.
In the Retail business, key trends include dependant on the speed and nature of Net operating expenses, excluding deregulation and the opportunities that the improvement in relative profitability of exceptional items increased to 445.3m, the Stanley Retail estate compared to the become available in those markets.
an increase of 15% over the comparable LBOs in the old William Hill estate, The Group continues to invest in period William Hill excluding Stanley increased income from FOBTs across the developing each of its businesses to Retail increased 6%.
estate and a flat performance from OTC.
It underpin its future growth prospects.
is believed that OTC business was Associate income represents the Groups It plans to continue to invest circa 50m impacted by cannibalisation of income by share of profits of its associate company, per annum in the retail estate.
FOBTs benefited from improved Satellite Information Services.
Net interest has also earmarked 18m for investment densities and popularity of new products.
payable increased to 56.8m, an increase in 2007 and 2008 in new and improved of 39% against the comparable period Gross win in the Telephone sportsbook technology platforms and core due to the full year effects of the change benefited from the World Cup and some bookmaking systems that will ultimately in financing arrangements arising from high roller activity especially in the second benefit all three channels.
The directors the acquisition of Stanley Retail and the half.
also consider opportunities to acquire significant number of shares repurchased additional good quality LBOs and in early Interactive gross win grew in all areas over during the period.
2007, paid 25m for two small chains the year but the second half in particular comprising 29 LBOs in total.
All Tax on profit on ordinary activities relates was impacted by strong competition primarily to the current year and as the investment and acquisition proposals are following the legislative changes in the US.
evaluated against strict criteria that focus Group earns its profits in the UK is GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other costs calculated at 30% of taxable profits being on return on capital and payback period.
of sale excluding pay-outs to customers the current rate of UK corporation tax.
The As previously discussed, the US has now increased 12% to 197.4m William Hill Groups effective rate of tax before in effect closed its market to offshore excluding Stanley Retail increased 3% to exceptional items and associate income remote gambling, while Asian markets 166.8m and includes gross profit tax, was 29.6%, as compared to 29.5% in 2005. remain difficult to penetrate due to the VAT on FOBTs and AWPs, levies paid to the 10 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 legal environment and restrictions on most notably the horse and A focus on sustainable and profitable payment methods.
greyhound industries: growth and tight management of costs: The amounts required to be paid by 2006 has seen differing approaches taken levies and fees to certain sporting Strong cash flow generation: by countries within Europe with some bodies under various arrangements: increased protectionist activity, in A track record of innovation and particular in France and Germany, and The potential threat represented by profitably exploiting regulatory, fiscal some local liberalisation in Italy and competitors based in the UK and and technological change: and Madrid.
The Group works with its trade overseas: A strong management team and association to push for compliance with The risk that key technology or workforce of over 13,000 trained the EU Treaty by members states and to information systems could fail: employees.
push for a fair and proportionate The impact of weather or other The directors believe that such resources regulatory regime when local laws are factors on the sporting programme: help to secure the Groups position at the being reviewed.
The EU Commission has forefront of the betting and gaming been active in asking various countries to The loss of key personnel: industry and ensure it is well placed to explain how their gambling laws comply The risk of a prolonged economic compete and develop its business in the with EU law.
recession or other geo-political future.
events that may result in a reduction In the coming year we expect to: Our customers and employees are key to of betting activity: Maximise revenues in each channel our success and our Corporate The risk that intermediaries such as through specific initiatives: Responsibility CR section on pages 37 to banks refuse to accept credit and 38 provides further information on our Manage the cost base to ensure debit card transactions connected policies and practices in these areas, as efficient use of resources: with gambling: and well as details of other key CR issues for Manage the effects of the smoking The risk resulting from any inability the Group.
ban: of the Group to service its debt The Group also has a number of key obligations.
Continue to invest in the LBO estate suppliers who provide products and through our ongoing development The Board routinely monitors all the services to the Group.
Two of our most programme: and above risks and appropriate actions are significant relationships in the Retail taken to mitigate the risks or their Make significant progress on key business are with Leisure Link, the major potential adverse consequences.
supplier of FOBTs to our LBOs in Great Executives Review further expands on Britain, and Alphameric, who supply and certain issues that fall into the above maintain the Groups EPOS systems.
SIS, in Risk and uncertainties description of risk factors.
which the Group has a shareholding, is The directors are seeking to build an the main provider of pictures and data increasingly profitable business by Resources and relationships into our LBOs.
The Group also has exploiting its resources and relationships arrangements with the various horse and The Group seeks to exploit a number of and, at the same time, carefully managing assets and resources that are not greyhound tracks via BAGS for the right to the risks to the operation.
necessarily reflected in its financial include: statements including: Our two online casino providers The potential impact of legislative Cryptologic Inc and Boss Media AB are A market leading position in all major changes and the activities of important suppliers to the Interactive betting channels in the UK with an regulators in the UK and overseas on business.
Our bankers are important established international presence: the Groups scope and conduct of providers of funding and financing A long-established and widely operations and ability to accept products as well as providing daily recognised brand, with a strong gambling transactions: banking facilities through our distribution reputation for quality: The potential impact of changes to channels.
An extensive and high quality estate the UK fiscal environment: William Hill operates in a regulated of betting shops which benefit from The effects of the smoking ban to be environment where the potential risks significant sustained investment and enforced in England and Wales in identified previously include adverse ongoing refurbishment and 2007: changes to the regulatory and tax improvements: The ability of the Group to manage regimes.
The Group both on its own and An effective risk management system its bookmaking risk: via trade associations maintains an and significant bookmaking ongoing dialogue with the DCMS and HM The relationship with key suppliers, experience: Treasury as well as with the Gambling 11 Commission.
The Commission and DCMS treasury shares to meet future awards As we are now close to our target are finalising some and consulting on under the Groups various incentive and leverage and as we have current other key regulations, conditions, codes share remuneration schemes.
investment opportunities both and standards that it is anticipated will internationally and in respect of some Financial structure and liquidity apply from September 2007.
It is expected retail bolt-on acquisitions, we currently The Groups acquisition of Stanley Retail that final documentation will be in place estimate that the pace of our rolling share during 2005 required funding and gave by the end of June 2007.
We have buyback programme in 2007 is likely to the Board the opportunity to give further provided, and will continue to provide, slow.
We remain committed to returning consideration to the appropriate financing feedback on various consultation surplus capital to shareholders and our arrangements for the enlarged Group to documents issued by the Commission buyback programme will be kept under achieve an efficient capital structure.
and DCMS and we will analyse the impact regular review.
of finalised documentation on the Groups Accordingly, the Group secured new Adoption of International Financial business.
facilities of 1.2bn with a consortium of Reporting Standards IFRS banks.
600m of the new facilities has The Government and the Commission The Group has prepared its financial been structured as a five-year revolving have identified responsible gambling as a statements for the 52 week period ended credit facility and 600m as a five-year key area of focus and we have a regular 26 December 2006 using accounting term loan.
These facilities were used to dialogue with DCMS, the Commission, policies consistent with IFRS.
fund the acquisition and to repay the GamCare, the Responsibility in Gambling Groups previous bank debt facilities in The main impacts of the IFRS adoption Trust and trade associations in this area.
In June 2006, the Group are set out in note 37 of the Group We also, via relevant trade associations, arranged a further new five-year bank financial statements.
As previously have arrangements for alerting sports facility of 250m.
The directors believe indicated, the impact on Group regulatory bodies to potential sports that these facilities are currently sufficient profitability is negligible and the integrity issues.
to meet the projected working capital adjustment to the balance sheet reflects The Group is a major contributor to the needs of the Group.
primarily timing differences on the horse and greyhound racing industries via recognition of dividends and the The Company has hedged its exposure to the statutory levy and voluntary levy presentation of goodwill, intangible assets interest rates on its floating rate debt by respectively.
entering into a series of interest rate swaps and collars.
As at 31 December In addition to these differences, there is a Financial review 2006, approximately 40% of its forecast further presentational issue related to IFRS Returns to shareholders exposure is fixed via interest rate swaps that impacts the financial information.
The Company paid an interim dividend of reducing to 30% by the end of 2009.
A Sportsbook bets have many of the 7.25 pence per share and the directors further 40% is subject to interest rate characteristics of a derivative transaction have proposed a final dividend of 14.5 collar arrangements as at 31 December as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: pence per share that will bring total 2006, also reducing to 30% by the end of Recognition and Measurementand dividends to 21.75 pence per share, a 19% 2009. consequently the Group has accounted for increase over the amount paid in respect them under the provisions of that The remaining exposure is at floating of the comparable period.
The Board will continue to review level of total dividend corresponds to a this is that the amount recognised as periodically the borrowing and hedging dividend cover ratio of 2.1 times revenue turnover is now the profit and loss arrangements to ensure that they remain 27 December 2005 2.0 times.
The of trading those sportsbook bets rather appropriate to the needs of the Group Company normally aims to pay interim than the amount originally staked.
This is and take account of changes in market and final dividends that represent about quite close to the gross win as previously conditions and business plans.
one third and two thirds, respectively, of disclosed by the Group except for a total dividends.
The Board will target a ratio of net debt to difference in respect of the treatment of EBITDA of approximately 3.5 times to be VAT levied on FOBTs and AWPs.
To prevent The Company obtained a renewed achieved over the medium term.
In July distortions in the year-on-year growth rates authority from shareholders at the Annual 2006, the Board announced with its achieved by the Group, we have continued General Meeting held in May 2006 to buyinterim results that they were increasing to disclose gross win in the Chief Executive back up to 10% of the issued share capital.
the total buy-back programme from the Review and OFR as previously defined.
In 2006, the Company bought back 7% of previously announced target of 200m its opening share capital, all of which was The following is a reconciliation for the 300m, to circa 320m 400m by the cancelled.
The aggregate cost after periods presented between gross win and end of 2007.
By the end of December expenses and stamp duty of the acquired revenue as disclosed in the attached 2006, the Group net debt to EBITDA ratio 7% of issued share capital was 178.4m.
financial statements: was 3.3 and 257.0m had been returned From June 2002, the date of its initial by means of on-market share buy-backs.
public offering to the end of 2006, the Company bought back a total of 17% of 52 weeks 52 weeks its issued share capital inclusive of shares to 26 Dec to 27 Dec bought back into treasury returning 2006 2005 402.5m to shareholders and paid m m dividends totalling a further 248.0m excluding the proposed dividend of 14.5 Gross win 931.3 807.7 pence per share to be paid in April 2007.
VAT on AWPs and FOBTs 37.1 2.4 Approximately 2% of the issued share 12 Revenue 894.2 805.3 capital at the end of 2006 is retained in William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review
