Financial review Overview Finance income and costs 147.0m, shown in note 4, related to the conversion of stores from Safeway to The Chairmans statement and Chief Net costs decreased by 13.2m to 52.2m.
These costs, comprising items Executives operating review describe the The Group generated cash, through trading such as staff uniforms, trolleys and remedial overall operating performance of the Group.
and store disposals, resulting in drawings maintenance, were in addition to costs This review summarises other aspects of the under the Groups revolving credit facility capitalised of 320.4m for items such as Groups financial performance, including being on average 260m lower than in the refrigeration plant and till systems.
A total of financing costs, taxation, dividends and prior year.
In addition, interest capitalised was 220 stores were converted, at an average pensions, and also comments on key higher in the year, at 11.8m 2005: 6.4m, cost per store of 2.8m, 418.9m of which financial policies and procedures.
due to an increased number of new store and was capitalised and 204.5m charged in the other infrastructure projects taking place in income statement.
Conversion to International Other integration costs included Financial Reporting The impact of marking certain financial redundancies associated with the wind-down instruments to fair value, required by IFRS, Standards IFRS of the former Safeway head office and, late in resulted in a net, non-cash, charge of 6.2m This is the first annual report required to be the period, the announced closure of three included in the above total.
The Groups unaudited Safeway depots with the loss of interim results, mailed to shareholders in approximately 2,500 jobs.
Additionally, an Safeway conversion and November 2005, included details of the impairment of the closed depots was taken, impact of the change to IFRS reporting on integration costs to reflect their anticipated realisable values.
the results for both the year ended 30 As shown in the income statement, the An impairment of 103.2m, providing for the January 2005 and the half year to 24 July Group recorded costs associated with the full amount of goodwill arising on the Safeway 2005.
A copy of that announcement is conversion and integration of Safeway of acquisition, has been booked within these available in the Investor Relations section of 374.4m in the year, bringing total costs costs.
This is commented on below.
expensed in the two years since acquisition to 513.6m.
The largest cost in the period of As permitted by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group elected not to adopt to remeasure financial Taxation effective rate assets and liabilities until 30 January 2005.
2006 2005 The Group has also decided to keep its m m published holding company balance sheet Loss profit before taxation 312.9 193.0 under UK GAAP.
Tax at 30% 93.9 57.9 Goodwill impaired 31.0 The impact of IFRS is not material to the Expenses and depreciation not deductible 32.8 53.6 operating result.
The main impacts are on Divestment profits covered by tax reliefs 32.5 23.5 pensions, deferred tax, share-based Total 62.6 88.0 payments, financial instruments and the classification of certain balance sheet items.
Effective tax rate 20.0% 45.6% Details are set out in note 34.
Split as follows: Pre-integration costs 25.4% 33.8% Integration costs 20.9% 17.5% 8 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 Tax is a credit as a result of relief available Included in operating profits are certain against the loss made in the year.
This will payments to the auditors, for non-audit work.
result in recovery of tax paid in prior years.
The ratio of these payments to the audit fee The effective tax rate differs from the is unusually high, reflecting assistance given standard UK rate of 30% because: by them in the year to the Board in reviewing its financial forecasting procedures.
It is the Goodwill impaired is not allowable for tax.
intention of the Board, through strengthening Certain items of expenditure and of the Groups finance function, to ensure that depreciation are not allowable as non-audit fees paid to the auditors return to deductions for tax.
A formal policy setting out appropriate use of the auditors for such work Divestment profits in 2006 are sheltered has been adopted by the Audit Committee.
by capital losses and roll-over relief.
Safeway conversion and integration costs are Earnings per share deductible for tax purposes apart from the Basic earnings per share moved from earnings of 4.14p last year to a loss of 9.46p impairment of goodwill and the Safeway this year.
This is due to the following factors: brand and some smaller sundry amounts.
Pence per This gives rise to a 20.9% tax credit on these share costs 2005:17.5%.
Decrease in profit for the financial year before Safeway conversion and integration costs 7.15 Increase in Safeway conversion and integration costs 6.85 Profit before taxation and Impact of additional shares in issue 0.40 Safeway integration and Overall decrease in basic earnings per share 13.60 conversion costs As highlighted in note 3, in the previous The effect of the exercise of share options and conversion of preference shares during the year year the Group made certain amendments would be to dilute the basic loss per share.
Therefore, in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per to its accounting estimates which resulted in Share, this has been ignored when calculating the diluted earnings per share.
operating profits being 89m higher than they would otherwise have been.
No such Shareholders funds and dividends amendments were made in the year Shareholders funds decreased by 357.3m, from 4,005.9m at 30 January 2005 to under review.
This is due to the following factors: The Group operates a profit share scheme m which is open to all employees subject Retained loss for the financial year 250.3 to certain qualification criteria.
Given the Defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss net of tax 28.2 difficulty in predicting future profitability of Proceeds on the issue of shares 18.3 the Group when the Safeway acquisition was Dividends paid during the year 97.8 announced, Morrisons qualifying employees Other factors 0.7 were guaranteed that for two years ending Overall decrease in shareholders funds during the period 357.3 29 January 2006 their profit share would be maintained at the level paid in the year ended 1 February 2004.
Additionally, as an incentive to Safeway employees to transfer to Morrisons terms and conditions, employees who did transfer were offered the same arrangements.
As a result, profit share amounting to 33.4m was charged in the year 2005: 19.7m a level significantly higher than would have been the case if no guarantee was in place.
No guarantee applies to future years, when profit share will be limited once again to 5% of pre tax profits.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 9 Financial review continued The Groups pension schemes deficits Cash flow, capital Impairment judgements increased in the year, despite good expenditure and net debt concerning assets performance of the schemes assets Despite the loss for the financial period, the The carrying values of assets are required reflecting the general improvement in the Group generated cash from its operations to be tested annually for indications of stockmarket during the period.
The gross and from the Safeway stores disposal impairment, and the Group undertakes this actual return exceeded the expected return programme in the year.
Cash generated from in the second half of the year.
If these tests by over 165.3 million.
This benefit was, operations was 311.0m after adding back indicate that the value in use as measured by however, more than offset by changes in non-cash depreciation of 256.9m and discounted cash flows or the market values financial assumptions, primarily a lower rate working capital benefits of 218.1m.
Cash of individual assets, or appropriate groups of used to discount the schemes liabilities, realised from the sale of stores, and assets, fall below their carrying value, then an resulting in an increase in the gross pension subsidiaries was 460.2m.
The Group concluded the programme of These tests and the judgements required in In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the converting Safeway stores to Morrisons in the performing them and drawing conclusions balance sheet date and the amended UK year, opened 7 new Morrisons stores and also are both complex and, because of the high Companies Act, the proposed final dividend expanded its distribution and manufacturing carrying values of the Groups assets, highly for 2006 has not been reflected in these infrastructures to support the enlarged significant to the financial statements.
160 stores were converted in the Directors consider all relevant factors, both against reserves of 97.8 million represent year, at a capital cost of 320.4m.
This internal and external, in order to determine the final dividend for the year to 30 January programme was more than a change of if there are circumstances or events that 2005 and the interim dividend for the year to signage and brand labels: it also addressed indicate that an impairment may exist.
29 January 2006. maintenance and layout issues to bring the Following the acquisition of Safeway, the In view of the financial performance of the stores to the high standards of the Morrisons Group has undertaken a significant disposal Group during the current financial year, the estate.
The construction of the new stores, programme which has provided support for Directors do not recommend an increase in a new 702,000 square foot distribution facility the fair values ascribed to the assets the final dividend this year.
The Directors in the Midlands, the new head office building, acquired.
Approximately 20 stores remain to therefore propose to maintain the final and the acquisition of new baking facilities be sold, and the Directors are confident that dividend at 3.075 pence per ordinary share.
were the principal other investments, totalling the carrying value of these will be met by Subject to approval at the forthcoming 246.4m.
Additionally, investment took place disposal proceeds.
Annual General Meeting the dividend will be in assets due to open in the future, including paid on 30 May 2006 to shareholders on the new stores and the Groups new head office The Directors have considered carefully the register on 28 April 2006 and will be charged in Bradford.
A total of 190.3m included in current trading and operating performance of to shareholders funds next year.
property, plant and equipment at the balance the Group and its future prospects.
Plans are sheet date was for assets in the course of in place to enhance trading and operational A full reconciliation of the movements in construction.
efficiency in the coming three years, and shareholders funds is given in the notes to using the cash flows anticipated from this the financial statements.
The Groups net debt reduced, marginally, they have concluded that the individual to 1.15bn.
carrying values of stores and other operating assets are supportable either by value in use or market values.
They have also concluded that the overall value of goodwill created on the Safeway acquisition, of 103.2m, is not supportable and should therefore be written off.
The Directors intend to keep this issue under review until such time as the Group has returned to an appropriate level of reported profit.
10 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 Treasury management Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Part of the change programme for the The consolidated defined benefit pension scheme deficit increased by 8.1m from 408.1m at finance function is the creation of a treasury 30 January 2005 to 416.2m at 29 January 2006.
This increase can be analysed as follows: management function.
A Head of Treasury m Assets Liability Total and Taxation, and a Treasury Manager, have At 30 January 2005 1,216.9 1,625.0 408.1 been recruited and will establish suitable Actual return on assets 248.5 248.5 treasury practices and policies that are Interest and service cost charges 143.1 143.1 appropriate for the governance of a listed Actuarial loss 205.6 205.6 company of this size and nature.
Contributions paid into the scheme 105.0 12.9 92.1 Benefits paid 34.6 34.6 Financial instruments and At 29 January 2006 1,535.8 1,952.0 416.2 financial risks associated with debt The Group manages its borrowings and The actual return on assets exceeded the exposure to interest and foreign currency expected return by 165.3m reflecting the on instruments issued by using derivative improvement in the stockmarket during the financial instruments.
The Group finances year and the fact that 78% of scheme assets its operations with a combination of bank were held in equities.
The improvement in the loans and bonds.
asset valuation was more than offset by the actuarial loss in the year of 205.6 million, The foreign currency exposure is always mainly as a result of the rate applied to covered on debt denominated in a foreign discount the pension scheme liabilities currency and during the year the interest decreasing by 0.5%.
exposure has been managed with interest In accordance with advice received from rate swaps converting a portion of the the Groups actuaries, the Directors have Groups fixed rate interest to floating.
approved the adoption of the PA92 C2020 These swaps were in existence at the time mortality table for the purposes of calculating of the Safeway acquisition and relate to the the pension schemes liability that has been risk associated with the bonds acquired included in the financial statements at the through the acquisition of that group.
beginning and the end of the period.
The Directors consider that, statistically, this Credit rating table gives the best indication of the life The Groups bonds, issued by Safeway Ltd, expectancy of pension scheme members, are publicly traded and rated by Moodys taking into account their employment history, who downgraded their rating from Baa1 to lifestyle and job location.
Baa2 in January 2006, and maintain the rating on watch.
In accordance with annual practices, the status and ongoing funding of the Groups defined benefit schemes will be subject to further review in 2006 07.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 11
