Operating and financial review... to deliver growth Results Overview of the business The Group made good progress last year and produced signicantly increased profits.
Revenue grew by 10%, operating margins increased and performance in the year to 6.0% and headcount, including agency staff, grew by over 1,000.
During the year we made substantial investment in initiatives targeted to improve the development and retention of our staff and this is starting to yield benets.
The Metronet Enterprise, however, continues to present challenges and this has impacted the Groups We are confident that the overall profitability.
continued focus on people Outlook The outlook for the Group remains positive and demand for our and our core skills will enable services is strong in all of our markets.
At the end of the year, work in hand was 62% of our budgeted revenue for 2006 07, compared the Group to achieve further to 57% last year.
We are confident that the continued focus on people and our core skills will enable the Group to achieve further profitable growth.
Our business Atkins provides professional, technology-based consultancy and support services.
We are the largest engineering consultancy in the UK, the largest multidisciplinary consultancy in Europe and the fourth largest design rm in the world.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 06 Our core business is helping our clients to plan, design and enable their capital programmes.
We are able to plan all aspects of our clients projects, conducting feasibility studies and impact analyses covering technical, logistical, legal, environmental and financial considerations.
We design systems, infrastructures, processes, buildings and civil structures.
We enable our clients complex programmes by optimising procurement methods and managing supply chains on their behalf, to reduce timescales, cost and risk.
Our greatest asset is our rich diversity of skills.
We employ engineers, architects, surveyors, cost and project managers, planners, management consultants, geologists and experts in information technology, telecommunications and environmental management.
The Groups operations and customers are primarily UK-based, 85% of revenue being derived from UK operations 2005: 87%.
Our most significant overseas businesses are in the Middle East, China and the US.
Our client base covers a range of business sectors.
Approximately 40% of our business is with the UK public sector, 27% with regulated industries and 33% with private sector clients.
We report our activities in seven business segments.
An overview of these businesses is shown on pages 2 and 3.
Fuller details of activities and results by business segment are shown below.
Our business objectives and strategy Our prime business objective is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value.
This requires earnings growth in the long term, combined with strong cash generation.
Our strategy, as outlined last year, is to develop further the Groups identity, drive excellence in all that we do and thus deliver core growth.
During the year we made progress on these strategic objectives.
Keith Clarke Chief Executive WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 07 Operating and financial review continued... to drive our strategy We are committed to driving forward our strategy for growth, by maximising the value of our tremendous expertise and achieving excellence.
Grow WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 08 Identity We apply our wide spectrum of skills to the planning, designing We are also developing a number of overseas design ofces that will and enabling of capital programmes in the built environment the principally provide technical services for UK-based projects.
The first life support systems for society.
As the built environment becomes of these are in the Middle East and India, taking advantage of the increasingly complex, we are helping our clients develop strategies availability of highly qualied people in these regions.
We strive to make the complex simple, delivering value are still at the incubator stage but they have the potential to help to our clients by helping them meet and overcome their challenges.
address certain skills shortages within the UK.
Our identity is based on our tremendous expertise across many disciplines, as illustrated by the case studies shown throughout this We remain committed to improvement of our IT infrastructure to Annual Report.
We deliberately use the word identity rather than provide better and faster systems, enabling our people to concentrate brand the concept encompasses more than logos: identity is on service delivery to our clients.
Last year we invested some 8m in knowing what you are good at and what you want to be better at.
a Group-wide hardware replacement programme, while plans for this year include implementation of technology to improve data sharing We seek to drive excellence by focused investment, applying with clients and suppliers.
technology to increase the effectiveness of our high calibre people and products and hence deliver a higher quality and cost-effective We recently inaugurated the Atkins Excellence Awards, which were service to our clients.
The capabilities of our people are paramount.
designed to recognise and showcase examples of great achievement We seek to recruit the very best people and then train and develop throughout the Group.
This venture has been highly successful, them throughout their careers with Atkins.
During the year we generating over 400 entries from all parts of the organisation.
considerably increased staff training via the ongoing roll-out of a new Group programme and also commenced a talent mobility initiative to As a consequence of enhancing identity and driving excellence, broaden the experience of staff across the Groups business areas.
Our we aim to achieve core growth bringing our diverse skills to bear Management Development Programmes have benefited over 2,000 in business areas that we understand well.
This includes growth in individuals since their inception as we have aimed to engage and existing markets and the extension and improvement of our range enhance our management talent pool.
We are beginning to see the of services, through organic growth geographically and by selective fruits of our revised and improved recruitment programmes.
We are acquisitions in targeted areas.
The acquisition of MSL Engineering also forging relationships with selected universities, in order to foster Limited, a technology-led offshore oil and gas consultant, and Mantix academic excellence, both now and in the future.
These include Group Limited, a specialist programme management consultant, Imperial College London and Craneld and Warwick Universities.
We are recent examples of such targeted investments.
also sponsor Chairs at Greenwich University and the British University in Dubai.
During the year we recruited over 200 new graduates.
Excellence th WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 09 Operating and financial review continued... to create a winning team One of the UKs Top 20 Best Big Companies to Work For in 2006 Sunday Times Best Runner-up, Best Places to Work in IT Computer Weekly Awards 2005 No1.
1 consultancy in: Health & Safety, Defence, Building, Facilities Management, Geotechnics, Public Sector, Rail, Road, Telecoms, Transport Planning, Tunnelling and Waste sectors NCE Consultants File 2006 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 10 1000 Employee numbers up by over 1,000 QS employer of the year Top QS News Awards 2005 Employer of the year 100 Top 100 Graduate Employer The Times Most popular Most popular graduate recruiter in the Built Environment sector Target Awards 2005 Winners RoSPA Order of Distinction 2006 Winner, MCA Management Awards 2006 Winner, APM Project Management Awards 2005 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 11 Operating and financial review continued The Groups management uses a range of performance measures Review of the year to monitor and manage the business.
Certain of these are particularly important in monitoring our progress in generating shareholder value Key performance indicators and are considered key performance indicators KPIs.
Our KPIs measure past performance and also provide information to allow us to manage the business into the future.
Revenue, operating profit, EPS and operating cash ow indicate the volume of work we have done, its profitability and the efficiency with which we have turned operating profits into cash: work in hand measures our secured workload over the next year: staff numbers, total headcount and staff turnover show us how effective we have been in recruiting and retaining our key resource.
KPIs for 2005 06 are shown in the table below, along with prior year comparatives.
% change 2006 2005 in year Financial metrics 1 Revenue 1,052.5m 955.0m 10% 2 Operating profit 62.9m 50.2m 25% 2 Operating margin 6.0% 5.3% 0.7% pts Operating cash ow 111.7m 88.1m 27% All the Groups KPIs have shown 3 Normalised fully diluted EPS 50.1p 42.5p 18% an improvement compared to 4 Work in hand 62% 57% 5% pts People last year.
5 Staff at 31 March 13,651 12,997 5% Total headcount 5 inc. agency staff at 31 March 14,907 13,892 7% 6 Staff turnover 14.1% 15.0% -0.9% pts 1 Revenue excludes the Groups share of revenue from Joint Ventures.
2 The operating profit and margin for 2005 are shown before a goodwill impairment charge of 7.2m.
3 EPS is stated after allowing for the dilutive effect of share options and normalised to exclude any profits or losses from disposals.
EPS for 2005 excludes a goodwill impairment charge of 7.2m.
4 Work in hand is the value of contracted and committed work as at 31 March that is scheduled for the following year, expressed as a percentage of budgeted revenue for the year.
5 Staff numbers and headcount are shown on a full time equivalent FTE basis.
6 Staff turnover is number of staff resignations in the year, expressed as a percentage of average staff numbers.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 12 All the Groups KPIs have shown an improvement compared to last year.
The Groups revenue grew by 10%, with increases in most parts of the business and particularly strong growth in the Design and Engineering Solutions and Middle East and China segments.
Operating profit increased by 25% and the Groups underlying operating margins improved by 0.7% points to 6.0%.
The margin achieved by the Management and Project Services segment increased signicantly and the Asset Management segment returned to profitability.
Margins in the Rail business recovered slightly in the second half of the year, though its full year profits were reduced by Metronet supply chain activities.
The Metronet supply chain also impacted the margin achieved by Design and Engineering Solutions, though its margins remained in excess of 8%, reecting the underlying strength of the business.
The Highways and Transportation segment produced good growth in its higher margin activities.
Operating cash ow in the year was 111.7m, up by 23.6m.
As explained in the Financial performance section below, the Groups good cash ow was largely due to a further reduction in working capital.
Normalised fully diluted EPS grew by 7.6p per share to 50.1p, an increase of 18%.
We express work in hand in terms of the security of the following years budgeted revenue, the most relevant measure for the Group.
At 31 March 2006 we had secured 62% of budgeted revenue for 2006 07, compared with 57% at the previous year-end.
This gives us confidence for the coming year.
Staff numbers and headcount including agency staff increased by 5% and 7% respectively.
Total headcount increased by approximately 1,000, with particularly strong growth in Design and Engineering Solutions and the Middle East.
The recruitment of additional high Top Bottom left Royal Caribbean Kingston-upon-Hull calibre staff is a key part of our strategy and we will continue to We extended and revitalised the Royal As project manager for the Kingston-uponfocus on this area.
The fall in staff turnover from 15.0% to 14.1% Caribbean luxury cruise liner Enchantment Hull CCTV project, Atkins designed and is pleasing and reects the work we have done to improve staff of the Seas, which subsequently won the subsequently managed the installation of ShipPax Award for Outstanding Sundeck.
one of the UKs largest surveillance systems, development and training.
Middle Segmental analysis of revenue, operating profit, work in hand and Copenhagen Central Station Bottom right headcount follows, while staff turnover is discussed further in the We are working with Danish State Railways Airbus on the renovation of Copenhagen Central As one of Airbus UKs six strategic suppliers People section on page 42.
Stations platforms, main concourses, Atkins is supporting Airbus on all its major station approach and associated track.
aircraft development programmes: A380 checkstress, A350 concept work, A400M detailed design and A330 structural enhancement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 13 Operating and financial review continued Design and Engineering Solutions Review of the year Activities and key performance indicators Segmental performance Design and Engineering Solutions delivers high value engineering and innovative design to a wide range of clients in the public, regulated and private sectors.
Overall Atkins has the largest market share in the UK engineering and design consultancy market, being placed at or near the top of the 2006 New Civil Engineer Consultants File rankings in all our main areas of business.
% change Key performance indicators 2006 2005 in year Financial metrics Revenue 286.3m 244.4m 17% Operating profit 23.4m 21.0m 11% Operating margin 8.2% 8.6% -0.4% pts Work in hand 44% 43% 1% pts People Staff at 31 March 3,639 3,339 9% Total headcount inc. agency staff at 31 March 4,026 3,568 13% Highlights in 2006 A strong year with substantial growth.
Revenue increased by 41.9m 17% with operating margins in excess of 8%.
Growth has been driven by our continued focus on design and technical excellence, which has led to strong demand for our services in key target markets.
Market conditions have been generally favourable and the slight reduction in margins was caused by the impact of Metronet supply chain activities.
Staff recruitment has been an important focus over the last year and headcount Our greatest asset is our rich numbers increased by over 450. diversity of skills.
Our Water and Environment division nished the year strongly with the AMP4 capital programme generating an increasing ow of work, notably for Southern Water, United Utilities and Thames Water.
Our four-year framework contract with the Environment Agency is also providing a large workload.
The Geotechnical and Tunnelling division has recently commenced work on the Gautrain Rapid Rail Link, a major infrastructure project in South Africa which is scheduled for completion prior to the 2010 football World Cup.
The Nuclear and Power division has continued to make progress, following the award of substantial long term contracts for AWE and the Carbon Trust, while the first year of our contract with British Energy has also boosted growth.
We have recently been awarded a significant contract, working alongside British Nuclear Group, to provide technical services for the cooling ponds decommissioning project at Trawsfynydd.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 14 Top left Rolls-Royce We are providing technical managed services to Rolls-Royce Submarines, supporting their ongoing commitment to deliver nuclear propulsion systems with improved availability and reduced whole-life costs to the Royal Navys submarine eet.
Top right Barclays Recently appointed as a Tier 1 consultant to Barclays, Atkins is a performance partner managing the provision of asset, estates and project management to the banks UK retail network of over 2,000 properties.
Bottom Shepton Mallet Treatment Centre Thanks to our proactive project management and design innovation, we delivered a high quality, 9.2m Treatment Centre at Shepton Mallet in just ten months, which is now treating 11,000 patients a year and helping cut waiting lists for operations.
Our Aerospace and Defence division continues to ourish, our Our Design division has seen continued growth with satisfactory strong relationships with Airbus and the MoD providing increasing margins, despite the impact of Metronet supply chain activities.
Work on the Future Rapid Effect Successful completion of the latest design phase of the Colchester System FRES project for the MoD is progressing well.
FRES is the Garrison project was a key feature of the year, work being completed largest land systems programme ever undertaken in the UK and will to schedule.
The education sector has generated a solid ow of work, develop a new generation of medium-weight armoured vehicles for particularly through the Building Schools for the Future programme the British Army.
Our role involves technical assessment to enable and our appointment as technical advisor to Partnership for Schools.
the MoD to select contractors.
Our stress engineering project for the We also provide programme management services for the Airbus A380 is well advanced and has been important in raising our governments agship City Academy scheme.
The most significant prole in the aerospace sector.
contract win in the year was our selection by the Olympic Delivery Authority as one of its Tier 1 consultants for the design of the London Demand for our integrity management services in the Oil and Gas Olympic Park and the associated infrastructure.
This represents a sector is strong.
Platform life extensions are lucrative to producers at major multidisciplinary opportunity for the Group.
We have also present and there is a great deal of demand for smart engineering recently been appointed by Essex County Council to provide solutions that can support additional years of production and property services across the county for five years, an endorsement underpin safe operations.
Our capability in this area has been of our capabilities in the local authority property services market.
The strengthened by the recent acquisition of MSL Engineering Limited, division has undertaken a wide range of innovative projects, including which provides additional expertise in offshore engineering and design and architectural services for lengthening Royal Caribbeans contracts in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico.
liner Enchantment of the Seas.
We have recently been awarded a design commission for an even larger liner, the 225,000 ton Genesis, set to be the worlds largest passenger ship.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 15 Operating and financial review continued Design and Engineering Solutions continued Outlook The outlook for Design and Engineering Solutions remains good and the short supply of high quality engineering skills means there is scope for further margin growth.
Demand is strong in all our divisions and at 31 March 2006 we had secured 44% of our budgeted revenue for 2006 07.
This is very satisfactory given that most of the segments workload relates to medium rather than long term projects.
Further growth is dependent on sufficient staff recruitment and this remains a key focus for management.
We aim to supplement increasing staff numbers in the UK with accelerated recruitment into our Bangalore design ofce.
Prospects in the longer term are considered positive in the UK defence, nuclear, healthcare and education markets.
In the defence sector our FRES systems house role leaves us well placed to win further work and we are currently reviewing market opportunities in the light of the recent White Paper on Defence Industrial Strategy.
The nuclear sector presents excellent opportunities over the next few years in relation to the management of licensed sites.
Healthcare and education remain major government priorities.
Growth areas overseas include mass transit, where there are opportunities to provide design services alongside rail engineering.
We have what it takes to come up with ingenious solutions, through a combination of the highly technical and the intensely practical.
Garry Batt Project Manager WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 16 Sustaining best practice for Defras headquarters Our brief was to provide a modern and efficient headquarters for Defra the UK government Department for the Environment, Food & Rural Affairs within the 1920s Nobel House in Westminster.
Co-ordinated from the Atkins design base in Colchester, a multidisciplined team of architects, mechanical, electrical, structural and civil engineers, environmental modelling and acoustics specialists worked together to embrace best practice in sustainability and energy efficiency.
Housing 750 staff, the completed refurbishment has been awarded the UKs highest ever score for its levels of environmental sustainability by BREEAM in the entire scope of the refurbishment.
An Atkins research team has English Nature has named Atkins completed a report supporting environment specialist John Box the sustainable development as one of its six green space of the Chinese city of Wuhan.
champions for his work in urban nature conservation.
In this years Bentley Awards we won Atkins won the prestigious the Excellence Award for Plant Business Achievement IT Award Visualisation using 3D modelling.
Environmental Business Journal Awards 2005 for its waste soil classication tool.
1 for overall reputation in Environmental Consultancy and in the top five for reputation in every other category Environment Business Consultancy Survey 2005.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 17 Driving innovation on Somersets highways As highways service provider to Somerset County Council, Atkins is challenging the conventional means of managing highway maintenance services.
Our approach targeted three key areas: people, process and technology, and harnessed our expertise in every aspect of the highways sector to develop an innovative solution.
Now, from the dedicated Service Management Centre in Taunton, the Atkins solution is delivering radical improvements in health and safety, with a 34% reduction in accidents.
We have also achieved savings to the client of approximately 250,000 per year and lessened the environmental impact of maintenance services by reducing the volume of materials The Service Management Centre in required by 30%.
Taunton has won the Institution of Highways & Transportation Award for Technological Application, and the County Surveyors Societys Award for Information Management Excellence.
Our safety and health management We are the UKs largest consultant systems and high levels of safety roads engineer, the largest transport performance were recognised in 2006 planning consultant and the largest with a RoSPA Gold Award.
Atkins manages, maintains and improves 23,750km of roads in the UK the equivalent of a journey from London to Las Vegas and back.
We have supported the launch of five out of the seven new Regional Control Centres established by the Highways Agency in England.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 18 Operating and financial review continued Highlights in 2006 Highways and Transportation A year of continued growth with signicantly improved margins.
Activities and key performance indicators Operating profit increased by 1.6m to 11.0m 17% with Atkins is the UKs largest provider of highways and transportation operating margins up from 4.5% to 5.1%.
All areas of the business consultancy and related services New Civil Engineer Consultants File, grew, the improved margin being mainly due to increased volumes 2006.
Our principal services are transport planning, design of new and returns from our Transport Solutions division, which has roads and road improvements, development of intelligent transport performed particularly strongly.
systems, management of road maintenance and integrated road network management.
Our client base is largely in the public sector, The Transport Solutions division delivers design services for highway notably local authorities, the Highways Agency HA, the Department infrastructure and transport technology.
Performance in 2005 06 was for Transport DfT and other government bodies.
The New Civil driven by strong demand for intelligent transport systems and design Engineer Consultants File 2006 indicates that our share of the UK services for local authorities.
During the year we secured our place market is approximately 15%.
on several important frameworks for the HA and won a number of % change term commissions for local authorities, notably Birmingham City Key performance indicators 2006 2005 in year Council, and an extension to our key trafc management role with Financial metrics Essex County Council.
Our lead role on the HA Regional Control Revenue 215.4m 206.8m 4% Centre RCC technical framework has been important and we Operating profit 11.0m 9.4m 17% have designed five of the HAs seven RCCs.
The implementation Operating margin 5.1% 4.5% 0.6% pts of the RCCs has enabled the smooth transfer of responsibility for motorway and trunk road management from the police to the HA.
Work in hand 75% 74% 1% pts Contract wins overseas included our appointment as independent People engineer for the A1 motorway DBFO project in Poland, representing Staff at 31 March 2,734 2,641 4% the Polish Motorways Agency and lending banks.
Total headcount inc. agency staff at 31 March 2,891 2,780 4% Weve exceeded the clients expectations on a number of fronts, giving them an award-winning solution to a complex problem.
John Burr Project Director WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 19 Operating and financial review continued Outlook Highways and Transportation Prospects for the Highways and Transportation segment are good.
continued Following the award of our contract with Gloucestershire County Council, visibility of forward workload has slightly improved Our Transport Planning division provides a range of services, including compared to last year, with work in hand at 31 March 2006 strategic advice, trafc engineering, demand forecasting and access representing 75% of budgeted revenue for 2006 07.
The division has continued to grow, driven by a good work opportunities are presently available with a number of key workload from our framework contracts with the HA and the bids currently outstanding.
National Assembly for Wales, along with commissions from other national and local transport authorities.
The provision of high level The longer term outlook remains positive, with the UK governments strategic advice has been an increasingly important area of our stated commitment to improving highway infrastructure being business, key clients including the DfT, the Commission for Integrated supported by current spending plans.
The segment retains potential Transport and regional development agencies.
PPP PFI advisory work for margin growth derived from a shift in the mix of work towards has also grown and we have recently been appointed as lenders higher value planning and design services.
The Transport Innovation trafc and technical advisor on a number of European projects.
Fund TIF will be one of the key growth drivers, with funding available from 2008 and increasing to some 2.5bn per annum by The Highway Services division undertakes road maintenance term 2014.
We are already supporting a number of transport authorities contracts on behalf of the HA and local authorities.
The division had with their TIF bids.
a successful year and we secured extensions to three HA contracts.
Our integrated services contracts have continued to generate a good ow of work, particularly through our award-winning highways partnerships with Northamptonshire and Somerset county councils.
In December 2005 we were appointed by Gloucestershire County Council under a five-year contract to provide integrated highway management and design services to the county.
The contract is extendable to ten years and has an annual value of around 30m, representing a major win for the business.
In April 2006 Cambridgeshire County Council named us as preferred bidder for its integrated highways services contract.
The contract will combine our existing professional services work with design and network management services and will generate annual revenue of approximately 25m over ten years.
Thanks to us, these islands are now at the cutting edge of communications technology and weve made a real difference to peoples lives.
Neil Watt Senior Project Manager WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 20 Bringing broadband to the Western Isles The Connected Communities Broadband Project, led by Highlands and Islands Enterprise, seeks to bring both social and economic benefit to a diverse range of private and public organisations and the 26,500 or so people who live and work in this remote rural part of Scotland.
Atkins was responsible for the overall design and integration of the broadband infrastructure, which comprises an island-wide high capacity microwave radio backbone network, 5.8GHz xed wireless local access technology and a bre optic network in Stornoway which connects the networks main hub site to various public sector buildings in the town.
Today, thanks to the project, more than 40 schools island-wide, five council ofces and 21 NHS sites including the main hospitals in Benbecula and Stornoway are provided with high bandwidth connectivity.
Local businesses and residential subscribers can now experience the benets that next generation broadband internet access can provide.
We are the UKs leading engineer in We are responsible for the entire the telecommunications sector by fee Cable & Wireless UK and Ireland income NCE Consultants File 2006. external bre network all 12,000km of it which supports the companys Bulldog Broadband service.
We are working with the Welsh Development Agency to enable companies at strategic business parks to access the latest broadband technology.
One of the greatest challenges faced by Atkins in the Connecting Communities Broadband initiative was the Western Isles dramatic weather patterns.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 21 Signalling success with Network Rail The combination of specialist skills and multidisciplinary scope that only Atkins can bring to large-scale projects, secures our position at the forefront of rail expertise in the UK.
We have been appointed by Network Rail to undertake a major resignalling and infrastructure upgrade in and around Basingstoke.
This three-year contract represents 65m of fee income and incorporates the design, installation and commissioning of a new control centre and 185 new signals.
The work covers more than 60 miles of line.
The Basingstoke project is part of Network Rails broader programme of works in the south of England, in which we play a significant role.
Atkins is also working on the Port Talbot project, which involves the replacement of 235 signals over 22 miles of line.
Atkins is the UKs leading consultant Atkins is working on the signal safety to the rail sector by fee income systems for Taiwans new High Speed NCE Consultants File 2006.
Rail project between Taipei and Kaohsiung, currently the largest railway construction project in Asia.
Atkins has been awarded the Stagecoach Shefeld Supertram has preliminary design commission for commissioned us to develop a vision South Africas Gautrain Rapid Rail that will transform its 25 vehicles Link a high speed 80km rail system for the benefit of existing and which will be completed in time for future customers.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 22 Operating and financial review continued Highlights in 2006 Rail The results of our Rail segment were signicantly impacted by the performance of the Metronet supply chain.
The rest of the Rail Activities and key performance indicators business, as predicted last year, is now in the process of recovery.
Atkins is the largest rail consultancy operating in the UK.
We provide services covering a wide range of engineering disciplines, including During the year we won contracts for two major signalling schemes signalling, civils, electrication and specialist services in strategic on behalf of Network Rail.
The projects are located in Basingstoke planning, safety, systems integration and asset management.
Atkins and Port Talbot and work commenced on both during the year.
currently has approximately 20% of the rail consultancy market in The Basingstoke project involves the design, installation and the UK, our market share being signicantly greater than that of commissioning of a new control centre and 185 new signals our nearest competitor New Civil Engineer Consultants File, 2006. covering 60 miles of line.
The contract will generate revenue of We also operate in Scandinavia.
The Port Talbot contract has a value % change of approximately 20m and is the largest re-signalling scheme to Key performance indicators 2006 2005 in year be undertaken in Wales during the last 30 years.
These contracts Financial metrics have provided a solid workload and maintained good utilisation Revenue 176.5m 187.6m -6% of staff resources.
Operating profit 2.6m 8.9m -71% Operating margin 1.5% 4.7% -3.2% pts Last year a considerable amount of resource was directed towards Metronets stations delivery programme and this is set to continue.
Work in hand 75% 66% 9% pts Although the Atkins supply chain has delivered a significant People contribution to the project, the overall capital programme Staff at 31 March 1,757 1,735 1% continues to lag behind expectations.
These delays have triggered Total headcount certain cost and delay provisions that are primarily reported within inc. agency staff at 31 March 2,004 1,906 5% the Rail segments results.
Further details are given in the Metronet section below.
Were constantly developing our expertise in rail and applying cutting-edge solutions to benefit our clients.
Steve Hall Project Manager WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 23 Operating and financial review continued Rail continued Outlook Prospects for the Rail business are generally improved compared to the position a year ago.
Work in hand at 31 March 2006 includes 75% of budgeted revenue for 2006 07, compared to 66% last year, the increase being mainly due to the Basingstoke and Port Talbot contracts.
Additionally, Network Rail is due to award a number of significant projects in 2006 07.
Recovery of the stations delivery programme for the Metronet project is a key priority.
The project remains complex and challenging and we continue to commit significant resources to enable a satisfactory outcome for the client.
It is probable that Metronet supply chain activities will continue to impact adversely the Rail segments operating profits in the short term.
The medium term outlook for our Rail business remains positive and the forward spending plans of Network Rail and others indicate that investment in our target markets is set to grow substantially over the next three years.
In order to meet the increasing demand for scarce rail engineering skills, we will continue to invest resources in our design ofce in Sharjah, where headcount of Rail staff has already grown to 130.
Top Nokia Faithful Gould is working with Nokia to In partnership with the Welsh deliver 18 new agship retail stores around the world, starting with a glamorous Assembly government, we are Moscow store which opened in December 2005. responsible for trafc management Middle on the entire Welsh motorway and George Bush Intercontinental Airport Houston trunk road network.
Faithful Gould is providing construction management services to Houston Airport System and Continental Airlines on the 2 $58.2m renovation of 600,000ft of concourse facilities at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston, Texas.
Bottom New Dow Centre Faithful Gould is providing a total project 2 management solution for the 90,000m state-of-the-art research and development facility and global information technology centre operated by Dow in Shanghai, China.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 24 Middle East and China Activities and key performance indicators Our Middle East business provides design and engineering services for buildings, transportation and other infrastructure through our seven ofces in the Gulf and India.
In China we provide planning, urban design, architectural and engineering services to the mainland market and Hong Kong.
% change Key performance indicators 2006 2005 in year Financial metrics Revenue 67.1m 44.0m 53% Operating profit 3.0m 2.1m 43% Operating margin 4.5% 4.8% -0.3% pts Work in hand 78% 52% 26% pts People Staff at 31 March 1,482 1,106 34% Total headcount inc. agency staff at 31 March 1,708 1,347 27% Highlights in 2006 The business generated significant growth and revenue increased by 53%.
Operating margins in the Middle East were good, while in China results were broadly break-even as we continued our investment to grow a sustainable, long term business.
We have generated profitable growth in the Middle East, where headcount is now approaching 1,000.
The high degree of liquidity in the regional economy continues to boost demand, with a particular focus on investment in long term infrastructure.
In China we have invested in additional staff and have expanded our ofce network on the mainland.
In the Middle East we have a particularly strong brand in building Top Islamabad Tower design, as typied by the Bahrain World Trade Centre, which is Inspired by the nearby Himalaya mountains, currently nearing completion.
The building comprises two 2 we have designed a 278,700m mixed-use sail-shaped towers which taper to a height of 240 metres and development in Islamabad, Pakistan, including a 30-storey hotel tower.
support three 29 metre wind turbines.
The turbines will generate a proportion of the towers electricity consumption, making the Bottom left building a model of innovative and sustainable design, as well as MOD MODern Housing Solutions, a Joint a landmark structure.
Venture comprising Atkins, Carillion and Enterprise, is managing the maintenance of accommodation for 40,000 MOD service personnel in the UK.
Bottom right Metropolitan Police The Metropolitan Police Authority has awarded Atkins a ground-breaking 15.4m contract to provide a facilities management information centre to its diverse estate of more than 1,700 London properties.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 25 Operating and financial review continued Outlook Middle East and China Prospects for the Middle East and China business segment are continued very good with 78% of budgeted revenue for 2006 07 secured at 31 March 2006, compared to 52% a year ago.
Hotel design and project management is a major source of work in the Gulf states, due to the regions burgeoning tourist industry.
In the Middle East our strong brand means we are well placed to Project wins in the year included design of the Palm Resort Hotel in benefit from the continuing construction boom, while opportunities Dubai, construction supervision for the Burj Dubai Lake Hotel and in other areas are also emerging.
The transport sector offers great design of the Four Seasons Hotel in Bahrain.
We have also won potential, especially given the need to provide improved design commissions for a number of residential complexes and infrastructure to relieve growing trafc levels in major cities.
Our school campuses in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Qatar.
strategy in the region remains focused on larger, medium and long term contracts that provide a means of sustained growth.
The Middle Easts transportation sector is increasingly a growth area and we have many promising projects and enquiry developments Capital investment in China continues to accelerate, driven strongly in the road and rail sectors.
by the urbanisation process that has so far affected only one third of the population.
The market offers great potential and our In China we have continued to re-invest profits from projects in approach is to concentrate on infrastructure projects in specic new staff and ofces on the mainland, where we now operate areas and to pursue opportunities in Chinas secondary and tertiary from seven locations.
We won a good volume of work last year, cities, which are likely to attract increasing investment.
including the design of a new landmark tower in Tianjing, four airport masterplan commissions and a tourism project for Hainan Island.
Commissions in Hong Kong have included tunnel and wind power projects for China Light and Power and rail safety engineering projects for MTRC and KCRC.
We have dedicated people working on tough challenges for some impressive clients and were seeing great results.
Martin Grant Managing Director, Oil and Gas WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 26 Extending the life of offshore assets Our recent acquisition of MSL Engineering enables us to deploy leading-edge technology to help clients manage their eets of oil and gas installations.
This includes Fleet Management System FMS, a web-based solution that stores and processes the vast amount of data associated with the integrity of oil rigs and other assets, and enables rational and consistent decisions to be made across an entire eet.
We now help BP, ExxonMobil and other major oil companies to ensure asset integrity in the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere in the world.
As oil prices remain high there is increasing benefit to our clients in extending the life of installations, and also in modifying them to accept production from new elds.
Atkins is more strongly positioned than ever to add value in this sector.
Atkins has been providing solutions As European services property 20 of Atkins energy efficiency to the oil & gas sector since 1975. management team for Shell, we have experts are working exclusively for designed a new approach to storage the Carbon Trust, providing practical tank manufacture and installation, advice to businesses on how to reduce reducing installation time by 60%, carbon emissions.
reducing cost and removing significant safety risks.
We have worked on over 1,000 oil 60% of our oil and gas revenues now and gas installations.
come from beyond the North Sea.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 27 Engaging Crewe in school design When Crewe Underwood Infant School was severely re-damaged by vandals, Atkins was given the task of designing a new school for 270 pupils, plus a nursery for 50 infants.
A crche and medical facility were later added to the original brief.
The timescale and budget were very tight, and public scrutiny was particularly intense, given the importance of the school to the local community.
Atkins engaged with teachers, parents and pupils, working to their specication.
We placed great emphasis on providing the children with the best quality interior spaces.
The final budget for the scheme was 2.2m and the project was completed and ready for occupation, including all the external works, within 13 months.
Atkins is responsible for the design We have over 190 education clients Since 2001 Atkins has successfully and build of 16 primary and nursery in 15 countries.
completed over 800 capital projects schools in the South Lanarkshire in schools.
Atkins report Do buildings matter?
In the last two years Atkins has been established the Group at the involved in the design and delivery forefront of the debate on the of more than 62 schools valued at role of school design in educational over 200m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 28 Operating and financial review continued Highlights in 2006 Management and Project Services A good year with substantially improved margins.
Activities and key performance indicators Revenue grew by 19.7m 13% and margins increased by The Management and Project Services segment provides management 2.1% points to 8.1%, with growth across the segments range and IT consultancy and programme, project and cost management of services.
Atkins is one of the largest project managers and cost consultants worldwide Building Magazine and one of the 20 largest The Management Consultants division performed well last year, management consultants operating in the UK Management generating significant revenue growth while maintaining good Consultancies Association.
Growth has been driven by increased demand for our programme and project management services, along with a number % change of significant contract wins.
The largest of these was the award of Key performance indicators 2006 2005 in year the Programme and Project Support Ofce contract for the Financial metrics Government Communications Headquarters GCHQ.
The contract Revenue 171.9m 152.2m 13% is for five years, extendable to seven, and confirms the success of Operating profit 13.9m 9.2m 51% our long term relationship with this important organisation.
Operating margin 8.1% 6.0% 2.1% pts Work in hand 39% 50% -11% pts We were awarded a major commission for Shell to provide programme management services for its capital investment People programme, covering retail outlets in nine European countries.
Staff at 31 March 2,062 1,957 5% New framework contracts and extensions have generated a Total headcount substantial workload, notably from IBM, BAA and the Learning inc. agency staff at 31 March 2,146 2,044 5% and Skills Council.
Demand for IT consultancy has been strong and we are working with the Department for Education and Skills on Excluding a goodwill impairment charge of 7.2m in 2005. the Information Sharing Index which will support governments work in co-ordinating childrens services.
Atkins people listened to what we wanted, and worked with the community to give us a great new school.
Felicity Jane Tomlinson Head Teacher WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 29 Operating and financial review continued management framework contract.
We have continued to support Management and Project Services major projects undertaken by other parts of the Group, particularly continued in the Middle East.
Our Faithful Gould project management and cost consultancy The performance of our US operation has improved signicantly and division had an excellent year with significant revenue growth at the business grew strongly in the second half of the year.
Growth in much improved margins.
Margin growth has been driven largely the industrial sector has been particularly encouraging and we have by selective bidding and improved utilisation of staff.
won major commissions for BP, Intel and Amgen.
We have also won substantial contracts in the leisure and airport sectors, including a Revenues derived from the public sector have continued to grow, five-year commercial management contract for the redevelopment particularly in education, through the Building Schools for the of John Wayne International Airport in California.
Future initiative, and in health from strategic consultancy for Welsh Health Estates and primary care trusts.
Provision of strategic cost Outlook and project management services to the PPP PFI sector has been Work in hand at 31 March 2006 included 39% of budgeted another growth area.
revenue for 2006 07, compared to 50% last year.
This fall is largely explained by the timing of award of work under certain long term In the transportation sector we have provided consultancy services contracts and is not a concern.
relating to the new West London Tram scheme, while regeneration projects have included work relating to the redevelopment of the The management consultancy market appears set for a period of Longbridge plant for St Modwen.
We have maintained a strong further growth and we are well positioned to benefit from this trend.
presence in the banking sector, including project and cost In the public sector the drive is continuing for organisational change consultancy work for Royal Bank of Scotland.
Commissions from and efficiencies, an area where we have niche skills and experience.
the regulated sector have also increased and we have been Private sector demand is also strong and we are increasingly appointed by the Environment Agency under a five-year cost targeting certain growth sectors, including heavy industry.
The acquisition of Mantix Group Limited on 21 June 2006 has enhanced the capabilities of our Management Consultants division, especially in the area of programme management.
In the coming year the business will be integrated into our existing operations.
Prospects for our Faithful Gould division remain positive, with strong demand and an expanding UK client base.
New opportunities for 2006 07 include redevelopment projects for main line railway stations, consultancy on the proposed expansion of a number of regional airports and a range of health and education projects.
In the US, client representative work in the transport, manufacturing and property sectors offers good opportunities.
Our expertise means that an entire island community now has a secure future.
Kristina Moriarty Managing Consultant WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 30 Safe landings ahead for St Helena Located far off the shipping lanes, the tiny island community of St Helena is truly remote.
Even visits by ship are infrequent, with the inhabitants relying on the RMS St Helena to provide essential supplies from the African mainland and the UK.
With this service due to be retired in 2010, a viable alternative had to be found.
Only Atkins was able to provide a practical solution.
We deployed consultancy teams with expertise ranging from aviation, civil and geotechnical engineering to environmentalists, researchers, social scientists and economists.
A design for the islands first-ever airport, approved by the UK government and the people of St Helena.
The airport, which is to be ready to accept ights in 2010, will be located on Prosperous Bay Plain on the eastern coast, and will incorporate a 1,950m runway, sufficient to support Boeing 737 jets carrying supplies, islanders and tourists.
Faithful Gould has won major work Atkins won its fourth major airport with John Wayne International Airport design competition in China, for the in Santa Ana, California.
We will extensive development of Xian provide master project estimating and Xianyang International.
master scheduling services for the planning, design, and construction of the new terminal.
Faithful Gould has completed a commission to provide consultancy services to Heathrow Airport Fuel Company HAFCo for the construction of aviation fuel storage facilities at London Heathrow Airport.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 31 Investing in our industrys future Our commitment to employee Atkins was ranked 11th in the 20 Best development has seen three of our Big Companies to Work For 2006 by Atkins is linking with the University of Greenwich in London, people recently start MBA courses The Sunday Times.
The deal forms part at Imperial Colleges top ranking Tanaka Business School.
of our commitment to ensuring that tomorrows engineering challenges can be met by skilled graduates.
We will also offer work placements and graduate employment opportunities to university students in an initiative to recruit new talent We were the highest climber in the Atkins is supporting art students at and increase the diversity of our workforce.
Atkins has most recent Times Top Graduate Birminghams renowned Gallery 37, extensive experience of delivering complex regeneration and Employers survey.
leading to an exhibition of original development initiatives in the capital, including those in the art works, imaginative prints and a Greenwich area.
We were the lead consultant for the major spectacular lighting project at its project to regenerate the Greenwich Peninsula: assisted in ofces in the city.
the masterplanning of the development of London City Airport: and devised the regeneration framework for the A poll of 20,000 students and recent Leamouth area of East London.
Baroness Blackstone, graduates won us a prestigious Target Vice-Chancellor of the University of Greenwich, says: I am National Graduate Award as the sure that this initiative will bring great benets to Atkins most popular graduate employer and the University of Greenwich.
in the built environment sector.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 32 Operating and financial review continued Highlights in 2006 Asset Management A much better result with some significant contract wins.
Activities and key performance indicators Financial performance recovered markedly during the year, though Asset Management provides independent property asset the large swing in operating results is partly due to the onerous management services.
The business focuses on providing top quality contract provisions of 3.9m made in 2004 05.
Temporary extensions facilities management FM services to the MoD and selected private to certain MoD contracts also contributed a non-recurring benefit.
Atkins is well positioned in the market as the largest independent management company for clients seeking property asset We won two major five-year managing agent contracts during management solutions New Civil Engineer Consultants File, 2006. the year, for the Metropolitan Police Service and HBOS.
These % change successes have been driven by our investment in improved IT Key performance indicators 2006 2005 in year systems and skills.
The contracts supplement our existing client Financial metrics base of large organisations.
Revenue 61.5m 58.6m 5% Operating profit 4.0m 4.7 m n a During the year we were awarded interim extensions to our Operating margin 6.5% 8.0 % 14.5% pts local MoD Defence Estates contracts.
These contracts have now concluded and the associated staff have transferred under TUPE, Work in hand 96% 53% 43% pts with a consequent reduction in headcount.
Our Defence Housing People Prime contract has successfully mobilised and will provide work over Staff at 31 March 628 890 -29% seven years, while the Colchester Garrison PFI project is performing Total headcount as planned.
We will be undertaking the work on the Defence inc. agency staff at 31 March 730 892 -18% Housing Prime contract within a Joint Venture and its results will therefore be excluded from the segments operating profit.
The performance of our managing contractor operations has stabilised over the last year.
Outlook Our managing agent contract wins mean that 96% of budgeted revenue for 2006 07 had been secured at 31 March 2006.
This also demonstrates the markets demand for our integrated estates, FM and project management services.
In particular, the financial services, retail, leisure and public sectors offer further opportunities.
Were working with Atkins to meet tomorrows engineering challenges.
Baroness Blackstone Vice-Chancellor, University of Greenwich WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 33 Operating and financial review continued Lambert Smith Hampton Equity Investments Activities LSH operates independently under its own brand and provides a Activities and key performance indicators broad range of commercial property consultancy and transactional The Equity Investments segment principally comprises Lambert Smith services through its extensive ofce network in the UK and Ireland.
Hampton LSH and the Groups interest in PPP PFI Joint Ventures, LSH is ranked by the Estates Gazette as the UKs Most Active Agent including Metronet.
and as the top national agent in the ofce agency and industrial % change agency sectors.
Key performance indicators 2006 2005 in year Financial metrics Highlights in 2006 Revenue 73.8m 61.4m 20% A good year with significant growth.
Operating profit 5.0m 4.3m 16% Operating margin 6.8% 7.0% -0.2% pts Revenue grew strongly, operating margins being maintained at a similar level despite non-recurring costs relating to the relocation People of our London operations to a single ofce.
Market conditions Staff at 31 March 887 874 1% have been favourable and good results have been achieved across Total headcount the business.
inc. agency staff at 31 March 887 874 1% The Investment division performed particularly strongly, with 2.2bn of investment transactions concluded in the year.
This included the purchase for 145m of 52 properties let to Booker Cash and Carry and the acquisition for 290m of the Alpha Portfolio of 35 properties, both on behalf of the Scarborough Group.
The Industrial Agency division transacted nearly 20m sq ft of space in the year, including acting for Tesco in two of the largest distribution market transactions as well as the largest letting within the M25 in the year.
Demand remains good for our consultancy services, including new estates management contracts for AXA UK and Northamptonshire County Council and a strategic property review for Buckinghamshire County Council.
Outlook The general outlook for property markets is positive.
The investment market is strong, while occupier demand is also expected to increase, led by the ofce sector.
Although the retail sector is vulnerable to consumer spending levels, related demand for warehousing space remains good, particularly large distribution centres.
LSHs approach is to target growth in our range of services and national network.
Our increasing strength in consultancy services will be an important factor in generating long term growth.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 34 Metronet The table below summarises the Groups financial results relating to its Metronet, in which Atkins has a 20% stake, is a consortium of five entire involvement in the Metronet project.
This comprises the Groups companies responsible for upgrading, maintaining and running two share of the results of the Metronet and Trans4m Joint Ventures plus thirds of the London Underground network under the framework of the operating result of the Atkins supply chain, and is collectively a 30-year Public Private Partnership PPP.
As part of that capital referred to as the Metronet Enterprise.
programme, Metronet has contracted with Trans4m, a company in which Atkins has a 25% stake, to deliver the required improvements These results show that the inconsistent operational performance, to stations and certain civil assets.
In turn Trans4m has contracted with penalties and cost overruns associated with the delays to the capital Atkins for some components of that work.
programme, principally the modernisation of stations, have affected the Groups return from the Metronet project at all levels.
The In June 2005, Metronets management team was changed and working of the PPP contract acts as an effective incentive to Keith Clarke was appointed as non-executive Chairman of Metronet improve performance.
on behalf of all of the shareholders, to enable a smooth transition and to improve the performance of both the Board and management.
The new Trans4m management team has re-evaluated the programmes In addition to strengthening Metronet and Trans4ms senior and resources needed to deliver the contracted station improvements.
management team, the Trans4m management team has been This review has led to additional provisions and, due to the pain gain integrated into Metronet to address the initial weaknesses of the share mechanism throughout the tied supply chain, to an adverse supply chain.
Atkins continues to support the Metronet management impact on Atkins results throughout the Metronet Enterprise.
team in their efforts through the secondment of a number of our own senior staff to the project.
Atkins currently has over 600 people Outlook committed to this project.
The recovery of the efficiency of the capital programme and the improvement of the operational performance of the Underground The operational performance of the lines for which Metronet is remain crucial to the eventual success and realisation of value from responsible remains inconsistent and behind Metronets original the project.
Whilst some progress has been made over the last year, expectations, but it is improving.
it will take time to evidence any significant recovery.
It is essential for Metronet and its supply chain to improve their delivery to ensure that In terms of the capital programme, improvements to trains and track the Groups returns from Metronet are not to be further impacted are now being delivered.
However, the stations renewal programme at all levels, including the final value of the investment.
Only 14 stations had been completed by 31 March 2006, compared to the 35 contracted.
This is being Atkins involvement in the turnaround of the Metronet Enterprise addressed and measures have been put in place to recover the remains critical and we are committed to ensuring its success.
Atkins role in the project primarily relates to the design of renewal and refurbishment of station infrastructure and civil asset design, inspection and assessment.
So far we are approximately half way through our stations design programme.
There have been issues with obtaining final design approvals which have impacted the overall delivery of the station improvements.
The civils programme is progressing to plan.
Pro forma Income IFRS IFRS UK GAAP statement 2006 2005 2005 component m m m Metronet PPP share of profit before tax Share of JV result 10.8 13.1 10.0 Cost of letters of credit Finance cost 2.0 2.6 2.6 8.8 10.5 7.4 Supply chain: Trans4m share of profit before tax Share of JV result 1.5 2.0 2.0 Business segments Operating profit 2.7 2.5 2.5 Metronet Enterprise 4.6 15.0 11.9 As permitted by IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS, the Group has elected to adopt IAS 32, Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, prospectively from 1 April 2005.
The pro forma gures provided here show comparatives had the Group adopted IAS 32, IAS 39 and the IFRIC draft interpretations regarding PPP PFI concessions for the year ended 31 March 2005.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 35 Operating and financial review continued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Review of the year The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 are the Groups first prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Conversion to IFRS is Financial performance an accounting change which has no impact on the Groups financial performance, risk prole or ability to generate cash.
The main areas of impact of IFRS on reporting of the Groups results and financial position are as follows: Accounting for pension costs under IAS 19, Employee benets.
The cessation of goodwill amortisation under IFRS 3, Business combinations.
Changes to accounting for assets constructed or managed under PPP PFI concessions, though at present only draft guidance is available.
The guidance, issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, requires such assets to be classied as financial assets where the grantor has primary responsibility to pay the operator for concession services.
This accounting treatment has been adopted by all Joint Ventures in which the Group has an interest.
However, this is potentially subject to change following completion of the consultation process on IFRICs proposals.
The process remains ongoing and we will continue to monitor developments.
The recognition of dividends in the income statement only when they are declared and approved.
Measurement of the cost of share-based payments granted after November 2002 on a fair value basis under IFRS 2, Share-based payments.
Changes to the format of financial statements, notably regarding the reporting of Joint Ventures and segmental disclosures.
Additional information is given in note 41 to the financial statements, which includes reconciliations from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP to IFRS.
Revenue Total revenue for the year ended 31 March 2006 was 1,411.0m 2005: 1,157.3m.
Excluding our interests in Joint Ventures, revenue amounted to 1,052.5m 2005: 955.0m, an increase of 10%.
Revenue growth has primarily been driven by greater staff numbers, with total headcount including agency staff increasing by 7% over the year.
The majority of revenue growth was derived from higher margin activities, in line with the objectives we stated last year.
We will continue to pursue growth opportunities only where satisfactory margins are achievable.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 36 Operating profit Earnings per share EPS Operating profit for the year was 62.9m, an increase of 12.7m Basic EPS was 57.0p 2005: 39.3p.
Normalised fully diluted EPS was 25% excluding the goodwill impairment charge of 7.2m in 2005.
50.1p 2005: 42.5p adjusted to exclude goodwill impairment of On a similar basis, operating margins rose from 5.3% to 6.0%.
7.2m in that year, an increase of 18%.
Normalised EPS is considered to be a more representative measure of underlying trading.
Further Excluding Metronet supply chain activities, most of our businesses details are given in note 10 to the financial statements.
have generated growth in underlying operating margins and have further scope for margin improvement.
Cash ow Net funds increased by 54.9m to 176.6m.
Net cash inow from Joint Ventures operating activities was 111.7m 2005: 88.1m.
A summary The Groups share of pre-tax profits from Joint Ventures, excluding reconciliation between operating profit and operating cash ow disposals, was 11.5m 2005: 14.8m.
The Groups most significant is shown below: Joint Venture is Metronet, which is discussed in the Segmental 2006 2005 performance section above.
After tax, profits from Joint Ventures, m m excluding disposals, amounted to 7.9m 2005: 9.9m.
Operating profit 62.9 43.0 Depreciation and amortisation 24.3 27.8 In November 2005 the Group disposed of its 25% interest in South Impairment of goodwill 7.2 Manchester Healthcare Holdings Limited for a cash consideration of Decrease in working capital 40.1 12.3 7.8m, resulting in a profit on disposal of 5.7m.
In December 2005 Decrease in pension balances 18.4 5.9 the Group disposed of its 42.5% interest in NewSchools Penweddig Other items 2.8 3.7 Holdings Limited for a cash consideration of 1.4m, resulting in a profit on disposal of 0.7m.
These disposals were in line with the Cash generated from operations 111.7 88.1 Groups policy of recycling capital invested in mature PFI investments at the appropriate time.
Strong operating cash ow was driven by a further working capital reduction of 40.1m in the year.
This included the benefit of advance Net finance cost payments from several of our large clients.
Last year the Group made Net finance cost reduced by 0.6m to 3.3m.
The cost of Metronet additional cash contributions to the principal dened benefit pension Standby Letters of Credit reduced by 0.6m following equity scheme of 20.0m 2005: 8.6m.
The Group anticipates making payments to the Joint Venture, while the finance cost on retirement accelerated contributions on a continuing basis.
Further details are benefit liabilities increased by 1.3m.
Finance income increased by given below.
1.1m due the Groups improving cash position and should continue to rise next year.
Tax paid in the year was 10.9m 2005: 18.3m, the reduction being due to the current tax benefit of the higher level of pension contributions Taxation noted above.
The Group made scheduled equity and loan injections The Groups effective taxation rate for the year ended 31 March 2006 amounting to 11.2m into the Metronet PPP companies during the was 23.9% 2005: 26.6%.
The effective taxation rate on normalised year 2005: 11.1m.
The Group is committed to making loan capital profit was 29.6% 2005: 31.4% adjusted to exclude goodwill payments to the Metronet PPP companies amounting to 37.3m over impairment of 7.2m in that year.
The normalised effective rate has the next three years.
Cash payments relating to acquisitions in the year, reduced due to a greater contribution from our overseas operations in principally MSL, amounted to 4.9m.
Further details are given below.
The tax charge on disposal of Joint Ventures was Net capital expenditure in the year, including the purchase of computer 0.5m 2005: 0.3m.
software licences, amounted to 28.2m 2005: 17.9m, the majority of the increase relating to IT infrastructure.
The level of capital expenditure is likely to increase approximately in line with growth in staff numbers over the next few years.
The cash position benefited from the sale of the Joint Venture investments described above.
The Group is well placed to maintain robust cash ows and generate sufficient funds to enable the anticipated rate of growth.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 37 Operating and financial review continued Pensions IAS 19 valuation and accounting treatment Funding The Group assesses pension scheme funding with reference to The latest actuarial valuation of the Atkins Pension Plan was carried actuarial valuations but for reporting purposes uses IAS 19. out as at 1 April 2004 and indicated that the scheme had an actuarial deficit of 69m.
The next actuarial valuation of the Atkins Pension Plan Under IAS 19, the Group recognised a post-tax retirement benefit will take place as at 1 April 2007 and it is likely that the actuarial liability liability of 210.0m at 31 March 2006 2005: 191.9m.
The Group will increase due to changes in longevity and other assumptions.
has adopted early the proposed amendment to IAS 19 and has recognised through equity a post-tax actuarial loss of 26.4m for the In 2004 the Group reached agreement with its employees and the year ended 31 March 2006 2005: 15.9m.
The increased actuarial trustees of the scheme regarding the funding of the actuarial deficit loss is principally due to changes in the valuation assumptions relating so that it should be eliminated over a 15-year period.
In order to to the longevity of scheme members.
reduce the deficit more rapidly, the Group announced in 2005 that it intended to accelerate the payment of its contributions.
Accelerated The assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation are detailed in note 26 contributions amounting to 8.6m were made in the year ended to the financial statements.
The sensitivities regarding the key 31 March 2005.
During the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group assumptions relating to the Atkins Pension Plan are shown below.
increased the level of these additional contributions, making Indicative effect on the accelerated contributions of 20.0m.
Assumption Change in assumption schemes liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease Decrease increase The Group is focused on substantially reducing the pension scheme by 0.5% by 10.0% deficit and anticipates making accelerated deficit funding contributions of at least a further 20.0m in the year ending 31 March 2007.
Rate of ination Increase decrease Increase decrease by 0.5% by 6.5% Charges Real rate of Increase decrease Increase decrease The Group accounts for pension costs under IAS 19, Employee increase in salaries by 0.5% by 2.0% benets.
The dened benefit total service cost for the year was Longevity Increase by 1 year Increase by 4.0% 18.1m 2005: 19.8m, the reduction reecting the increase in employee contributions and the reducing membership of the scheme.
The net finance cost for the year was 6.7m 2005: 5.4m.
Acquisitions The charge relating to dened contribution schemes amounted to On 31 March 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital 9.0m 2005: 10.1m.
of MSL Engineering Limited and MSL Services Corp, for a combined consideration of 5.8m, of which 4.6m was paid in cash with the The overall charge for pensions for the year ending 31 March 2007 will remainder deferred.
During the year the Group also acquired 100% be broadly as last year.
However, due to the lower discount rate of 5.0% of the share capital of NovaPlan Holding AB for 0.3m in cash.
at 31 March 2006 31 March 2005: 5.4%, the current service cost Further details of these transactions are given in note 38 to the will be higher, with a corresponding reduction in the interest charge.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 38 Events after the balance sheet date Interest rate risk and liquidity risk On 21 June 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital The Group funds its ongoing activities through cash generated of Mantix Group Limited, a specialist programme management from its operations and, where necessary, bank borrowings and consultancy, for a net cash consideration of 8.8m.
The Group has banking facilities which include cash facilities and bonding lines, as well as a Letter of Credit facility in Capital structure relation to the ongoing equity obligations of the Groups PPP PFI The Group had 104.5m fully paid ordinary shares in issue at projects.
The Group accepts some interest rate risk and any loans 31 March 2006 2005: 104.5m, full details of which are shown drawn under the banking facilities are at oating rates.
At 31 March in note 28 to the financial statements.
Net funds at 31 March 2006 2006, the amount undrawn under the Groups credit lines was were 176.6m 2005: 121.7m, which comprised cash balances 36.7m 2005: 49.5m.
and current investments of 218.2m 2005: 145.8m less bank loans and finance lease creditors of 41.6m 2005: 24.1m.
On 21 June 2006, the Group signed new five-year committed banking facilities of 100m with its principal lending banks.
These facilities The adoption of IAS 19, Employee benets, has resulted in the Group include borrowing and Letter of Credit facilities.
reporting an equity shareholders deficit of 36.1m 2005: 53.4m.
However, the Groups corporate structure enables it to continue paying dividends.
Treasury policies and objectives The Groups Treasury function manages and monitors external funding and investment requirements and financial risks in support of the Groups corporate objectives.
The Board reviews and agrees policies and authority levels for treasury activities.
The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, principally forward foreign currency contracts.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk, along with the risks arising from the nancing of the Groups activities in the Public Private Partnership and Private Finance Initiative sectors.
The Groups policies for managing each of these risks are summarised below.
These policies have remained unchanged during the year.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 39 Operating and financial review continued Foreign currency risk Critical accounting policies The Group, through its ownership of companies based outside the The Groups principal accounting policies are described in note 1 to UK, has foreign currency denominated assets.
To mitigate the effect the financial statements.
The financial statements for the year ended of currency exposures arising from net investments overseas, it is the 31 March 2006 have been prepared under IFRS and include the Groups policy to hedge those exposures, where material, using re-statement of comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2005. borrowings denominated in foreign currency.
At 31 March 2006 Earlier years shown within the five year summary on pages 108 to the Group had 23.3m 2005: 10.5m of loans denominated in 110 are under UK GAAP but are presented alongside 2005 and 2006 foreign currency.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures.
These exposures The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally arise from sales or purchases in currencies other than its subsidiaries accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and functional currencies.
It is the Groups policy to hedge such risks, assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities where material, using forward currency contracts.
At 31 March 2006 at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of the Group had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these amounting to the equivalent of 4.5m 2005: 5.8m.
estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from The Group accounts for financial instruments in accordance with those estimates.
Material estimates applied across the Groups IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Where businesses and Joint Ventures are reviewed to a common standard a derivative is a designated hedging instrument and is assessed as and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that consistent treatment effective under IAS 39, any gain or loss on re-measurement is taken of similar and related issues that require judgement is achieved upon to equity.
In all other cases the gain or loss is recognised in the consolidation.
Any revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The accounting policies and areas that require the most significant Public Private Partnership PPP and Private Finance Initiative PFI estimates and judgements to be used in the preparation of the The Groups PPP and PFI projects involve the arrangement of finance financial statements are in relation to contract accounting and as part of the overall project service.
Individual projects are undertaken dened benefit pension schemes.
by Special Purpose Companies SPCs in Joint Ventures with other parties.
These SPCs contract with end users for the provision of Contract accounting serviced facilities and also arrange funding, construction, facilities profit is recognised on contracts on a percentage completion basis, management services and, where required, operational support for provided the outcome of the project can be reasonably foreseen.
Except for equity commitments, the funding of the SPCs is Full provision is made for estimated losses.
Where contracts span arranged without recourse to the rest of the Group.
more than two accounting periods profit is not generally recognised until the project is 50% complete.
The Groups share of the gross assets and liabilities of the SPCs is reected separately in the Group accounts in accordance with the The projected outcome of any given contract is necessarily based on provisions of IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures.
estimates of revenues and costs to completion.
Whilst the assumptions made are based on professional judgements, subsequent events may mean that estimates calculated prove inaccurate, with a consequent effect on the reporting of results.
Dened benefit pension schemes Accounting for pensions involves judgement about uncertain events in the future, such as discount rates, the rate of ination, the level of salary increases and the longevity of scheme members.
Assumptions in respect of pensions and post-retirement benets are set after consultation with independent qualied actuaries.
Management believes the assumptions are appropriate.
However, a change in the assumptions used would impact the Groups results and net assets.
Any differences between the assumptions and the actual outcome will affect results in future years.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 40 Financial risks associated with large and complex Joint Ventures Review of the year Atkins periodically enters into Joint Venture arrangements.
These allow the Group to work in partnership with companies that possess Risks and uncertainties complementary skills in order to meet client needs.
Where projects are large, Joint Venture arrangements may also act to spread commercial In order to achieve our business objectives we must respond and other risks.
In many cases, particularly in relation to PPP PFI effectively to the associated risks.
The Group has well established risk concessions, the Groups liability in the Joint Venture is limited to its management procedures, involving the identication and monitoring committed equity and loan capital.
Some Joint Ventures can, however, of strategic and operational risks at various levels of management.
The include joint and several liability provisions which increase the Groups Board regularly reviews material risks identied and risk management exposure.
The Group takes steps to mitigate this through risk is embedded in our annual budgeting and five-year planning processes.
evaluation prior to entering into such contracts and by regular It is however not possible to mitigate fully all risks that we enter into.
monitoring of Joint Venture performance.
The principal risks for the Group are as follows: Retirement benets Recruitment and retention of sufficient high calibre staff We operate both dened contribution and dened benefit pension The Groups people are its key resource and the recruitment and schemes.
The principal dened benefit scheme is closed to new retention of top quality staff are crucial to its future success.
Failure members but accepts ongoing contributions from existing members.
to do so would constrain the growth of the business and prevent The risk that scheme assets may not match liabilities is inherent in the Group from achieving its potential.
The skills needed are in short dened benefit schemes.
In particular, the schemes assets largely supply and the Group has to compete with a large number of other comprise equities and bonds and therefore the value of the schemes organisations to secure the best talent.
The Group invests a great deal assets is directly affected by the performance of these markets.
The of management effort and resource in this area, a summary of our value of the schemes liabilities is affected by a number of factors, approach being shown in the People section below.
including discount rates, the rate of ination, the level of salary increases and the longevity of scheme members.
Should the assumptions made Changes in the competitive environment resulting from regarding these factors prove inaccurate, a material difference government policy or industry consolidation between the schemes assets and liabilities could persist.
The competitive environment in which the Group operates may change for a number of reasons.
It may be altered by government Safety and health policy in the form of increased or reduced regulation or a change in Our business is concerned with the built environment and this entails public sector procurement practices.
It would also be affected should significant safety and health risks.
Should the Groups policy or practice any significant industry consolidation occur.
We seek to mitigate this in this area prove inadequate, there would be a consequent risk to risk by regularly monitoring market developments and competitor employees, clients, contractors and third parties.
We take safety and activity and undertaking benchmarking processes.
health seriously and ensure that all staff are appropriately trained and that procedures are continuously reviewed and improved.
Changes to the contracting environment resulting from market developments The ways in which business is conducted inevitably change over time.
The nature of the contracting environment is especially important for companies like Atkins.
The trend remains one where clients increasingly seek to transfer risk to consultants: contractors will also seek to share risks.
There is a possibility that, in securing new work, the Group accepts risks that are insufficiently understood or evaluated, with ensuing financial loss.
We actively mitigate this risk via a range of internal review procedures that enable contract terms to be subject to appropriate scrutiny and manageable risks to be reduced.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 41 Operating and financial review continued We have continued building links with academic institutions in the Review of the year UK and overseas.
We are one of the supporters of a new MBA at Imperial College, London that is focused on innovation, while at People Craneld and Warwick Universities we work closely on Atkins in-house management development programmes.
We sponsor Atkins is a significant employer of professional engineers, project Chairs at the British University in Dubai and Greenwich University.
managers and many other specialist disciplines.
Our professionalism and prominence in our sector have been recognised by several awards Our intake of graduate trainees has continued to grow.
We were won during the year, including the following: particularly pleased to be the fastest riser in the list of The Times Top The Sunday Times Top 20 Best Big Companies To Work For, 100 Graduate Employers.
We now visit 35 universities during the in which we were placed 11th and ahead of several leading annual recruitment exercise and process applications from over 8,000 professional service organisations.
During the year approximately 140 graduates The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers, in which our placing attended graduate development workshops, which utilise many of moved from 94 to 66. the assessment tools employed by our Management Development QS Employer of the Year.
Feedback from participants has been very encouraging and Best Places to Work in IT, in which we were again placed in the we expect these workshops to prove successful in supporting the top three in our sector.
career development of our graduate recruits.
While we have made significant progress in this area, it will remain a focus for continuous Recruitment and retention improvement, not least as we move from a UK-centric to an Our investment in e-recruitment is beginning to achieve positive international organisation.
In addition to signicantly increasing our capacity to recruit, this has brought cost and efficiency benets, with the proportion of Reward potential recruits applying online now over 40%.
Over 500 staff are eligible to participate in the Executive Bonus Scheme.
This rewards senior staff for the achievement of demanding We have continued to increase the resources allocated to recruitment, performance targets, a third of any award being in the form of with over 40 specialist staff now dedicated to this activity.
Our shares deferred for a period of three years.
The funds available for e-recruitment platform now covers the US and the Middle East and discretionary bonuses continued to increase, with awards made to will be extended to cover India and China this year.
Communications have been improved with the issue of Total Reward Statements for the top 500 managers.
Staff numbers have risen steadily and our own staff increased by This is an important step in communicating the value of non-salary approximately 650 in the year, with total headcount including agency benets, in particular pension, bonus and share awards, and in staff up by over 1,000.
We have undertaken a number of highly moving towards a total compensation culture.
successful recruitment campaigns in India, Poland and Australasia and will continue to extend our recruitment coverage.
Working environment Some 70% of staff responded to our annual Viewpoint survey which Staff turnover fell in the year from 15.0% to 14.1%, with a marked covered all staff worldwide.
The overall Employee Engagement Index improvement in our design disciplines.
Staff turnover for those of 71 was unchanged at Group level and remains above the benchmark participating in management development schemes is particularly for organisations similar to Atkins.
We remain committed to improving low, providing an early return on our investment.
Retention of staff performance, particularly in relation to recognition and feedback, on graduate training schemes has also improved, following areas that we believe have a direct impact on staff retention.
enhancement of our development programmes.
Participation in our Share Incentive Plan remains healthy with 10% Training and development of eligible staff purchasing shares on a monthly basis.
Participation is Investment in training and development increased further during the also high for other exible benets, including childcare vouchers and year and a major improvement of our management training portfolio exible leave.
We plan shortly to introduce a Bike4work scheme has been largely completed.
By 31 March 2006 1,850 managers had taking advantage of the tax concessions available in the UK.
attended people management, commercial and client management programmes.
These programmes involve managers across the The proportion of UK staff covered by Investors in People accreditation business and are now being run on an international basis.
We have increased from 66% to 73% last year.
increased the annual throughput of managers attending our highly successful Management Development Centres to around 200.
Our Senior Management Development Programme continues to prove very beneficial, both in broadening the skills and mindset of the next generation of top managers and as a catalyst for driving change across the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 42 One of the Groups most important performance indicators on safety Review of the year is the Accident Incident Rate AIR, which measures the annual number of reportable accidents per 100,000 employees.
AIR statistics Corporate responsibility are measured both for our employees and contractors and are divided into ofce, engineering and construction activities.
AIR performance in Corporate responsibility CR is an increasingly important issue for 2005 06 showed an overall improvement compared to the previous all companies and Atkins is no exception.
The Groups understanding year and targets were met in all categories, as shown below: of this area continues to mature and over time CR has become more embedded in our management systems, policies and culture.
Every Ofce Engineering Construction 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 year the Group publishes a CR Report, simultaneously with the Annual Report, which provides details of our CR strategy and performance.
Target 170 170 463 463 2,100 2,100 A summary of the key issues and developments during the year is Actual: presented here, while matters relating to our staff are covered in Employees 104 59 151 235 556 2,763 the People section above.
Contractors 124 767 293 317 CR management During the year we received no improvement or prohibition notices The Board sets Group policies on CR, the Chief Executive being from the Health and Safety Executive or any local authority during responsible to the Board for the Groups CR performance.
Central their visits to our ofces and sites.
We received no prosecutions for management frameworks are in place covering various CR matters, any breach of health and safety laws.
including a common management structure dealing with quality, safety and health and environment QSE.
Every Atkins business unit The Group is committed to continuous improvement to safety and has dedicated QSE representatives to implement Group policies and health and objectives for this year include: manage issues at a local level.
Completion of OHSAS 18001 certication across the Group.
Achievement of reduced AIR targets.
Group policies are in place covering a range of areas, including Continuing roll-out of Construction Skills Certication Scheme quality, safety and health, the environment, business conduct, data cards to our employees.
protection, dignity and equality at work, whistle-blowing and the appropriate use of information technology.
These policies are published on the corporate intranet and are also provided externally on request.
Policies are regularly reviewed and updated where necessary to reect changes in legislation, emerging good practice and business needs.
Risk identication and management are key parts of this process.
Business units are encouraged to adopt additional policies locally where these are particularly relevant to their own operations, provided these are in line with Group policies.
Safety and health Effective safety and health management is central to our commitment to CR.
Last year we continued to make progress in this area, including: Additional OHSAS 18001 certications.
Improvements to our accident near miss reporting system, including a 24 7 hotline.
Launch of safety, health and environment induction training via e-learning.
Production of a noise e-learning module for the industry as part the 2005 European Safety Week.
Publication of a handbook on driving safety.
Translation of key safety, health and environment resources into local languages for our non-UK operations.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 43 Operating and financial review continued Environment The Group seeks to measure the direct environmental impact of its The Group is very much aware of the potential impact of its activities operations via the measurement of certain performance indicators, on the environment.
Our environment policy requires that we: details of which are shown in the CR Report.
The most significant Take environmental impact into account in the planning, design direct impacts on the environment for businesses such as Atkins are and conduct of our work to help prevent pollution, minimise our CO2 emissions arising from ofce accommodation and business travel, impacts on local communities and ensure that activities with high and non-hazardous waste.
Reporting of data is still evolving as environmental risks are controlled effectively.
standard CO2 conversion factors are revised and our own data capture Ensure compliance with all relevant environmental legislation and, systems improve.
The estimates shown below are based only on data where practical, with codes of practice, industrial standards and from UK-based operations, the gures for 2005 06 being broadly other requirements, including those specified by our customers.
similar to the previous year: Incorporate environmental and sustainability considerations into our Per employee 2006 2005 design standards and practices regarding the procurement and use of materials, energy consumption, waste disposal and recycling.
CO2 emissions 2,708kg 2,716kg Provide appropriate environmental training for our own staff and Solid non-hazardous waste 82kg 85kg work to promote environmental awareness amongst our suppliers, Paper recycled 29kg 27kg contractors and partners.
Indirect impacts from business activities also occur in the form of Progress last year included the following: upstream impacts, notably through the use of sub-consultants and An improvement to our Business in the Environment survey score other suppliers, and downstream impacts via our clients use of the from 74% to 80%, ranking the Group within the top 100 performers.
capital infrastructure we plan, design and enable.
The Group regards Implementation of e-learning for staff covering environmental issues.
measurement of these impacts as impractical at present.
Inclusion of environmental reporting within our online accident reporting system.
We intend to provide additional information on direct environmental Production and distribution of an emergency response guide for performance indicators in future Annual Reports as this area develops site activities.
within business as a whole and reliable industry comparator The switch to a green tariff for electricity supply to all our UK information becomes available.
Subscription to the Corporate Responsibility Exchange CRE to No significant environmental incidents were reported during the enhance our performance monitoring.
We received no cautions, warnings or prohibition notices from enforcement authorities related to environmental incidents and we were not prosecuted for any breach of environment law.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 44 Improvements in the area of environmental management planned Relationships with other stakeholders for this year include: The maintenance of excellent relationships with other key Achievement of ISO 14001 certication across the whole business.
stakeholders, including customers and suppliers, is crucial to the Improvements to our environmental incident reporting system.
In particular we place great emphasis on: Strengthening of our capabilities in sustainable design and Understanding our clients needs and delivering the highest engineering services.
Implementation of a green policy covering company cars.
The adoption of a partnership approach to achieve shared aims.
Roll-out of environmental leadership courses across the business.
Integrity, honesty and efficiency in communication.
Feedback, review and continual improvement.
Community The Group takes great pride in making a contribution to the Effective quality management systems are critical to the delivery communities in which it works.
In particular: of first class service to clients.
All of the Groups UK businesses are Many of our projects have positive social, ethical and accredited with the international quality standard ISO 9001:2000. environmental impacts.
Last year further approvals were achieved among our non-UK based The Group is formally involved in a number of charitable, businesses and all of our operations in the Middle East and China are educational and environmental initiatives.
now accredited with the standard.
Our staff are involved with many voluntary community and fund-raising activities.
A Group procurement policy is in place which includes the use of preferred suppliers.
These are selected through a fair tendering process Our CR report contains numerous case studies covering these areas.
and are expected to comply with minimum CR criteria.
It is our policy, wherever possible, to use environmentally friendly goods and services The Group again participated in the Business in the Community and to purchase from ISO 14001-accredited organisations.
We also Corporate Responsibility Index last year.
Our score rose from 71% seek to use contractors covered by the Safe Contractor accreditation to 78%, ranking Atkins within the top 100 participants.
to support the management of the Groups estate.
Last year the efforts of our people won numerous awards and accolades, both from customers and independent organisations.
This year we will continue our efforts to improve further our relationships with key stakeholders.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Keith Clarke Robert MacLeod Chief Executive Group Finance Director 22 June 2006 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 45
