Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 14 Business review continued Financial review Measuring performance Net asset value per share has been the key financial performance indicator for the Group for the year and is commented upon below.
Since the completion of the property disposal programme earlier this financial year, the Group has embarked upon what is in effect an investment period that marks the transition towards a more development based business.
THE GROUP HAS EMBARKED This has created a change in the UPON WHAT IS IN EFFECT financial dynamics of the Group whereby, as a consequence, AN INVESTMENT PERIOD the financial performance does THAT MARKS THE not yet fully reflect the new strategy adopted and the investments made.
TRANSITION TOWARDS The Group will prioritise its use of A MORE DEVELOPMENT capital in areas where we feel it will deliver strong and sustainable BASED BUSINESS.
shareholder returns whilst adhering THIS HAS CREATED A to a simple philosophy regarding capital discipline and leverage.
CHANGE IN THE FINANCIAL DYNAMICS OF THE GROUP.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Ivan Ezekiel This year is the first financial year Finance Director that the Group has reported its results under IFRS, the International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under European Union legislation, all EU listed companies are required to adopt IFRS for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Minerva has applied IFRS from 1 July 2005 and comparative figures for this financial year have been restated.
The notes to the accounts contain summary reconciliations to the previously reported figures.
The interim results for the six months ended 31 December 2005 were published in March of this year under IFRS, soon after the publication of the Groups Transition Report which showed the movement between the Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 15 results previously reported under In the current year the income Review of results: UK GAAP and those now reported statement includes movements in under IFRS.
the fair value of financial instruments.
Headline results This reflects the introduction of IAS 39 The principal IFRS adjustments Net asset value per share at and the exemptions afforded by impacting the Groups financial 30 June 2006 is 311.5 pence IFRS 1 which do not require the prior statements are: 2005: 314.9 pence.
As the Group year comparison to be adjusted.
has no off-balance sheet financial the recognition of property The Group mitigates the extent of this instruments which are not reflected revaluation movements in the movement on the income statement at valuation, this net asset value income statement, rather than by adopting hedge accounting represents the UK industry measure through reserves: treatment for interest rate derivatives referred to as triple net asset value where applicable and, in these the full provision for deferred per share.
instances, the movement in the fair taxation on investment property value is shown through reserves.
Profit for the year, incorporating revaluations, with movements in During the year, 5.8 million revaluation movements, increased the provision being recognised before tax has been credited through to 1.7 million 2005: loss of in the income statement: reserves and 1.5 million before tax 20.4 million.
the treatment of head leases has been credited to the income relating to leasehold property statement and is shown within interest Income statement as a financial liability, with a receivable and similar income.
The Group recorded a loss before tax corresponding asset recognised Administrative expenses for the of 6.9 million 2005: 42.3 million.
within investment properties: year reduced from 16.8 million to This has been analysed in detail in the expensing of directly 8.8 million.
The reduction of around note 2 of the accounts between a attributable letting fees over the 8.0 million, in most part, reflects profit before exceptional items of period of the relevant lease, rather the exceptional charge of 8.0 million 9.3 million 2005: loss of 4.7 million than to expense them as incurred: incurred last year for the irrecoverable and exceptional costs of 16.2 million part of a loan advanced to 2005: 37.7 million.
the recognition of a liability to pay Scarlett Retail.
a dividend in the period in which The decrease in revenue from it has been approved: The income statement also includes 61.4 million to 20.2 million the revaluation movements on principally arose from the reduction the amortisation of lease investment properties, required under in rental income following the disposal incentives over the period of the IFRS.
The revaluation surplus for the of investment properties during the lease, rather than to the first rent year was 11.1 million 2005: deficit latter half of the last financial year and review date: of 6.3 million and includes the net the first half of the year under review.
the recognition of the fair value amount receivable from Barclays Bank Similarly net property outgoings of equity-settled long-term of 26.1 million following the surrender reduced by 4.1 million to 5.1 million incentives granted to employees of their lease at The Walbrook.
2005: 9.2 million, although this as an expense in the income reduction was partly offset by higher After including the items referred statement: and void costs on properties held for to above, the Group recorded a development.
the recognition of derivative pre-exceptional profit before tax of financial instruments at fair value 9.3 million 2005: loss of 4.7 million.
Net financing costs decreased from in the balance sheet with a 42.0 million to 8.2 million.
As was movement in the period taken to also the case last year, the reduction the income statement unless they reflects the effect of loan repayments qualify for hedge accounting.
following property disposals, as well as the benefit of higher interest Further details, reconciliations receivable on the Groups higher and commentary summarising average cash balances.
During the the transition to IFRS are available year, no interest was capitalised on the Groups website, 2005: nil.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 16 Business review continued In terms of exceptional items, the loss The dividend policy for the Group During the year, the Group acquired arising on the sale of the Bankside was outlined together with our interim the Odeon Cinema on High Street Estate, partially offset by contingent results in March and is designed to Kensington and this has been consideration received from one of the repatriate special dividends to treated as trading stock at 30 June properties sold last year, resulted in shareholders when profits are 2006 and has therefore not been a total loss on disposal of investment delivered through our development revalued.
As it is our current intention properties of 0.8 million 2005: activities.
Consequently, other than the to redevelop the property into mainly 12.5 million.
Fixed loan and swap dividend approved this year in respect luxury apartments for sale, the break costs totalling 15.4 million of the last financial year of 3.5 million treatment of the asset as trading were also incurred, principally in 2005: 5.2 million, no other dividend stock is considered to be the most relation to the loans repaid on the has been paid or declared this appropriate.
A similar treatment will Bankside Estate sale but also in financial year.
be adopted by the Group for the relation to the repayment of the property acquired at Lancaster Gate investment loans secured on Balance sheet after the year end.
The latter was The investment property portfolio, Net debt at 30 June 2006 was refinanced with a new 275 million including our non-trading 100.4 million 2005: 371.0 million, loan facility provided by Deutsche development assets, has been valued comprising borrowings at 30 June Postbank and Nationwide Building for the first time by CB Richard Ellis 2006 of 262.1 million 2005: Society, and permits the Group to Ltd at 579.2 million at 30 June 2006 515.4 million and cash and develop the property speculatively.
short-term deposits of 161.6 million The corporation tax credit for the year 2005: 144.4 million.
The decrease The additions during the year consist is 8.6 million 2005: 26.4 million and in net debt during the year of around of property acquisitions and related consists entirely of deferred taxation.
270 million largely reflects the expenditure of 40.0 million and IFRS requires that full provision is property disposals completed at the development expenditure, principally made for deferred taxation and beginning of the year partly offset by in relation to The Walbrook and consequently the deferred tax movement costs incurred in terminating hedging Park Place, totalling 12.4 million.
in the income statement now shows instruments on loans repaid and net The disposals totalling circa the movement in the provision for tax expenditure incurred on the acquisition 226 million relate entirely to the on revaluation surpluses as well as of new properties, investment in new sales of Sampson House and Ludgate on timing differences between the ventures and the progression of our House which were completed in carrying amounts of the other assets development projects.
The net revaluation and liabilities in the financial statements surplus for the year to 30 June 2006 The Groups investment in joint and their corresponding tax bases.
amounted to 11.1 million 2005: venture represents the Groups net The deferred tax credit for the year deficit of 6.3 million and incorporates investment in Skypark, Glasgow reflects a number of items, but principally the Barclays surrender premium where we have a 25 per cent interest.
the tax effect of fixed rate loan and referred to above.
As mentioned A small profit for the year has been swap break costs incurred, balancing earlier, the revaluation movement recorded in the income statement allowances arising on property disposals, is recognised through the Groups reflecting the Groups net effective indexation allowance as well as other income statement.
share of the results of the joint venture.
The Group has no liability to corporation tax for the It should be noted, as is normal The balance sheet now includes year 2005: nil.
practice, that investment properties a minority interest figure, which are stated after valuing notional represents Northacre plcs interest After incorporating exceptional purchasers costs including stamp in the Odeon Cinema, Kensington.
items and the tax credit, the Groups duty.
These costs assume that each profit for the year was 1.7 million property is sold at market value and 2005: loss of 20.4 million.
take no account of structures through which the assets are held.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 17 Finance for principal Financing As previously explained, we will only development opportunities commit to the construction of the The Group finances its activities building once a minimum pre-let Amount through a mixture of equity, cash drawn at equivalent to around 25 per cent of and bank borrowings.
Total 30 June the office space has been secured.
facility 2006 The Group seeks to selectively Reason million million During the year we have made gear property acquisitions and To acquire and repayments totalling 351.9 million fund development properties with redevelop the principally in relation to the appropriately structured bank debt, Odeon Cinema, repayments of loans relating to typically either non-recourse or Kensington 77.5 16.3 property sales at the beginning of limited recourse, whilst holding the year of 270.3 million, with the To refinance the a certain level of cash in reserve.
balance representing loans which site and develop The cash reserves provide the Group have been refinanced or have The Walbrook 275.0 75.0 with security, liquidity and the flexibility been amortised.
to invest in future opportunities.
To acquire The Group deposits its cash with At 30 June 2006 the average and redevelop selected financial institutions with interest cost of debt for the Group, Lancaster Gate 153.6 high credit ratings.
excluding joint ventures, was 6.4 per 506.1 91.3 cent 2005: 6.9 per cent.
The reduction During the year, we have secured in our average interest cost of 506.1 million of committed new debt is primarily a consequence facilities to finance three principal of the repayment of more expensive Cash reserves development opportunities.
loans as part of the property Since the year end, the Group disposal programme.
161.6M 2006 has completed a refinancing of In terms of interest rate management, the St. Botolphs House site with we continue to use interest rate 144.4M 2005 HSH Nordbank.
The new 52.2 million derivatives to manage the interest non-recourse facility, which allows rate profile and at 30 June 2006, interest to be rolled-up within it, initially 83 per cent 2005: 93 per cent of generated circa 14.0 million of new the Groups bank borrowings were cash to Group reserves after repaying hedged under interest rate swap the existing debt on the site and agreements.
The Groups policy effectively forward finances the is to, where possible, match the St. Botolphs House demolition revenue profile from the properties and detailed design activities over with certainty in relation to interest the forthcoming year or so.
Where there is less certainty As outlined earlier in the report, of revenue, for example as is the our efforts are also focused on case where properties are being extending this facility to encompass developed, we will endeavour to the full construction of the building hedge interest costs with swaps, and in this regard we can report that caps and other financial instruments.
HSH Nordbank have credit committee Net gearing, measured as Group net approval to underwrite 50 per cent debt as a proportion of total equity, of this new facility which is expected DURING THE YEAR, was 20 per cent at 30 June 2006 to extend to 315 million.
We are in WE HAVE SECURED 2005: 73 per cent.
discussion with other lenders with a 506.1 MILLION view to obtaining a fully underwritten OF COMMITTED facility over the next few months.
NEW FACILITIES TO FINANCE THREE PRINCIPAL DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
