13 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review 2006 was a year of achievement: we delivered an excellent financial performance, expanded our range of global property-related services and comprehensively reviewed our strategy.
Pre-tax profits increased from 58.6m to 84.4m.
Underlying pre-tax profits increased from 57.2m to 75.0m.
Underlying profit is calculated by adjusting reported profit before tax to deduct profits on disposals of 5.1m 2005 0.4m, share based payment adjustment of 6.1m 2005 1.9m and add back amortisation of intangibles and impairment of goodwill of 1.8m 2005 0.9m.
In the UK, we saw exceptional performance, exploiting the opportunities of rising commercial and residential markets.
Acquisitions and organic expansion brought new teams and new expertise into our commercial capability.
We also expanded our residential teams and partnered with major clients on a number of very significant projects.
Aubrey Adams Chief Executive In Europe, the main focus of our business was investment, where we expanded our services in all areas.
Increased economic activity and renewed confidence across the region created a number of opportunities which were capitalised upon by our teams.
In Asia Pacific, we recorded 38% growth in revenue with a significant increase in profitability: 48% of the growth was attributable to our acquisition in Korea, while the remainder was largely due to organic growth in existing geographical and service lines of business especially in our Property and Facility Management businesses.
This achievement was generated against a backdrop of various investments made during the year, including new offices, recruitment and infrastructure projects.
Left 88 Wood Street was one of a 88 Wood Street.
A City of range of major projects handled London landmark designed by by our International Investment Richard Rogers Partnership, team in 2006.
Altogether, 88 Wood Street is multi-let to the team completed over 2bn of a wide range of tenants.
transactions, across a diverse range of investments and development 88 Wood Street is a contemporary opportunities.
These included: building providing approximately the sale of Linklaters HQ in the 247,700 sq ft 23,000 sq m of City for CGI for 355m: the sale high quality office space on of Diagonal Shopping Centre in 18 floors in the heart of the City.
Barcelona on behalf of Deka for Multi-let to a wide cross-section 1325m: and a number of other of professional and financial tenants, UK sales including Colmore Gate it produces a total annual income in Birmingham for 80.5m, The Ark of around 12.5m.
in Hammersmith for 49.5m, Times Place on Pall Mall for We acted for MPC Fund Sachwert 85m and a City portfolio for Renditefonds England GmbH Co Deka for 355m.
KG, in the sale of the building by Muenchmeyer Petersen Real Estate Consulting GmbH to ING Real Estate in September 2006.
This was the single biggest asset purchased by ING Real Estate Investment Management in the UK.
14 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Group Strategy Right Context and vision Over the past five years, we In these cities, Savills will be building scale, service, PaddingtonCentral.
have delivered outstanding growth in total shareholder breadth, brand recognition and team strength.
We provided comprehensive returns, achieving a total return of 898% compared consultancy services on the Excellent people remain at the heart of success PaddingtonCentral scheme, with a return of 117% provided by the FTSE 250 in this market.
The war for talent is more intense which will include some of the and 233% by the FTSE All Share Real Estate Index.
than ever before, and the need to reward and retain largest office buildings in the Recognising the need to sustain this high level of West End of London.
key individuals is vital as competitors recognise the growth, the Board undertook a Strategic Review PaddingtonCentral is a mixed quality of Savills people, our distinguishing asset.
during 2006 to map the path for the business over use redevelopment scheme which We have a unique culture that is the envy of our forms a major part of the urban the next five years.
Our vision is at the heart of this competitors and we will do everything we can to regeneration of Paddington.
new strategy: ensure Savills remains the most attractive place to Once complete, the project will comprise 1.6m sq ft 148,650 sq m work in the industry.
To become one of the leading providers of real estate of space for residential, retail, health services in all of the major markets of the world.
and fitness and office use, including Investment markets in which we are already the some of the largest office buildings leader remain central to the success of Savills By doing so, we aim to deliver superior total in the West End.
The next phase of business model.
However, uncertainty remains over 260,000 sq ft 24,155 sq m of returns to shareholders compared with our peers.
offices is under construction and future economic growth in mature markets, reinforcing Through this combination of market leadership and will complete in January 2008. our need to develop further non-transactional sources financial success, our aim is for Savills to be the We provided comprehensive of revenue and to diversify geographically.
employer of choice for outstanding individuals.
advice through all stages of the The Savills strategy The strategy revolves around project including development The market for real estate services There is no consultancy, purchase, funding, five key objectives: doubt that our core customer groups still value scheme design, marketing expertise, local knowledge, our breadth of experience and leasing.
To invest in teams of excellent people, achieving scale across the disciplines, innovation, professionalism and and brand recognition in the major cities of the world.
Ultimately, PaddingtonCentral will provide a 24 hour environment, high calibre individuals.
Building strong local businesses To serve investors, developers, and occupiers completely transforming and and offering this local expertise and experience remains in those major cities, from a broad range enhancing an area of formerly central to our approach.
However, we are also seeing an of regional platforms including investment derelict land directly adjacent increasing requirement from our customers to support to the mainline railway station.
brokerage, valuation, leasing, development them across borders this is particularly true of property and property asset management.
investors, for whom we are increasingly handling To continue to grow our leading positions in the UK, multinational assignments.
Ireland, Hong Kong and parts of Asia, as well as growing our business in other major financial and The competitive environment is also evolving, institutional locations.
with more competitive tendering for business than To exploit our depth of real estate expertise ever before.
Savills is strong in many markets, with and market leadership through improving and leadership positions in the major cities of the UK growing our fund management business, and Ireland, Hong Kong and other areas of Asia.
Cordea Savills, and our financial services However, we recognise the need to achieve stronger business, Savills Private Finance.
We will focus our To increasingly invest in the Savills business and efforts on other major cities in Europe, Asia and the US, brand to ensure the long-term sustainability of in large economies that have the strongest domestic earnings, whilst maintaining a focus on short-term real estate markets and which are also important financial returns.
sources destinations for real estate investment flows.
UK PaddingtonCentral London, W2 UK Kemsley Fields Sittingbourne, Kent Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review 17 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Group Strategy continued Left Measuring success At Savills, we have a long history Priorities for 2007 and beyond Geographically, we Kemsley Fields, Sittingbourne.
of maintaining a sharp focus on profit and financial aim to expand and believe there is considerable scope Our involvement with the measures will continue to be of greatest importance.
for this expansion in Europe.
There are initiatives in development of the Kemsley Fields Business Park place to grow and broaden the domestic UK, Irish, However, we will also be introducing new measures to is both long-standing and and German businesses, followed by Italy, Spain and wide-ranging.
help review progress against our strategic objectives.
There is also scope for expansion in Asia, These will include a combination of people and Kemsley Fields is one of the largest and the short-term priorities for building broad-based development sites in the South East organisational measures, customer and market domestic businesses include Japan, Hong Kong, of England, with outline planning leadership measures, and operational measures.
consent for around 1.8m sq ft Singapore, Seoul, and major cities in Greater China.
167,220 sq m of B1, B2 and B8 Achievements in 2006 There have been numerous In addition, several new offices are planned across employment use.
highlights of the past 12 months, some of which are the European and Asian regions to enhance our The 126 acre 51 hectare site documented on the following pages and also in the cross-border investment position and to establish occupies a nationally strategic feature case studies throughout this Annual Report an initial presence.
position, close to the Channel Tunnel as well as the motorway and Accounts.
The US is a top priority, especially following the and rail networks.
It will form a major regeneration with significant In the UK, we achieved our programme of expansion termination of the Alliance Agreement with Trammell employment and residential into the retail sector by completing the acquisition Crow Company now that the acquisition by CBRE opportunities which will contribute of Blair Kirkman LLP and we now offer an extensive is complete.
A number of options are presently to the sustainable economic growth of the Sittingbourne area.
under consideration including the potential to acquire In addition, Kemsley Fields will be one or more established businesses.
developed alongside infrastructure In Europe, we successfully established our Munich improvements which will alleviate office and completed recruitment for the opening Having invested in infrastructure within Cordea Savills, traffic congestion.
We also recruited key we are now confident that it will deliver solid growth Our team has been involved on directors into investment and valuation for our through the launch of several new funds.
We will also Kemsley Fields from the project Netherlands operation.
The Hungarian business was be driving closer co-operation between SPF and the inception to now being invited to act as joint letting agents.
We initially successfully incorporated with our Budapest office UK commercial and residential businesses, which introduced the site to Gazeley and now up and running.
advised on development viability, form and values.
Standard Life The acquisition of Hamilton Osborne King in Ireland Our organisation and brand are key to the way in became involved as funding promises to be a success with an increased European which we will deliver our strategy.
Looking ahead, partners and, together with Gazeley, acquired the site for 20m.
network for Irish business to access and greater we will be upgrading the HR strategy for the business, contact for our European and UK investment clients to ensure we have the right mix of skills and to Irish money.
capabilities in the business as we continue to grow.
In Asia, we acquired a 55% stake in leading Korean businesses, Korea Asset Advisors and BHP Korea to establish a market leading presence in Korea.
18 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Marketplace Overview UK The years major story in the UK commercial Investor demand for commercial property is likely Driven to a great extent by City bonuses and overseas market was the return of upward rental growth in the to remain high over the next 12 months, with both purchasers, the top end prime markets are less office market, on the back of a recovery in tenant domestic and international investors still showing sensitive to the cost of borrowing.
With last years City demand in London and the South East.
Following the interest in the asset class.
The introduction of REITs bonuses fuelling demand and global economic growth downturn in 20012003, tenant demand has returned to the UK in 2007 may well increase this interest in set to continue, we anticipate at least another year of to, or exceeded, average annual levels.
This demand the sector, leading to further upward price movement.
high price growth in prime markets, assuming that the has driven vacancy rates downwards which has In terms of the leasing and development markets, current uncertainty in financial markets is a short-term had the effect of driving rental growth upwards.
we expect that the Central London office market issue.
Longer term, barring an unexpected economic will continue to show the strongest rental growth shock, the top end prime markets seem likely to show Rising rents have prompted renewed interest from and returns.
developers in these markets, following several years where activity has been lower than average.
UK residential markets were also strong during 2006.
Whilst the new homes markets are still driven by Despite higher interest rates, price growth approached overall housing scarcity at a national level, the way in Tenant demand in the industrial and warehousing 10%.
London and the South East were the strongest which new housing supply is being delivered to the markets remains steady, particularly for large markets: most notably prime Central London markets market has created imbalances.
This means that distribution schemes in the Midlands and around where prices grew by an average of 24%.
some local markets have reached saturation and the M25.
developers must know their markets well in order Recent surveys of asking prices, new sales Whilst challenging trading conditions continued to deliver the right product type and fully target all instructions and buyer enquiries indicated positive through 2006, retailers have nevertheless continued new demand.
sentiment in mainstream markets, leading up to to expand.
Retailer demand is increasingly focused Januarys increase in interest rates, but thereafter Europe Improved economic activity and the upturn on the best locations, and this favours prime shopping there has been evidence of more buyer caution.
in employment growth translated into higher tenant centres, retail warehouse parks and high streets At this stage we see no reason to alter our expectation take-up levels in most European markets in 2006. around the country.
of a 7% increase in UK house prices during 2007.
The imbalance between demand and supply is 2006 was another strong year for investor demand The main issue in most markets concerns purchasers gradually being restored and vacancy rates are slowly and we estimate that the level of investment in UK perceptions of where interest rates will be by the yearfalling in most markets.
Prime rental growth has commercial property was broadly in line with 2005s end.
If expectations are of a further 25 basis point rise accelerated during the course of the previous year: record level.
Around 30% of the purchases of UK to 5.5%, with no fall thereafter, then households are we estimate that it reached 10% on average at commercial property in 2006 were by non-domestic likely to rebuild incomes, reducing their spending on the end of 2006 across the main European central investors.
Investor demand continued to drive up housing.
This will lead to lower turnover and price business district markets.
Yields in all the UK markets that we monitor growth.
However, we do not expect price falls, as the The level of demand for modern warehouses remains ended the year at or close to record lows.
interest rate trigger for such market behaviour is likely high, driven by the growth of trade and logistics to be above 6% and possibly as high as 7%.
Looking ahead we expect similar conditions to prevail activity in Europe.
Consolidation is creating large in 2007.
Tenant demand in the office and industrial scale requirements, with demand focused around the markets is likely to stay at or slightly above average main conurbations, airports, ports and motorways.
levels due to an improving macro-economic However, new locations are emerging as occupiers environment.
Retailers will continue to be cautious in look to balance cost, availability of labour and their expansion plans as consumer confidence stays accessibility.
We have seen rental values increase low.
Although we anticipate that retailers will look to mainly in those areas where demand exceeds supply.
open new outlets, this demand will be highly location specific.
19 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Overleaf left Overleaf right The predictions for strong labour market conditions in Asia Increasing maturity in the China real estate Cordea Savills.
The sale of CityPoint Europe in 2007 and an improving economic climate market will offer opportunities for investment sales Cordea Savills launched the UK was the largest commercial support a positive outlook for the property sector.
However, frequent intervention Student Hall Fund raising 39m office building transaction in from six institutional investors the City of London in 2006.
As market fundamentals recover, developer interest is by the government into the property sector, either at a restricted first closing.
renewed driven by the anticipation of higher demand by increasing property taxes or restrictions on When our team handled the sale These investors gained immediate of CityPoint for 520m, it marked and positive rental growth.
available credit for property lending, may reduce exposure to a seed portfolio of the largest single commercial office investor attraction.
three assets, which are let on building transaction in the City of The expansion of large international retailers leases of greater than 20 years London.
The sale reflected a yield in Europe goes hand in hand with the expansion According to the Asian Development Bank, Asia with guaranteed index-linked of 5.85% and accounted for 5% of of out-of-town retail concepts, which are still reported growth of 7.7% in 2006, marginally above rental uplifts.
the total turnover of city transactions during the year.
underdeveloped in a number of European countries, the 7.4% recorded in 2005.
Growth drivers included The fund offers both income and especially the recent entrants to the European Union.
European and US demand for exports as well as growth, targeting a return above CityPoint provides 707,000 sq ft 10% per annum.
The investment 65,688 sq m of space and was The projections for strong consumer spending growth increasingly significant levels of domestic consumption strategy of the fund is to build a sold by the City of London Office and the swift move towards new shopping habits and intra-regional trade.
Japan began to turn around solid base of properties providing Unit Trust CLOUT to Tishman in these regions offer an attractive environment for in 2006 while China and India continued to enjoy secure income through long leases, Speyer, SITQ, Schroder Exempt complemented by directly let halls Property Unit Trust and UBS Wealth developers and investors.
We experienced significant growth rates of more than 8%.
Strong growth is providing potential for growth.
yield compression in 2006 and this should continue forecast for 2007, supported by intra-regional trade, The fund has since grown to 95m In addition to CityPoint, we in 2007. domestic consumption expenditure and foreign direct with five assets.
handled a number of high profile investment, factors which will continue to drive the development sites in the City, Investor demand was also strong in all markets but The student hall market remains a regional economy even if the US were to experience including DIFAs tower on in particular for offices and warehouses due to the compelling investment opportunity a soft landing.
Bishopsgate, the 1,000 ft tall as university applicant numbers perception that the leasing markets are improving Helter Skelter, and Crown Place, continue to grow.
or likely to improve soon.
There is an evident yield Many of Asias major office markets reported a 200,000 sq ft 18,580 sq m building which was sold to convergence, especially across the prime commercial exceptional levels of occupier demand in 2006 at a Greycoat for around 60 million.
Furthermore, we have seen strong investor time when supply of prime office space has proved Altogether, 2006 saw our interest in more specialist asset classes.
The result has been rapidly rising rents investment teams complete over in Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Shanghai and 2bn of investment transactions in We expect European property to remain high on the City.
This was achieved against this trend is expected to continue into 2007.
Cost the agenda of many investment managers in 2007, a background of the strongest-ever increases in some of these markets are prompting despite the limited supply of product.
The introduction investment market, as total turnover tenants to look to non-core office locations to passed 10bn.
of REITs in the UK and Germany should also drive the accommodate all or part of their operations.
growth of the listed sector, offering a wider spectrum In Beijing and Seoul, relatively high levels of new of options to investors.
Prospects for further yield Grade A office supply in 2007 should cap any compression are more positive in developing markets rental upside for the time being although high rates and locations with good rental growth prospects.
of pre-commitment in Seoul suggest that there may be room for some growth.
UK Bournemouth University Student Halls Bournemouth, England UK CityPoint London, EC2 UK Norwich Union portfolio Stevenage, England 23 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Marketplace Overview continued Left In the residential markets, fortunes were mixed.
US US GDP has been following the global trend with Norwich Union portfolio.
During In Japan, a broad based and stable recovery should a 3.3% growth rate in 2006 and an expected 2.3% 2006, we continued to advise continue to underpin demand for housing and prices expansion in 2007.
Going forward major economic Norwich Union on its portfolio and helped dispose of a number should make steady progress in 2007.
In Hong Kong, indicators are predicted to remain stable, with slight of surplus assets.
after two years of modest growth, values look set to increases in unemployment and interest rates In May 2005, we were appointed to put in a strong performance over the next 12 months, expected in 2008 and beyond.
advise Norwich Union on its surplus especially as salary increases and bonuses feed portfolio throughout the UK.
This 2004 and 2005 saw record capital inflow into through into the marketplace.
Singapore has made comprised around 150 properties commercial real estate.
Despite the sentiment of a accounting for over 200 separate remarkable progress and the residential market is cooling US investment market office property sales sub-leases and totalling 1.69m sq ft booming, especially at the top-end.
In mainland China, 160,000 sq m. Approximately 95% increased by 33% to $134bn in 2006 and over the governments efforts to cool the housing market of the portfolio is office space with $307bn of commercial real estate transaction volumes significant concentrations in have succeeded in moderating price rises and were reported for 2006 Source: US National London, Sheffield and Stevenage.
cooling sentiment, while strong economic growth Association of Realtors.
Performance is closely tied to Since that initial appointment, should render any major price correction unlikely.
the general health of the economy and as a result the our team has disposed of around Slower economic growth combined with tough new 320,000 sq ft 29,729 sq m, market has experienced stable growth in the past two government measures should see the residential including key buildings in Liverpool, years as the economy recovers from the burst of the Cardiff and Dublin.
Of particular note market in South Korea cool over 2007. high-tech bubble and September 11.
The current was the 156,000 sq ft 14,492 sq m letting to Hertfordshire County Robust economic growth, rising household incomes, health of the commercial market is reflected in rising Council in Stevenage of two of more leisure time and generally positive population net absorption, falling vacancy rates and increases in Norwich Unions three office growth rates are all factors which have benefited rents in the office, industrial and multifamily sectors.
This letting was the largest office deal of 2006 in the Asian retail economy over recent years.
Commercial real estate markets are expected to Hertfordshire and illustrates the International retailers continue to make in-roads into continue to grow and individual sectors in many areas strong collaboration between new markets while developing markets continue to are seeing tighter vacancy rates and higher rents.
Norwich Union, Hertfordshire County Council and the building experiment with new retail formats.
tourism is having a significant impact on consumption We have also worked with patterns in some areas as mainland Chinese flood Norwich Union to reduce future into Hong Kong and Macau and Japanese travellers rental liabilities by a sum in excess re-visit the region.
After two or three years of rapid of 32m.
rental growth, however, markets such as Hong Kong and Seoul are showing signs of exhaustion while supply-demand imbalances have caused retail rents to stabilise in Beijing and Shanghai.
24 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental Reviews Transactional Advice The Transactional Advice In the residential agency market, the year started with Transactional Advice business stream comprises commercial, residential, great confidence.
The City was buoyant and we saw Provision of a wide range of professional agricultural agency and investment.
During the year a continuation of the strong market which had started property services, including: revenue was 247.2m 2005 166.9m, representing in the second half of 2005.
In Central London, 42% 48% of our total revenue and generating operating of our buyers work in the finance sector and 56% are profits of 48.6m 2005 32.2m.
In addition, 25% of our buyers in London are international purchasers and two-thirds Marketplace Investment markets are becoming of these are looking to spend in excess of 4m.
increasingly global, with cross-border transactions The market remained confident throughout the year, becoming more and more significant.
This is the leading to an excess of demand over supply which driving rationale behind having regional investment forced values even higher.
In Central London, the Services platforms, entering the US market and opening offices market for prime properties rose by 24%, taking Commercial agency and investment Retail and leisure in secondary cities.
our average sale price to 1.45m.
Residential agency, letting Hotels and healthcare and investment Our Investment teams across the UK reported Institutional The new homes market strengthened throughout Development reporting continued interest from investors in all Purchasing advice the year, particularly in London where a shortage in Auctions property sectors with the biggest challenge being a New homes supply of second-hand sales resulted in higher prices.
Farm and estate agency lack of quality investment stock.
We believe the advent Certain provincial cities showed signs of oversupply of REITs will be a positive move for the industry as with marketing incentives required to move stock.
companies transferring into REITs will wish to trade assets to suit their new status.
Certainly, there is likely The farmland market strengthened in 2006 with Performance Revenue m Operating profit m to be increased interest in the regions as investors demand from lifestyle purchasers forcing prices up 05 06 -% 05 06 -% look beyond London due to the continued pressure by 15% to an average of 2,690 per acre.
area of land marketed 180,500 acres increased only Rest of Europe 15.1 32.6 116 3.0 4.3 43 slightly over the previous year 175,700 acres so lack Asia Pacific 29.9 39.6 32 5.2 4.2 19 As office and retail yields compress, investors are now of supply continued to support prices.
Total 166.9 247.2 48 32.2 48.6 51 focusing on other asset classes such as healthcare, leisure and logistics.
It is likely that in 2007 we will see In Asia Pacific, markets remained very competitive and a widening of the yield gap between prime and the challenge to retain and recruit the best talent in secondary stock.
the market was fundamental to the ongoing success Revenue of the business.
02 124.1m An increased presence and strength in the industrial 03 119.4m and logistics markets is enabling us each year to gain Key achievements of 2006 Our Transactional Advice 04 146.3m share in this expanding market.
business saw many highlights during 2006 with key 05 166.9m achievements recorded in all areas of the business.
There is continuing demand from investors both at 06 247.2m UK and international level for all types of investment 2006 was another strong year for the Commercial products and continuing demand from occupiers as Investment team across the UK.
The year saw the team economies improve.
advise on transactions involving in excess of 10bn Operating profit of commercial property, an increase in excess of 25% 02 20.0m on 2005, cementing the teams top three ranking by 03 18.1m revenue amongst agency practices in the UK.
25 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Notable transactions included the Retail Warehousing Our Purchasing Advice business, Prime Purchase, In 2006, our Affordable Housing team advised a number Investment team advising on the disposal on behalf which operates independently, recorded its fifth year of residential and mixed-use developers, helping them of Hercules Unit Trust and Bank of Ireland Private of sustained growth.
New offices were established in to optimise affordable housing obligations driven by Banking of Gallions Reach Shopping Park, Beckton Dorset and Oxfordshire.
The average length of search evolving planning policy.
We assisted Development to Standard Life for 208m.
In Brighton, the Business fell to four months in London and seven months in the Securities plc on a planning application for a mixed-use Space Investment team advised Irish Life Assurance country, with over half of the properties bought for scheme at Oriental City in the London Borough of Brent plc on the 69.2m acquisition of City Park, a new clients secured before they were advertised.
A key and assisted in justifying the level of planning business park let to Legal & General.
In the West End, achievement was the acquisition of the 365 acre contribution made for the scheme.
the Central London Investment team advised Alderley Estate in Gloucestershire.
Our Leisure business provided valuations of the Hendersons Central London Office Fund on the From 22 New Homes offices we sold 4,790 units for Bannatyne Fitness and Livingwell Premier Health 127.4m acquisition of Belgrave House, a substantial 2.1bn and new sales were secured in London on Club chain following acquisition of 24 Livingwell office building let to Google, American Express and properties worth in excess of 1.6bn.
Sales of new Premier Clubs by Bannatyne for approximately 90m.
homes included off-plan sales of all eight houses at The combined portfolio comprised 61 clubs with a During the year, our UK Residential business acquired Phillimore Square for prices in the region of 10m.
Buckleys in Clapham, to enhance our coverage in The entire development, including 35 apartments, Our Farmland business marketed 17.5% 31,823 South West London.
In December we acquired was sold within six months of completion.
acres of land marketed in the UK consolidating our Chesterfield, a practice based in Knightsbridge Our recent investment in the Auction business market-leading position.
The influx of foreign money specialising in the top end of the prime Central produced encouraging early returns.
In the first full into the UK continued with Danish farmers buying London market.
We also opened new residential years trading, the Commercial and Residential teams over 9,700 acres at a cost of around 34m over the offices in Truro, Reigate, Haywards Heath, Bury St produced sales of 412m, up from 278m in 2005. last 12 months.
Edmunds and Locksbottom as well as expanding This comprised 1,171 lots sold, with an average many of our existing teams.
Across both the London In Asia, we opened an agency office in Bangkok in success rate of 87% and an average lot size of and country sectors, we sold 4,236 second-hand 2006, recruiting a team of ten to conduct commercial 352,000.
These figures place us as the third largest units, a 32% increase on the previous year.
Including and residential agency operations in the city as well as auction house in the UK.
the sale of 66 properties over 5m.
Among the most in the coastal resorts of Phuket and Koh Samui.
notable sales was a house in Eaton Square which had Although the Residential business is now mature, it In July 2006, Savills acted for an offshore Korean a guide price of 20m and Bignell Wood near nevertheless produced sales of 215.8m, up from fund to acquire Hopson Tower, an 87,000 sq m office Lyndhurst in Hampshire which once belonged to 177m last year.
We sold 800 lots and achieved an development in Shanghai for US$300m, believed to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
average success rate of 89% and an average sale be the largest single asset transaction undertaken to price of 270,000.
Many Housing Associations and The Residential Investment team was consolidated date in mainland China.
We are beginning to see the Local Authorities use our auctions services as a during the year, enabling us to extend our wide signs of a developing market for commercial property successful sales method.
The Nottingham Auction range of professional and transactional advice to an sales both to private and institutional buyers and our team raised sales to 22.3m from 12m in 2005. ever-increasing mix of clients interested in residential Capital Markets teams in Beijing and Shanghai are This comprised some 121 lots sold and an average products as an asset class.
The Residential well-placed to take market share as the disposition lot price of 184,000.
Investment team was particularly active in forward activity gathers pace.
We also opened new offices in selling off-plan student and residential investment China in Chengdu and Tianjin.
Highlights included the disposal of an entire scheme of over 100 residential units on behalf of Bellway Homes plc and forward selling over 2,500 student bed spaces for various specialist developers.
Annual income m UK Big Sam Bolton, England 27 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental Reviews continued Left In Hong Kong, our Capital Markets team were In 2007 we are aiming to expand our Corporate Big Sam.
We helped secure the responsible for concluding over HK$10.8bn worth Finance capability, working closely with our existing North West regions highest of commercial real estate transactions during 2006. transactional teams.
value distribution letting of 2006, on the Big Sam centre in Bolton.
The team have an enviable reputation in the market We will continue to be involved in the most exclusive place, being responsible for between 35-50% of all Big Sam is a bespoke, developments an example of which is One Hyde Park, cross-docked distribution centre known deal flow in the Hong Kong market, irrespective on behalf of Candy & Candy, project managers for at Wingates Industrial Estate, of whether it is whole block site, collective sales, retail Bolton, close to the M61.
This development will comprise 80 or office industrial.
high specification warehouse of the worlds most sought-after properties, many and office accommodation of In Japan, considerable organic investment was with direct views across Hyde Park.
We recruited a landlord leasing team of During 2006, our Manchester team Our Asia Pacific business continued its growth 12, opened a new serviced office in Osaka, and also let the centre for Arlington and strategy of investment in the region, and will remain developer Barwood.
Handelman a major high street residential office in a key high-value focused on the high value real estate markets through UK, an organisation that distributes ward in Tokyo.
items including CDs for Tesco, 2007.
Our Hong Kong business continues its objective agreed a new 10-year lease at an In Australia, our senior management team was rebased of organic recruitment and maintaining its strong annual rent of 1.17m.
The sites and this incurred some significant restructuring costs.
market position in investment sales and purchase, excellent road connections, together with its high quality Our Sydney business also moved office and secured leasing and property management services.
accommodation, were the key to the services of a Strategic Project Delivery team during Handelmans decision and they In South East Asia we will continue to expand our the year.
Our Perth office managed the off-market sale expect Big Sam to be operational Singaporean business in all real estate service lines and in early 2007. of a private portfolio for a total of AUS$465m.
look to strengthen our brand awareness in Indonesia, Not only was this the North West Future plans Following our strategy of the last two Malaysia and the Philippines through associations with regions highest value letting of the years to strengthen our Investment and Agency teams the premier local real estate service providers.
year, it was also one of the fastest.
The letting was agreed just three through targeted recruitment, we continue to focus Our most significant objective in Asia Pacific will be months after practical completion on ensuring that we have a breadth of outstanding in June 2006. to achieve further penetration into major cities in expertise across all sectors to meet client needs.
Japan, arguably the most difficult real estate market High on our agenda is to establish an investment in Asia, through organic recruitment and small scale business in the US where we are reviewing a number acquisitions.
The development of our business in the of options.
Japanese market requires taking a long-term view, the significant benefits of which will take several years We also aim to add further specialist investment to materialise.
services, including additional recruitment to our Private Client department.
This business experienced an exceptional year in 2006 and we see a clear opportunity to improve our service in what is an increasingly important and expanding market.
Following the exceptional performance of the Investment teams in our eight established European markets, our strategy is to continue growth via recruitment and to use our reputation and market share to improve brand recognition and strengthen our European presence.
28 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental Reviews continued Right into one of the pre-eminent fashion Consultancy Our Consultancy business generates Consultancy Quarry retail park.
The total area fee income from a wide range of professional property Provision of a wide range of professional Since acquiring the site for has increased to 82,498 sq ft services including valuation, building consultancy, Henderson Global Investors, 7,665 sq m and tenant numbers property services, including: we have helped The Quarry have risen by five to 15.
Further landlord and tenant, rating, planning, strategic Retail Park become one of asset management is currently projects and research.
Operating profit for the year Scotlands most successful underway and we are achieving was 16.4m 2005 12.8m on revenue of 98.8m fashion retail destinations.
record levels of rent on new lettings up to 42.50 per sq ft compared 2005 71.9m.
After acquiring The Quarry as with a top rent of 25 per sq ft an Open Class 1 retail park for Marketplace The continuing attractiveness of on acquisition.
Henderson Global Investors in commercial property as an investment class, as well 2001, we were subsequently The Quarry is an excellent retained to provide management example of Savills showing their as recovery of the office leasing markets throughout services, including asset retail warehouse expertise across Europe led to strong demand for consultancy management and rent reviews.
all professional disciplines of the Services services across Europe.
Development activity picked sector, said Andrew Friend, Valuation Landlord and tenant At the time of the initial acquisition, up steadily in 2006 and this, combined with strong Fund Manager, Henderson Retail we had also identified potential Building consultancy Rating Warehouse Fund.
From the initial investor interest in the sector, stimulated demand for in a nearby former head office acquisition through to the asset Housing consultancy Planning building.
This site was purchased building consultancy, planning and valuation services management and review process Affordable housing and Strategic projects by Henderson Global Investors in particular.
and the redevelopment of Miller student accommodation in 2005 and re-developed into Research House, they have utilised all their 45,500 sq ft 4,227 sq m of retail During the year there was strong growth in all areas skills and been focused on adding accommodation, with pre-lettings value to the Fund.
The park has of UK Valuations.
planned to Arcadia, Next, New been transformed and we are Look and Clarks.
TK Maxx and Performance Revenue m Operating profit m delighted with its performance.
2006 saw positive rental growth returning to the Marks and Spencer have also now Savills continued efforts have 05 06 -% 05 06 -% majority of markets, in particular the London West End opened units at The Quarry and the been key to the parks success.
park has been transformed from a UK 62.3 82.0 32 11.8 15.0 27 office market.
predominantly bulky goods line-up Rest of Europe 2.1 5.3 152 0.3 0.7 133 Key achievements of 2006 Savills Commercial Asia Pacific 7.5 11.5 53 0.7 0.7 Valuation department has been nominated for Total 71.9 98.8 37 12.8 16.4 28 Professional Agency Team of the Year Valuation at the Property Week Awards Ceremony on 17 April 2007.
We value investment and development properties Revenue across the commercial, residential and mixed-use 02 43.0m sectors, both in the UK and Europe.
We act for all 03 49.1m the main banks, providing independent valuations for 04 59.3m loan security purposes and also providing advice to 05 71.9m investment banks seeking to acquire financial stakes 06 98.8m in major portfolios.
800 property lenders attended our annual Financing Property Presentations in June 2006 in London City, London West End, Manchester, Edinburgh and Dublin, the latter in conjunction with Operating profit Savills Hamilton Osborne King.
Of the development 6.3m 02 projects valued in 2006, the completed development 03 7.6m values were as follows: 35 exceeded 100m, 15 were 04 10.9m between 200m and 500m, seven were between 05 12.8m 500m and 1bn, and five were above 1bn.
06 16.4m Figures for 2002 and 2003 were not prepared under IFRS.
UK Quarry Retail Park Edinburgh, Scotland Europe Via Lorenteggio 255 Milan, Italy 31 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental reviews continued Left High profile instructions include: The Gherkin, Landlord & Tenant with teams in London City and Milan, Italy.
Our Milan-based One Hyde Park, Middlesex Hospital and The London West End and throughout the country has continued investment team acted on Stock Exchange.
to win a plethora of high profile instructions in the behalf of clients in the sale of a number of major buildings office, retail warehouse, retail and industrial sectors.
The year was characterised by extraordinary growth during 2006. in residential values in prime Central London with our In 2006 we represented over 50 landlord clients in the 2006 saw our investment team in Private Bank Valuation team valuing 35 houses and out of town retail sector and acted on over 3m sq ft. Milan work on the sales of several of the citys important buildings.
flats with capital values of between 10m and 32m We were also retained on some of the highest value in London and the Home Counties.
single let office properties throughout Central London For example, we worked with one of Milans biggest developers on and having one of the most senior and established the sale of two buildings to AXA The Residential Valuation department in London teams in this niche specialisation, are well placed to REIM, for around150m, reflecting increased its staff by 30% resulting in a 50% increase capitalise upon the enhanced rental growth predicted an average gross yield in the region in revenue in our Loan Security and Landlord and of 6.75%.
Both buildings, one of within not only Central London but also the provinces.
The key strategy of this department which is a distinctive tower in Via Lorenteggio, are let to Vodafone.
is to develop teams of individual specialists across Our expertise in this specialisation was complemented Although we acted for the the business.
This has resulted in retention as valuers during the year by the acquisition of Blair Kirkman and vendor on this particular sale, to a number of the national house builders, such as with that the synergy of an established and highly the transaction brought our involvement with AXA REIM in Ballymore Properties Limited where we work on their respected team with a bias towards the high street, 2006 to the1100m mark.
shopping centres and food stores.
We now have one The team also acted for Milanofiori of the most senior and experienced Landlord and Commercial Building consultancy with principal 2000 Srl Brioschi Finanziaria Tenant teams in the country with leading specialists Group, in the sale of two buildings offices based in London, Manchester, Birmingham to cover all sectors.
p. A, on behalf and Glasgow continued to expand throughout 2006. of Fondo Polis.
These buildings Each office continued to recruit senior high calibre staff The Lease Management team provided strategic totalled 279,870 sq ft 26,000 sq m, and were sold for a combined sum in order to focus on high value projects.
dilapidations advice on 1.5m sq ft of dilapidations of191.25m.
Currently under and expert instructions totalling 31m in value, construction with completion The Technical Due Diligence and Project Monitoring and contract administered some 2.3m of works.
expected in 2008, the properties team were particularly active in Europe in the last 12 form part of the prestigious On average they reduced landlords claims by 66%.
months having advised on over 20 property portfolios, Milanofiori Nord project and On one Romford warehouse they were able to comprising offices, retail and care homes in excess of we are pleased to have been reduce a landlords 1.7m dilapidations claim by 95%.
1.8m sq m and over a2.5bn in value, in nine European They advised on 33 new service charge audits and The Milanofiori transaction was countries.
The largest single property was the Cevahir expert instructions for notable clients such as Mapeley significant both for the strategic Centre in Istanbul, one of Europes largest shopping STEPS and American Express.
importance of the project and centres.
In addition to European work, we have been the scale of the sum achieved.
The fact that these companies are active advising investment clients on new build retail investing in ground-breaking new schemes at White City London and Victoria Square development schemes highlights Belfast, two London landmark office buildings and continuing investor confidence in two student housing schemes.
Other projects the Milanese and Italian markets.
included Triton Court and Milton and Shire House in the City of London for PropInvest and Beacon Capital respectively and major portfolios of hotels, car showrooms and restaurant chains.
32 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental Reviews continued Our Project Management team was responsible The telecoms sector continues to dominate In Housing Consultancy, a key project of 2006 was for advising on and delivering office fit out and our Strategic Projects business.
We are rolling out the strategic asset appraisal of Glasgow Housing refurbishment projects totalling more than 1m sq ft. the mobile phone operators networks in spite of the Associations 74,000 unit housing stock.
Our teams in The occupier fit out sector remains buoyant and a much publicised uncertainty of the take-up of the Bristol, York, Birmingham and the City also continued key market, however, with the benefit of the teams technology.
As the sector matures, operators are to perform well and were strengthened by the extensive experience and broad skill base, their focus focusing on identifying opportunities to reduce acquisition of PCA Holdings Limited, a 14 strong and growth is towards larger scale refurbishment and expenditure.
For example, we have been awarded a specialist team based in St Albans.
redevelopment projects on behalf of landlord, developer three year project by Siemens to reduce Vodafones Our Research team provided valuable input to and investor clients, where value enhancement from BT fixed line rental costs.
The second main contributor Land Securities on the development of 10,000 growing levels of second hand stock is absolutely to our Strategic Projects business is landowner liaison new homes at Ebbsfleet Valley in Kent Thameside.
crucial towards realising maximum return.
We work with both Scottish and Southern This is a good example of the way in which our Energy Ltd and EDF Energy, helping their construction The Industrial Building consultancy has continued approach can help the development of larger teams refurbish high voltage overhead lines.
to expand over the past 12 months.
We helped to provide answers to a specialist pre acquisition and project management A complex mix of overall housing scarcity and number of important issues concerning the type of support for our leading developer clients on over localised market saturation is proving to be fruitful environment that can be created at Ebbsfleet, taking 3m sq ft of new distribution space.
We also provided ground for our Residential Market Research on board the existing housing stock in the area and due diligence and asset monitoring for a range of consultancy, with most of our investor and developer substantial volumes of competition.
We also looked at funds across 2.5m sq ft of industrial development.
clients now insisting on research as part of a total potential demand and how values could be enhanced Our principal clients include Gazeley, Helios Properties, advisory service.
In fact in some cases, scheme by the high quality design aspirations of our client.
MetLife Investments, Mothercare and Terrace Hill.
In Hong Kong and China, the Valuation team of In the social housing sector, our specialist Stock Our Planning teams based across the UK also 35 which were recruited in 2005 continued to Condition Survey and Procurement Advice team had achieved a record year, advising on a wide variety of increase their presence in the Hong Kong, Macau another busy year, carrying out a record number of projects across the UK.
Our London based Planning and mainland China markets.
surveys and substantially increasing our market share.
team, handled several high profile development During 2006, our Valuation and Professional The sector looks set to remain buoyant and we projects, among them the Arsenal regeneration Services team in Hong Kong were involved in the are well placed to continue to expand our business scheme which has won several awards, including property valuations associated with the listing of in this specialist area.
Regeneration Magazines Best Mixed Use Project in 16 separate IPO and notifiable transactions on the 2006 and the Mayor of Londons Award for Planning During the year we expanded our Capital Allowances Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Included in these were Excellence.
In the regions, important successes team to take advantage of the strong investment markets.
the Sunlight REIT, Champion REIT, China Coal and included the allocation of a 1,200 house urban Energy Company and China Communications extension at Andover for Persimmon Homes, and the Services Company.
securing of detailed planning consent for a flagship regeneration project at Ocean Village, Southampton, for MDL Developments.
33 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review In Australia, we were appointed by Australia Post to At the start of 2007, we acquired Hepher Dixon, the value their property portfolio annually for the next three award-winning national planning and regeneration years.
The portfolio comprises 450 properties worth in specialists.
With 160 planning and related professionals excess of AUS$1bn.
operating across 12 offices nationwide, we can integrate planning and regeneration skills with Also in Australia the Strategic Project Delivery team residential, commercial and mixed use property has an ongoing appointment for the Sydney Opera consultancy.
Our enhanced environmental, urban House known as the Venue Improvement Plan.
design and master planning skills mean that we are This will encompass strategic planning staging, well equipped to embrace the new planning policy authority approvals, brief preparation, detailed design framework and the emerging sustainable development, and construction for the NSW State Government.
energy efficiency and climate change agendas.
Future plans In line with our new strategy, we will The strategy of our Development business is to create continue to invest in new teams of high quality people strong and diverse development teams which offer both who are able to drive our growth.
For example, consultancy and agency services.
This broad range a major new initiative for 2007 will be the creation of services not only meets our clients requirements of a new pan-European Valuation team based in in the public and private sectors but also provides a London but working closely with colleagues in Europe.
sustainable and balanced income stream.
This team will expand our capability in order to meet the growing demand from London based clients for For 2007, the Strategic Projects team is looking closely quality valuation advice in Europe.
at the renewable energy sector and has a contract to roll out a large number of small two to five megawatt In the Netherlands, the aim is to develop a recognised combined heat and power plants throughout the UK.
due diligence advisory practice, following on from our success in Sweden.
It is anticipated that as the listed property trust market in Asia gathers momentum, the need to During 2007, we will expand several of our teams into appoint independent valuation and research the UK regions, including Hotels Valuation, Capital consultants will increase and Savills is well-positioned Allowances and Building Consultancy where we to secure a substantial share of that business.
already have ongoing recruitment plans in operation in Glasgow, Manchester and Birmingham.
Our Hotels Our Australian and Hong Kong Valuation teams are Valuation capability will also be extended into Europe working closely together to utilise their combined where we aim to exploit the increasing demand for experience in a bid to secure more of the growing professional services.
listed property trust requirement for valuation services.
34 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental Reviews continued Property and Facilities Management Our Property Our Facilities Management business in Hong Kong Property and Facilities Management and Facilities Management business continued to grow, has had to come to terms with the introduction of the Management of commercial, residential and generating fee income from managing commercial, Wage Protection Movement for Cleansing & Security agricultural property for owners.
During the year, Guards which pushed up wage costs in the private Provision of a comprehensive range of revenue was 137.2m 2005 104.5m, generating sector.
Nevertheless, the market remains robust and services to occupiers of property, ranging an operating profit of 9.9m 2005 7.5m.
the strong economy is offsetting the pressure on from strategic advice through project fee levels.
Marketplace Property Management remains a fiercely management to all services relating to competitive market sector throughout the UK and Key achievements of 2006 Our Property Management a building.
Legislative changes in many areas including business continued to grow across the UK and Europe: Health and Safety and Employment law ensure that we established new management teams in Bristol liabilities for managing agents continue to increase and Leeds.
The acquisition of Hamilton Osborne year on year.
Robust commercial practical procedures King introduced a new income stream within the are required to ensure these changes do not become Irish market, whilst our UK team secured significant Services onerous for management companies.
This included our appointment Facilities management harden, landlords reliance on managing agents ability as managing agents on behalf of Resolution Asset Commercial management to assist with asset management initiatives increases Management.
At the same time, portfolios under Land and farm management as does the need for an agent to be able to management on behalf of many existing clients accommodate portfolios including holdings across including British Land, GE Commercial Finance Europe, not solely in the UK.
Real Estate and Reef increased notably.
Performance Revenue m Operating profit m The Rural Management business saw significant The Rural Management business expanded 05 06 -% 05 06 -% change in 2006 with CAP reforms generating a substantially, taking on 18 significant new estates UK 39.8 43.6 10 4.1 4.1 marked improvement in confidence.
This was further across the country totalling 64,000 acres.
A key Rest of Europe 4.7 10.2 117 0.1 0.1 enhanced by a rise in soft commodity prices and the instruction was St. Johns College, Cambridge, where Asia Pacific 60.0 83.4 39 3.5 5.9 69 prospect of enhanced demand for bio crops to drive we advised on the strategic review and management of Total 104.5 137.2 31 7.5 9.9 32 an increase in land values and farm profitability.
New clients have also resulted from our close involvement with our Agency The Property Management business in China teams in the UK by Danish buyers.
continued to grow as local developers increasingly Revenue seek international service providers to maintain their In Asia Pacific, the Property and Facilities Management 02 86.2m buildings to very high standards, and maximise business is pursuing its continuing growth path in 03 85.4m holding value through proven asset management mainland China, Macau and Hong Kong.
In Hong Kong the market remains healthy, 05 104.5m although there is increasing competition amongst 06 137.2m the major players.
In Australia, the business is seeing increasing pressure on margins as the listed and unlisted property trusts attempt to squeeze operating Operating profit costs to maintain some form of positive yield over 4.9m 02 lending costs.
35 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review In Beijing, Savills secured the mandate for the Yin In order to better service new and existing clients, Tai Centre, a Grade A office building in the central we are opening a new Property Management business district of 750,000 sq ft, and the Xidan Mall, department in Bristol and are continuing to expand also in Beijing, which is a mixed development of retail the teams in Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham and and offices of over 200,000 sq ft.
In addition, we are expanding our services Savills was awarded the asset management for the in Germany, where there is great demand from Vicwood Plaza, together with 181 Queens Road which international investors.
comprise a total ground floor area of 750,000 sq ft. Property management continues to be a priority In accordance with the strategy to penetrate key growth service in Asia where we have an established high-value real estate markets, we acquired a 55% reputation and where the margins and quality of income stake in leading Korean businesses in 2006. are high.
Where there are clear synergies to be gained, The business has 14.7m sq ft of mostly Grade A we are also actively considering growth through the prime office and retail in Seoul under management.
acquisition of niche property management businesses.
In addition, the business secured a major asset The growing need for proven international expertise management instruction in Busan, including office, in the Property and Facility Management business in retail and residential and requiring an on-site team China will enable us to increase our presence into the of six.
With the opening of Chengdu and Tianjin in 2006, we now have seven offices in mainland In Macau, we opened a full service office to China, with the possibility of several more in 2007. take advantage of the huge increase in property management activity generated by developments in the gaming and entertainment business.
Our Facility Management business in Hong Kong was awarded the contract for the EcoPark in Tuen Mun Hong Kong as it seeks to expand its service lines into related avenues.
The contract was awarded to Savills Guardian on its technical qualities, rather than on the lowest bid basis.
Future plans Property management remains of high importance to us as a source of high quality, secure income and not just as an extension to our other services.
It is an opportunity for us to work closely with clients to improve and enhance value through active, hands-on asset management.
We employ the highest quality managers, which is an important factor in our ability to attract new clients.
We aim to expand our portfolios under management, across all sectors in the UK.
This expansion will be serviced by all our offices, with particular emphasis on London and the shopping centre market.
Asia Pacific Perth property portfolio Perth, Western Australia Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Left These high quality buildings are Perth property portfolio.
a good fit within our portfolio and In one of Western Australias strengthen the overall standards largest deals of the year, of assets we hold in high-demand our Perth office managed the CBD locations, said GE Real Estate $465m off-market sale of a Director Australian Investments, private portfolio.
Towards the end of the year, Savills WA transacted more than our Perth office managed the $1bn in commercial property in off-market sale of Perth property 2006, which included the second magnate Ralph Sarichs portfolio, largest portfolio sale of over $200m with GE Real Estate snapping to GE from vendor Security Capital up the four A-grade properties Corporation and Property Bank for a combined total of $465m Australia.
for office accommodation over some 269,100 sq ft 25,000 sq m GE acquired the following during 2006. properties from the Sarich familys investment company Cape Bouvard Investments: Allendale Square, Perth, a 301,392 sq ft 28,000 sq m office tower on 31 levels including a major food court, retail arcade and 109 car spaces: 12 The Esplanade, Perth, a boutique seven level 86,112 sq ft 8,000 sq m office building: 99 Walker Street, North Sydney, a 20 level office building with a net lettable area of 189,446 sq ft 17,600 sq m : and 99 Collins Street, Melbourne, a 21 level property with an area of 228,197 sq ft 21,200 sq m. 38 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental Reviews continued Financial Services The Financial Services division Future plans We will continue to follow our strategy Financial Services comprises Savills Private Finance Limited SPF, of selective diversification and expect to see further Mortgage broking, financial planning and which provides residential mortgage broking services, progress within our Channel Islands business, our corporate finance advice.
commercial debt broking services, commercial and affordable mortgage operation SPF Sherwins and private insurance services and associated financial the International Mortgage team.
The division made an operating Residential Mortgage broking business now operates profit of 4.0m 2005 4.3m on revenue of 26.9m from 18 offices and we expect further growth through 2005 25.8m.
Part of our strategy will be for closer co-operation in terms of deal flow between Savills L&P, our residential Marketplace The 2006 UK mortgage market was and general practice surveying business, and SPF.
valued at around 340bn, of which approximately 50% was accounted for by the remortgage business.
There is an increasing impact of regulation in the market and Services we aim to be in the forefront to ensure that we follow the Residential mortgage broking services highest standards.
Commercial debt broking services Insurance services Interest rates rose in both November 2006 and Right The project involved the Cardiff International Sports remediation of the entire site and Financial planning services January 2007, and this will undoubtedly have an Village.
A 1.2bn, 32 hectare careful environmental planning at impact on the buy-to-let mortgage market as the regeneration project in Cardiff the waters edge.
The project is to Bay to provide residential, hotel, pressure on yields increases.
The base rate remains create more than 3,000 new jobs, swimming pool, multi-purpose 4.5 million visitors a year with a historically low for the UK but the cumulative effect Performance Revenue m Operating profit m arena, casino and sports potential spend of 190m.
Savills of the recent rises may have some influence on facilities based around the sold the 12.5 acre residential part 05 06 -% 05 06 -% themes of water, snow and ice.
affordability, particularly at the lower to middle sectors of the site in 2006 for 31.0m and UK 25.8 26.9 4 4.3 4.0 7 have been retained for future of the market.
Our National Development team Rest of Europe planning and consultancy advice.
working on behalf of Orion Land Asia Pacific With major lenders now focusing on retention & Leisure and Laing ORoulke Special Projects assisted in of existing customers, it is possible that the overall Total 25.8 26.9 4 4.3 4.0 7 securing a development agreement market may shrink, but we are confident of increasing for this major waterside retail, our market share.
commercial, leisure and residential redevelopment from Cardiff County Revenue Key achievements of 2006 The 2006 performance Council in 2004, following a rigorous 02 12.0m tender process.
Strong contributions were made by 03 15.5m all areas of the business, most notably from the 04 20.1m Commercial Debt Broking team which continued 05 25.8m to excel in the areas of healthcare, leisure and 06 26.9m investment.
Increased regulation in this market has inevitably resulted in additional costs.
As part of our policy of being best in class we have invested substantially in improving our compliance systems Operating profit and operating procedures.
The residential mortgage 1.6m 02 market remained strong despite additional operating 03 3.4m costs and the business continued to trade well.
UK Cardiff International Sports Village Cardiff Bay, Wales 40 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Segmental Reviews continued Fund Management The Fund Management Marketplace There has been a steady rise in allocations Fund Management business, Cordea Savills, made an operating profit to property as an asset class by institutions and private Investment management of commercial and for 2006 of 0.8m 2005 0.6m on revenue of investors over the past few years.
However, as yields residential property portfolios for institutional 7.2m 2005 4.7m.
Although revenue was in line have compressed across European property markets, or retail investors, on a pooled or segregated with expectations, the operating profit was below investors are becoming increasingly discerning in their account basis.
plan principally due to abortive costs incurred in investment requirements.
With investment in pooled the second half of the year relating to products that funds, investors are seeking fund managers with an did not launch due to short-term market weakness.
investment strategy designed to achieve above market Expenditure on infrastructure development accelerated returns, a team of experienced investment professionals sharply throughout the year in line with the budgeted with proven transaction capabilities and tax-efficient expansion of the business.
Funds under management structures through which to invest.
Cordea Savills is increased to 2.1bn.
now well positioned to meet such requirements.
Cordea Savills was formed three years ago to grow Key achievements of 2006 In a strongly performing the existing UK-based Fund Management division property market, we managed to achieve superior Services into an independent and international property fund returns for most funds.
For example, we are once Property Investment products manager.
We have now developed a European again on target to outperform the benchmark for Discretionary and advisory portfolio management investment and business platform, employing our largest pension fund client, something we have 50 people in offices in London, Milan, Munich and achieved in every year except one since 1988.
With this significant expenditure in infrastructure, Several of our existing funds also grew in size during Performance Revenue m Operating profit m we anticipate strong growth in revenues going the year, such as the Charities Property Fund, which 05 06 -% 05 06 -% forward, as we invest capital raised over the last increased from 309m to 376m, and Europa UK 4.7 7.2 53 0.6 0.8 33 two years and launch further funds.
1, which increased its gross asset Rest of Europe management in the current year are expected to rise value from1286m to 1460m.
Asia Pacific by over 1bn from growth of existing funds and a Total 4.7 7.2 53 0.6 0.8 33 strong new product pipeline.
We launched a number of new funds during the year including: Italian Opportunities No.
1, a vehicle which Clients are principally institutions, private investors, draws on our strong local presence to deliver attractive family offices, charities and fund of fund managers.
returns and which, based on the equity raised is Revenue The increasing internationalisation of property is expected to have a gross asset value of 1800m: 02 reflected in our client base which is drawn from Serviced Land No.
2, which follows on from the 03 European countries and Asia.
successful original fund dealing in residential land in 04 3.6m the UK: the Student Hall Fund, which offers long-term 05 4.7m secure income streams in an undersupplied UK 06 7.2m market: and the Accommodation Investment Fund for Charities, which is a diversified UK residential fund.
Operating profit 02 03 04 0.5m 05 0.6m 06 0.8m Figures for 2002 and 2003 were not prepared under IFRS.
41 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Overleaf left Overleaf right Future plans The success of our business is The Omnibus Building.
We acted dependent on our ability to create innovative We provided occupational for a client on a mixed-use investment opportunities and deliver performance.
and investment advice to the retail complex in Stockholm, owners of a Grade II listed the largest single asset Understanding the requirements of clients, matching former bus station site, leading transaction carried out these with investment opportunities and delivering up to its 27m sale.
in Sweden during 2006. performance is central to our business.
Since Pace Investments Limited The Sturegallerian comprises originally acquired a Grade II listed 11 retail, office, leisure and We have a pan-European investment capability and bus station site on Lesbourne residential properties, along are in the process of launching further European funds Road in Reigate in 1997, we have with extensive garage facilities.
designed to meet the particular needs of Italian and provided valuable occupational Comprising 645,855 sq ft and investment advice.
This has 60,000 sq m, it is home to German institutions.
This strategy is complemented included acting in a formal capacity several well-known restaurants by market and sector specific funds.
as letting agents and closely together with the famous health monitoring the property in relation spa, Sturebadet, founded in 1885.
In response to the increasing globalisation of capital to the investment market.
Sturegallerian also includes a flows and demand for property investment, we are shopping centre, established in Over time, Pace redeveloped the 1989, which specialises in smaller, investigating investment opportunities and new site into the Omnibus Building, high profile niche tenants and product lines in a selected number of Asian markets.
a three-storey self-contained office attracts more than five million property with a striking atrium and visitors every year.
During 2006, Savills plc provided capital to support glazed interior.
The development, which comprises 64,247 sq ft During 2006, we acted on behalf growth, particularly in relation to fund launches and is 5,968 sq m of office space with of a private client of AXA Real continuing to support the business in the current year.
228 car parking spaces, was 50% Estate Investment Managers We believe that Cordea Savills is about to enter a let to Surrey County Council on AXA REIM, to secure the site period of accelerated and sustained growth, which completion in 2001.
Due to the from Diligentia AB, the real estate market downturn, the Omnibus arm of Skandia Life.
Although the will result in an increasing need for capital to both Building remained only partly let sale price remains undisclosed, co-invest in funds and purchase seed assets.
As such, until 2006. it represented the years largest the partners of Cordea Savills LLP consider that this single asset transaction carried Pace sold the building in September out in Sweden.
is now the appropriate time to bring in an additional 2006 to GP Nominees Limited strategic investor to help maximise opportunities for c o Morley Fund Management The centre was secured despite for 27m.
The price represented intense competition and interest clients and enhance shareholder value.
British Linen a net initial yield of 5.34%, from a number of domestic and Advisers have been appointed to provide advice in with average unexpired lease other international investors, relation to this strategic investment, which is expected terms of only six years.
which demonstrates the high level of investor demand in the to be concluded within the first half of 2007.
The progress of Omnibus has Nordic region.
mirrored the local office market over the past 10 years, commented Johnny Vincent, Managing Director of Pace Investments Limited.
However, since the market has recovered during the past 12-18 months we have secured good tenants for the remainder of the property, which has contributed to the final sale price achieved.
UK The Omnibus Building Reigate, England Europe The Sturegallerian Stockholm, Sweden 44 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Financial Review Financial highlights During 2006, the Group acquired Blair Kirkman LLP, The Groups financial instruments comprise The key financial information for the year was as Chesterfield and Co.
Rentals Limited, Buckleys borrowings, some cash and liquid resources and follows: Estate Agents Limited and PCA Holdings Limited various other items such as trade receivables and for an aggregate consideration of 20.5m.
trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
Underlying Group operating margins of 13.7% Further details of financial instruments are provided 2005 14.3%.
Earnings per share and dividend EPS growth is the in Note 24 of these Report and Accounts.
Strong cash balances with a year-end balance change in EPS year on year adjusted for share based of 124.1m.
payments, amortisation of intangibles and impairment Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations A very strong performance from Asia Pacific this of goodwill and profit on disposals.
Basic earnings through a mixture of retained profits and bank year with turnover up 38% and underlying profit per share amounted to 46.3p 2005 33.6p.
borrowings, at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Underlying basic earnings per share from continuing Liquidity risk The Group prepares an annual funding operations amounted to 40.8p 2005 33.3p.
Acquisitions and disposals In order to deliver our plan approved by the Board which sets out the strategy, during the year we completed a number of The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11p Groups expected financing requirements for the next acquisitions and disposals of businesses or interests net, making 16p for the full year, a 33% increase 12 months.
These requirements will be met with our in ventures, both in the UK in aggregate 21.1m on last year.
The decision to increase our dividend is existing net cash balance and expected cash flows for and overseas in aggregate 50.9m including: both a reflection on profits and in line with our current the year as well as long-term borrowings to support progressive dividend policy.
our growth strategy if required.
In January 2006, the Group disposed of its 13.72% shareholding in Fastcrop plc, owner of Key performance indicators Foreign currency risk Our policy is for each the Primelocation website at a profit after costs The Group uses a number of key performance business to borrow in local currencies where possible.
indicators to measure its performance and highlight The Group does not actively seek to hedge risks On 3 January 2006, the Group acquired an initial the impact of management actions.
At Group level, arising from foreign currency transactions due to their 50% share in each of Korea Asset Advisors the three most visible indicators are profit growth, non-cash nature and the high costs associated with and BHP Korea to expand Asian operations total shareholder return and earnings per share.
further and take advantage of the attractive, Financial policies and risk management Borrowing Although we have continued to invest high growth market.
On 19 December 2006, The Group has financial risk management policies substantially during the year, we still maintain a low a further 5% of the share capital was acquired.
which cover financial risks considered material to the gearing.
17.9m of loan notes are in issue, mostly The total consideration was 8.9m.
These policies are in relation to the acquisitions of HOK 11.8m and On 28 April 2006, the Groups investment in the reviewed regularly and approved by the Board to ensure Blair Kirkman 4.3m during the year.
Student Halls Long Lease 1 Unit Trust was sold compliance and policies that reflect best practice.
at carrying value of 16.5m with 1.0m invested The Group retains overdraft facilities with its bankers in the new Cordea Savills Student Hall Fund.
Treasury policies and objectives The Group Treasury of 8.9m, which is currently not utilised.
On 13 June 2006, the Group acquired Hamilton policy is designed to reduce the financial risks faced Net interest Net finance income is 3.7m Osborne King HOK in Ireland for consideration by the Group, which primarily relate to funding and 2005 3.5m.
Higher operating cash flows and of 39.4m, in line with our strategy to grow Savills liquidity, interest rate exposure and currency rate increased average deposit rates gave rise to increased across all the key markets where our clients exposures.
The Group does not engage in trades of a cash balances and a slight movement on last year.
The Group uses derivative financial On 1 July 2006, the Group disposed of its investment instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Taxation The taxation charge reduced marginally to in Managed Office Solutions for a profit after costs 30.3% of the profit before tax compared with 30.4% of 0.5m.
45 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Group Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review Capital and shareholders interests At 31 December 2006, the Groups cash at bank and Forward looking statement Minority interests Minority interests increased to on short-term deposit amounted to 124.1m.
This was In preparing this Group Chief Executives Review 4.3m 2005 0.6m and reflects acquisitions and deposited with banks and financial institutions with top of Operations and Financial Review, whilst we have increased profits during the year.
credit ratings for periods not exceeding six months, provided a detailed management commentary to match known outgoings.
on our markets, activities and prospects all forward Share capital At the AGM on 10 May 2006, the looking statements and forecasts involve risk and shareholders passed a resolution that the existing Future liquidity The Groups existing net cash balance uncertainty because they relate to events and depend ordinary share capital of the Company be split: each and expected cash flows for the year provides the upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
existing 5p ordinary share was divided into two new Group with substantial resources to fund operating ordinary shares of 2.5p.
The share split became and investment activities.
The Group also has undrawn effective on 11 May 2006.
Relevant figures in these facilities of 8.9m however, in order to achieve our Report and Accounts have been adjusted to reflect this.
growth strategy we may arrange long-term borrowings if required.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, 570,000 shares were issued to participants in the Savills plc Net assets United Kingdom Executive Share Option Scheme Net assets continue to grow with an increase and 1,516,788 shares to participants in the Savills of 26% from 31 December 2005 to 212.8m.
No shares were issued to the Goodwill has increased significantly from 54.3m Aubrey Adams Group Chief Executive QUEST or repurchased for cancellation during the to 99.9m largely due to the 22.5m Hamilton year.
Following the placing of Savills shares on Osborne King goodwill capitalised.
11 January 2007 by CBRE upon its acquisition of Pension scheme Trammell Crow Company we repurchased 3.5m During the year the Company and the Trustees shares for cancellation.
The total number of ordinary undertook a review of the Pension Plan of Savills shares in issue at 31 December 2006 was 135.1m and a number of rule changes were made to 2005 133m.
accommodate and meet the legislation changes Cash flow and liquidity effective from 6 April 2006.
Cash generated from operations is defined as cash International financial reporting standards earned from the principal revenue-producing activities No new standards or interpretations recently issued of the Group that are not financing or investing are likely to have a material effect on the Group.
This is a key indicator for the ability to During 2006, the International Accounting Standards maintain our operating capability, pay dividends and Board announced that it will not mandate any new make new investments without external financing.
International Financial Reporting Standards before Net cash inflow from operating activities totalled 2009, providing stability on the IFRS platform in the 76.1m 2005 32.6m which, after allowing for cash short-term.
flows including taxation, dividends, investments and capital expenditure, produced a net increase in cash of 27.8m 2005 7.5m.
