OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OFR BUSINESS OVERVIEW UK COAL is the UKs largest coal producer and the owner of a substantial land portfolio.
It operates both underground collieries and surface mines, actively manages and develops its large property portfolio and runs its own power generation business from renewable and waste gas sources.
The Group manages its activities in four business segments: underground coal mining, known as deep mining: surface coal mining: property, trading as Harworth Estates: and power generation, trading as Harworth Power.
The Group is based entirely in the UK and the vast majority of its sales are to UK customers.
Deep mining The deep mining business includes all deep mining operations and support services including Centechnology UK Limited which provides contract labour to the Group and externally.
Deep mining also has a captive insurance company which insures the Group for employee and public liabilities.
In the year the Group operated five ongoing deep mines - Daw Mill, Kellingley, Maltby, Thoresby and Welbeck.
Two mines, Harworth and Rossington, ceased production in the year, with Harworth being mothballed and Rossington closed.
Subsequently, in February this year, the Maltby mine has been sold.
Surface mining The surface mining business currently comprises four active surface mines at Maidens Hall, Stobswood North and Stony Heap, all in North East England, and Cutacre in Lancashire.
Property Harworth Estates controls over 47,500 acres 19,222 hectares of freehold land in England and Scotland.
This includes a significant browneld development land bank with mixed use employment sites and increasing residential and other land opportunities.
Power generation Harworth Power captures waste methane from deep mines and converts this to electricity.
It supplies this electricity both internally and externally to the local electricity distribution network.
Harworth Power also engages in other renewable energy projects including the development of wind farms by progressing planning applications in respect of Group land.
STRATEGY The Groups strategy is: To produce coal economically and develop economic coal reserves, whilst continually reviewing operations and, if necessary, ceasing to mine where it becomes uneconomic either currently or prospectively, unsafe or has unacceptably high risks To create value from the active management of our land portfolio and the gaining of planning consents and regeneration and development of appropriate browneld sites within this portfolio To develop further our power generation activities UK Coal 06 Report 12.3.
07. indd 10 12 3 07 18:50:29 OBJECTIVES The Groups objectives are: Deep mining To continually improve safety in our operations To reduce risk and variability in safety and operational performance To minimise face gaps and associated costs To reduce operating cost per Gigajoule GJ year on year Surface mining To develop and grow surface mining output, bringing reserves through planning applications and consent at economic cost and price Property To identify a long-term supply of development sites and to promote these sites through the planning process To participate in developing our sites where we believe this will optimise shareholder returns To actively manage and develop rental investment properties and maximise returns from these through asset enhancement, rental growth and or disposal Power generation To grow the profitability and, where appropriate, capacity, of our methane-based power generation To develop a profitable alternative renewable energy business KEY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group operates in a mining industry which carries inherent risk, and is subject to market and other external risks which cannot be fully controlled or mitigated, and which may have a material effect on the reputation or financial condition, performance and prospects of the Group.
The OFR does not aim to identify all risks.
However, the Board believes the following to be the most significant risks: Fluctuations in coal prices and exchange rates Major unforeseeable production shortfalls or geological constraints Property market downturn or volatility Major changes to the planning regime for consent for property or mining development 11 UK Coal 06 Report 12.3.
