Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives statement Our primary objective is to create shareholder value.
This requires: To deliver this we: The retention of the right skills and experience.
Have a very strong focus on the quality and An understanding of clients needs so that we profitability of underwriting.
Aim to grow the business over the long term but, Operational excellence to deliver efficiently high in recognition of the cyclicality of our markets, service standards to clients and high quality will reduce income if the risk return relationship is underwriting and management information.
Sound risk management, an ability to recognise Will actively manage the balance sheet with a changing risk and reward dynamics and to adjust focus on return on equity.
our underwriting and investment portfolios accordingly.
Financial results Charles Philipps Gross written premium In 2006 we increased gross premium by 12.1% Chief Executive to 1.1 billion.
This reflected good growth, particularly through Amlin Bermuda, in catastrophe exposed business where prices strengthened through the year up to the up 12.1% important 1 July renewal season when a large proportion of US wind exposures were renewed.
For further details see page 16.
Profit before tax The profit before tax of 342.7 million, up 83.6% over 2005, was well ahead of initial expectations and was partly the result of negligible catastrophe events in a year when prices had reacted so strongly to the extraordinary hurricane activity up 83.6% of 2004 and 2005.
Good performance was nevertheless achieved in most lines and very acceptable combined ratios recorded in areas We had an excellent year in 2006, with all such as our UK commercial division where parts of the organisation working hard to conditions have been under increasing pressure Return on equity move Amlin forward.
For further details see page 36.
We had high expectations for the year financially with strong underwriting conditions in most Return on equity, our most important internal areas and prospects for a significant hardening of 34% performance metric, was 34%, the fourth of catastrophe exposed lines.
Having raised successive year in excess of 20%, bringing our equity at the end of 2005 it was important that weighted average ROE since, and including, Amlin Bermuda had a successful start and, more 2001 to 22.7%.
We set a goal in 2001 to achieve importantly, created a sound foundation on a cross cycle average ROE of at least 15% in the which to build.
We also had to address a major belief that, by managing Amlin well we could change in catastrophe exposures when we achieve it, and that, being ahead of our decided not to renew the retrocessional theoretical cost of equity, we would create reinsurance protecting Syndicate 2001. shareholder value.
We have continued to invest in systems and Strategy process change, leading the Lloyds market in I am very pleased with the progress made across a number of projects aimed at improving our the Group towards our Vision of becoming competitiveness and attraction to brokers the global reference point for quality and our and clients.
strategy for building shareholder value.
Focus on quality and profitability of underwriting The decision to adjust our catastrophe exposures and operate with significantly less retrocessional reinsurance in 2006 was not taken lightly and followed much analysis and consideration of the options and their impact on both potential volatility of performance and bottom line profitability.
It is a tribute to our underwriting leadership that they were able to plan and achieve a change in approach to management of catastrophe exposed business.
Peak exposures were reduced and an 10 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006
