Operating and Financial Review Objectives and Strategy Extension of Product Capability The Company A core aspect of Collins Stewarts As stated at the time of the demerger, the diversification strategy is to expand the is looking Boards prime o jective is to maximise returns range of products which the Company offers to shareholders over the medium to long term across the geographies where it operates.
to establish with an accepta le level of risk.
This includes One area of focus will e equity derivatives.
oth fundamental returns generated y the Since Collins Stewarts founding in 99, operations usiness and the returns delivered through the derivatives markets have grown faster share price appreciation and dividends.
than cash equities and Collins Stewart has outside the UK, not yet taken advantage of that growth.
The The Companys usiness comprises Collins Company currently has an equity derivatives particularly in Stewart, the leading independent UK desk in New York and from this ase it stock roker and Hawkpoint, the highly intends to grow this capa ility.
the US and Asia regarded UK corporate advisory usiness.
The Collins Stewart usiness also comprises Development of Advisory the pre-eminent Channel Islands wealth Capability management usiness and has a growing presence in the US in agency roking.
The Collins Stewart has an outstanding equity Boards strategy is to develop and diversify fundraising and distri ution usiness and this strong platform.
The priorities in the Hawkpoint has one of the est names in the short to medium term will e to focus on corporate advisory usiness.
The Company international development, expanding the intends to preserve the separate identities Companys product offering and taking of these usinesses so as to safeguard advantage of the opportunities offered y their independence.
However, where the com ined efforts of the capital markets appropriate and requested y clients, the and advisory usinesses.
Company will seek to extend the services it is a le to offer.
International Development Overview of 2006 Increasingly companies from all over the world see London, and particularly AIM, as a dynamic and appropriate market for Financial Performance capital raising.
However, the UK smaller Collins Stewart was demerged from the companies funds do not have sufficient Collins Stewart Tullett group in Decem er funds under management to a sor the 2006 and its accounts have een heavily capital requirements of the worlds growth influenced y the demerger.
It is expected that a higher for the demerger is in accordance with the proportion of the funds required y overseas principles of reverse acquisition accounting companies listing in London will also e in IFRS 3: Business Com inations.
The Company is therefore accounts have therefore een prepared as looking to esta lish operations outside though the Group had een in existence the UK, particularly in the US and Asia to since January 2005.
The date of transition facilitate this.
The US usiness currently from UK GAAP to IFRS is also January employs 70 rokers and now forms one of 2005.
There are a num er of implications the largest US distri ution networks for AIM from this treatment: IPOs.
Collins Stewart has already floated one Indian company, Noida Toll Bridge, on AIM.
The income statement and the cash Since the year end the Company has taken a flow statement include the consolidated 50% stake in an Indian licensed investment results of Collins Stewart Europe Limited ank, Collins Stewart Inga, and is already from January 2005 rather than just seeing many opportunities from this venture.
those results arising post demerger.
0 Collins Stewart plc The 2005 alance sheet is that of the Key Income Statement Indicators Collins Stewart Europe Limited group.
The 2006 alance sheet includes 2006 2005 2006 2005 Collins Stewart plcs share capital, the Pro forma Pro forma Statutory Statutory distri uta le reserves of the Collins m m m m m Stewart Europe Limited group and a reverse acquisition reserve, the Revenue presentation and calculation of which is Securities 74.6 66.2 49.8 42.4 explained in Shareholders Equity elow.
Capital Markets 59.4 44.7 59.4 44.7 The statutory accounts reflect the transactions Wealth which took place as part of the demerger.
Management 50.8 37.8 50.8 37.8 In order to provide greater clarity a out 184.8 48.7 160.0 24.9 2006 performance, unaudited pro forma Operating financial information is included as an profit before appendix to these financial statements.
The exceptional main difference to the statutory reported income information is the treatment of the US Equities usiness.
This was transferred to Securities 14.1 0.2 10.6 9.8 Collins Stewart from the inter-dealing roking Capital Markets 28.3 23.9 28.3 23.9 division of Collins Stewart Tullett plc at the end of Novem er and the statutory accounts Wealth include its results since that date.
The pro Management 13.1 8.9 13.1 8.9 forma information set out elow includes 55.5 43.0 52.0 42.6 the US Equities usiness as though it had Operating profit 60.4 43.0 56.9 42.6 een held since January 2005.
All of the commentary on divisional performance set Profit out elow is ased on the pro forma results.
before tax 64.8 46.6 61.2 46.2 Earnings Although Hawkpoint was acquired on per share 22 Decem er, no results are included for that usiness in the 2006 accounts as no Basic 21.0p 6.9p 19.8p 6.7p significant profits or losses arose in the last Diluted 20.2p 6.3p 19.0p 6.0p week of the year.
Nevertheless, unaudited pro Basic efore forma financial information on the usiness exceptional is included as an appendix to these financial income 19.2p 6.9p 18.0p 6.7p statements and a commentary on the pro forma results elow.
Operating margin efore The operating divisions were esta lished y the exceptional new management team and differ slightly to income 30.0% 28.9% 32.5% 34.
% those used in previous years when reporting as a division of Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
The main difference is that the Smaller Companies roking and market making usinesses have now een included in Securities.
Capital Markets solely comprises Collins Stewarts primary distri ution and corporate finance activities.
Wealth Management is the new name adopted y the Private Clients division.
The 2005 and 2006 results take account of this operational structure.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review continued Set out elow is an overview of the key The US usiness increased revenues y an The division grew factors affecting the results of each underlying 5% after taking account of operating division in 2006.
Also included exchange differences in 2006, with much of its revenues and is a section on Hawkpoint, although the the growth coming from the international acquisition was completed at the end equities usiness.
The new derivatives operating profits of 2006 and accordingly no results for usiness also made good progress.
There Hawkpoint are included in the financial has een continued downward pressure on by 13% and 38% statements.
commissions as a result of higher volumes using trading systems.
However, the focus respectively on smaller to mid sized company stocks Securities has meant that the Company has een The Securities division comprises institutional less affected y the lower commissions stock roking in the UK, continental Europe eing paid for execution than some of its and USA as well as trading in Australian competitors.
securities, converti le and preference shares and Smaller Companies stocks.
Collins Stewarts trading activities saw strong growth in 2006, particularly in The pro forma results for the Securities The US business proprietary trading and Australian securities.
division were as follows: During the year the Company scaled ack increased its involvement in the converti les market as a result of poor trading conditions.
m 2006 2005 revenues by an Revenue 74.6 66.2 Un undling is one of the themes affecting Operating profit underlying 15% the market in which the Company operates.
efore exceptional The recruitment of a strong team of analysts income 14.1 0.2 and the differentiated research offering are the keys to Collins Stewarts drive to Operating margin 18.9% 5.4% grow and maintain its position as a leading independent UK roker.
The Companys research is perceived y clients to e The division grew its revenues and operating important to them and a num er have now profits y 3% and 38% respectively.
elected to pay for research separately, in Market conditions in 2006 were reasona ly addition to paying commission.
To date this favoura le with indices and volumes up in has affected only a small num er of client most of the markets in which Collins Stewart relationships ut experiences so far show trades.
The improvement in profita ility that the Company is well placed to adapt to was largely thanks to the reduction in the the changing environment.
US Equities transitional vendor onus arrangements and to the development of Capital Markets Collins Stewarts trading activities.
Capital Markets comprises Collins Stewarts corporate finance and corporate roking The Larger Companies team grew its revenues activities.
This includes a team specialising in y 9% in 2006.
During the year the Company Investment Funds.
hired six new experienced and highly regarded analysts to strengthen its research TM offering.
This, together with Quest, gives Collins Stewart a high quality platform and differentiated product going forward.
2 Collins Stewart plc continued The results for Capital Markets were: of 0.5m.
Some 38% of Collins Stewarts At the same time as completing the clients are overseas usinesses and acquisition of Insinger at the end of 2005, approximately 82% of the funds raised in the settlement operations for the London m 2006 2005 2006 were for overseas clients.
Wealth Management usiness were also Revenue 59.4 44.7 transferred to Guernsey.
Both the Insinger There was significant media coverage of integration and the reorganisation of the Operating profit settlement function contri uted to the 2.3% AIM in 2006, particularly concerning the efore exceptional improvement in operating margin in 2006. quality of some of the smaller companies income 28.3 23.9 Further enefits are expected in 2007. rought to that market, as well as some Operating margin 47.6% 53.5% of the quality control practices of some of the Companys competitors.
Collins London activity continues to focus on Stewart has always implemented a rigorous converting clients from commission to fee due diligence process for all new clients, ased remuneration.
We have also developed Capital Markets had a very strong year particularly those from outside the UK.
A new Charities team joined despite the AIM market eing relatively Clients also tend to e at the larger end during the year, leading to a num er of depressed in the second half.
Revenue and of AIMs offerings, and the Company significant new portfolios.
2006 also saw operating profit increased 33% and 8% routinely turns away companies which do the launch of the AIM Realisation Fund, and respectively.
Operating profit grew at a lower not meet its selection criteria.
At the end of a specific Inheritance Tax service aimed at rate than revenue ecause onus payments Fe ruary 2007, shares which were issued in providing IHT effective portfolios for investors.
in 2005 were reduced as a result of staff fundraisings organised y Collins Stewart in departures during that year.
2006 had increased y a weighted average During the year 0.5 n of low margin of 5% compared to the increase in the fund management contracts were either The division raised.
3 n of AIM market over the same period of %.
sold or su contracted to Elysium Fund new money for clients, more than dou le the This statistic emphasises the quality of the Management for proceeds of m. The nearest competitor on AIM, representing a clients for whom Collins Stewart acts.
price reflects the fact that some of the market share in terms of value of 2% 2005: iggest contracts were near the end of their %.
The team advised on 8 transactions life.
We will continue to operate as manager 2005: 72 with 25 of these transactions Wealth Management of the Collins Stewart range of funds ased eing for overseas companies funding The results for Wealth Management were: in the Channel Islands, Du lin and the UK.
ventures in India, Macau, Brazil, and the The assets in these Collins Stewart randed USA.
Nota le fundraisings were 265m on funds grew y 44%.
m 2006 2005 Playtechs IPO, the only gaming stock to e trading a ove its issue price, and 272m on Revenue 50.8 37.8 The Company increased its shareholding the IPO of Brazilian company, Infinity Bio in Collins Stewart Property Fund Operating profit Energy, which makes ethanol from sugar Management from 75% to 83.25% in efore exceptional cane.
The average size of fundraising in 2006 in accordance with the shareholder income 13.1 8.9 2006 was 35.3m 2005: 3.
In line agreement at inception.
It also acquired with the improvements in client service and Operating margin 25.8% 23.5% a 25% shareholding in Maltese roker, retention rought a out y the introduction Charts, in expectation of further growth of a corporate roking division, there was a in the Maltese market post EU entry and fairly even split etween IPO and secondary conversion to the Euro.
The Wealth Management division achieved interesting opportunity to grow Collins a record year with revenue growth of 34% Stewarts offshore usiness within a At 3 Decem er the Company had 20 against a enign market ackground.
The new jurisdiction which complements the clients, 93 of which were quoted on AIM integration of the Insinger usiness was very Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
and 27 of which were listed on the full successful, and delivered the expected cost market of the London Stock Exchange.
The savings over the com ined operation that During the year fee income grew y 28%.
largest client had a market capitalisation were forecast at the time of purchase with Total assets under management were down of 0.7 n and the smallest a capitalisation no disruption.
from 3.2 n in Decem er 2005 to 3. n Annual Report & Accounts 2006 3 Operating and Financial Review continued in Decem er 2006 with the disposal of the The usiness enefited from uoyant market Hawkpoint had fund management contracts eing mitigated conditions, particularly in the field of M&A.
y a 0.4 n increase in other assets under During the year Hawkpoint advised on a its best year of management.
Importantly, the discretionary total of 58 transactions valued at 5.5 n funds increased in value during the year y excluding the Arcelor takeover and 39.4 n trading since it was the net addition of new accounts with a including Arcelor 2005: 37 transactions value of 0.2 n. valued at 0.5 n, including 6 pu lic founded.
At 57m, take-overs and a significant num er of private equity transactions.
It was also In 2006 the division won awards for the revenue increased active in IPOs and in providing fide t and second year running from The Investors restructuring advice.
This year Collins Stewart again 49% over the had a particularly strong year, advising on won Best Advisory Stock roker for Customer transactions.
Service and Best Portfolio Manager.
previous year During 2006 Hawkpoint received several Hawkpoint industry awards, nota ly eing selected as Hawkpoints unaudited pro forma financial UK Independent Corporate Finance House information was as follows: of the Year y Acquisitions Monthly and In 2006 the pro Financial Adviser of the Year y the British Venture Capital Association.
forma return on m 2006 2005 Revenue 57.3 38.4 Return on Capital Employed capital employed Operating profit 15.0 7.7 The reverse acquisition accounting on the rose to 39% demerger of Collins Stewart means that Operating margin 26.2% 20.
% there is no longer any goodwill in the 2005: 30% consolidated alance sheet relating to the acquisition of Collins Stewart Europe Limited pursuant to the MBO in 2000.
The return on As explained a ove, Hawkpoints results are capital employed ased on the Companys not included in the Companys statutory reported shareholders equity would exceed accounts as the usiness was acquired on 00% in 2006.
To give a view of the directors 22 Decem er 2006 and the results for the stewardship of the capital entrusted to them, last week of Decem er were not material.
a pro forma calculation has therefore een However, unaudited pro forma financial made, adding ack the original goodwill on information on Hawkpoint is included as an the MBO of Collins Stewart Europe.
In 2006 appendix to these financial statements and the pro forma return on capital employed an overview of the key matters affecting rose to 39% 2005: 30% as a result of the trading in 2006 is given elow.
Hawkpoint had its est year of trading since it was founded.
At 57m, revenue increased Exceptional Operating Income 49% over the previous year.
Pro forma The exceptional operating income comprised operating profit increased y 95%.
In Octo er 2006 the Company forma operating profit has een adjusted settled its insurance claim in respect of to exclude the non-recurring impact of its involvement in split capital investment Hawkpoints London office relocation and trusts, giving rise to net proceeds of 3.9m.
share ased payments which terminated as The Wealth Management division also sold a a consequence of the acquisition.
num er of Channel Islands fund management administration contracts for m. 4 Collins Stewart plc of Hawkpoint have een adjusted in the of 5m is due, ased on the surplus cash Net Finance Income denominator in the statutory earnings per held within the usiness, after which time, The Company had interest income of 5.6m share calculation ut not the pro forma.
Hawkpoint will pay a dividend to the 2005: 4.8m and interest paya le of.
3m Company of 5m out of pre-acquisition 2005:.
Interest paya le related reserves.
The goodwill arising on the Dividends predominantly to the 2.8m su ordinated acquisition amounted to 4m.
The Board is proposing Collins Stewart plcs loans provided to Collins Stewart Europe y its former parent company, Collins Stewart first final dividend of 5p per share.
The Shareholders Equity Tullett plc.
These loans were repaid prior to dividend, if approved, is paya le on 7 June 2007 to shareholders on the register on 8 demerger and the only orrowings which the The consolidated shareholders equity May 2007.
This dividend is not paya le to Company currently has are overdrafts which incorporates Collins Stewart plcs share those shareholders who received shares as are occasionally used to fund settlements capital and distri uta le reserves, as well and the 7.3m secured loan notes issued to part of the acquisition of Hawkpoint.
as the consolidated distri uta le reserves Hawkpoint vendors.
of Collins Stewart Europe Limited and the reverse acquisition reserve created on Acquisitions demerger.
Although the Company only came Taxation The US Equities usiness and assets were into existence on demerger in Decem er transferred for no consideration to the The statutory effective rate of tax on profit 2006, the financial statements assume that Companys US su sidiary, Collins Stewart was 32%, reflecting the high effective rates the consolidated group was in existence from Inc, at the eginning of Decem er 2006 y of tax on the US usiness, offset in part y January 2005.
No goodwill arises on the the inter-dealer roking division of Collins relatively low rates of tax in the Channel demerger.
Instead, the reverse acquisition Stewart Tullett.
This was higher than the 24% rate reserve is deducted from consolidated remained responsi le for collecting fide tors in 2005, which enefited from one-off shareholders equity.
and paying creditors up until the date of attractive transitional arrangements in the the reorganisation and retained sufficient Channel Islands assessment methods.
In the Following the demerger, Collins Stewart plc cash to do so.
At the time of its acquisition, first half of 2006, the Guernsey usiness also completed a capital reduction which gave the usiness had net assets of 2.7m.
Only paid a dividend of 5m to Collins Stewart rise to a reduction in its issued share capital the results of the US Equities usiness post Europe, giving rise to tax at UK rates on and creation of additional distri uta le transfer to Collins Stewart Inc have een that income.
Adjusting for the dividend reserves of 265.4m.
included in the statutory accounts.
Goodwill paid y the Channel Islands su sidiary, the of.
m arising on the original acquisition Companys effective tax rate was 28%.
At 3 Decem er 2006, the Company had net of this usiness y Collins Stewart Tullett has assets of 239m, including 24m of net een transferred to the Company.
However, no The Companys pro forma effective tax charge funds, providing a strong ase from which to additional goodwill has een recognised on was 33%, owing to the inclusion of the US grow the usiness.
the transfer of the usiness to Collins Stewart.
Equities usiness for the whole of 2006, which is taxed at the higher US tax rates.
Cash Flow Collins Stewart Inc, which at the time of the transfer of the US Equities usiness The Company produced a statutory Earnings per Share mentioned a ove was owned y the interoperating cash flow of 67.4m from Pro forma earnings per share rose 4% dealer roking division of Collins Stewart statutory operating profit of 56.9m.
Tullett, was acquired y the Company trading positions decreased y 4.3m shortly prior to demerger.
Because this was owing to the reduction in the scale of the The share capital used to calculate the a transfer of a group company, it fell within converti les usiness and disposal of a earnings per share was that of Collins the rules relating to group reorganisations num er of trading positions taken during Stewart plc following the demerger.
This and accordingly this transfer was deemed to 2006.
Bonus provisions paya le in March share capital has een deemed to have have taken place in January 2005.
2007 in respect of 2006 were 3.7m een in existence from January 2005 higher than those in 2005 as a result of the and adjusted to exclude shares held y The acquisition of Hawkpoint was etter trading performance in 2006.
Tax the Companys employee share ownership completed on 22 Decem er 2006.
The initial payments in 2006 included 8.4m paid to trusts which have not een allocated consideration comprised 80m new ordinary Collins Stewart Tullett in respect of unconditionally to employees.
The shares shares and 40m in cash and loan notes.
issued in connection with the acquisition the end of March 2007 a further payment Annual Report & Accounts 2006 5 Operating and Financial Review continued Cash spent on acquisitions amounted to in foreign exchange rates.
Policies and Regulatory Capital 37.5m with a further 7.3m loan notes procedures exist to reduce the likelihood of The various su sidiary companies maintained issued to Hawkpoint vendors.
Cash acquired such trade mismatches and, in the event regulatory capital in excess of their with Hawkpoint and the US Equities usiness that they arise, the Groups policy is to close requirements throughout the year.
Pursuant amounted to 37. m, of which 5m is due out such alances immediately, or to carry to the demerger, Collins Stewart is once to e paid as deferred consideration in March them with an appropriate hedge in place.
again su ject to the FSAs consolidated 2007 and 23.5m comprises onus related All market risks arising across the Group are capital adequacy tests.
Following the payments in respect of 2006 performance.
identified and monitored on a daily asis.
implementation of the Capital Requirements Prior to demerger Collins Stewart repaid Directive, the Board is expecting the Collins su ordinated loans of 2.8m provided Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting Stewart group to have to maintain slightly y Collins Stewart Tullett ut at the same from inadequate or failed internal processes, higher levels than have historically een time received a capital injection from people, systems or external events.
The Company already carries capital Collins Stewart Tullett of 20.0m to provide overall o jective of the Groups operational to cover these increased requirements.
risk management approach is not to attempt to avoid all potential risks, ut proactively to Key Risks Affecting identify and assess risks and risk situations Financing and Treasury in order to manage them in an efficient and the Business At 3 Decem er 2006 the Company had informed manner, always recognising the net cash and cash equivalents of 30.9m cost relative to the enefits.
This approach The key risks which the Group faces in 2005: 6. m including client settlement ena les the Group to exploit existing its day to day operations can roadly e alances of 5.2m 2005: 0.5m and 7.3m opportunities, increase usiness success, and categorised as credit, market, operational and held as security for the loan notes issued to protect and enhance shareholder value.
The governance structure the Hawkpoint vendors.
Of the overall cash for risk management is descri ed in the alances some 3.5m, representing margin Corporate Governance Report.
Reputational risk is the risk that the deposits with various clearing agencies and Groups a ility to do usiness will e 7.3m cash secured in respect of the loan damaged as a result of its reputation Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to notes, is not availa le for general use.
Also the Group in the event that a client or eing tarnished.
Clients rely on the Groups included in cash was 2.3m 2005: nil held counterparty fails to settle its contractual integrity and pro ity.
The Group has policies y the Companys Employee Share Ownership and procedures in place to manage this risk o ligations to the Group.
As the Groups Trusts, which can only e used for the enefit to the extent possi le which include, inter usiness is contracted on an agency or of staff.
The Employee Share Ownership alia, procedures for employee hiring and the intermediary asis, the main credit risk is Trusts were transferred to the Company actually more akin to a market risk, as the taking on of new usiness, and conduct of on demerger and on the acquisition of exposure in such cases is to movements usiness rules.
in stock prices and foreign currency.
All counterparties are su ject to regular review Future Developments The Company maintains significant and assessment.
cash alances to provide liquidity for its and Outlook settlement operations and has a num er Market risk is the vulnera ility of the Group of facilities in place to provide for any One of the key focuses for 2007 will e the to movements in the value of financial additional ad hoc requirements.
Market risk can arise in those development of revenue synergies etween Company does not have any off alance Hawkpoint and Collins Stewart.
Both these instances where one or oth counterparties sheet financing.
usinesses will continue to operate as standin a matched principal transaction fail alone operations, and their independence will to fulfill their o ligations i. e. an initially Collins Stewart does not currently hedge the e safeguarded.
However, where appropriate unsettled transaction or through trade earnings or net assets of its US su sidiary as mismatches or other errors.
The risk in these the Company is already offering joint proposals to existing and prospective clients the amounts involved are not yet sufficiently situations is restricted to short-term price significant to justify hedging.
This policy will as well as offering additional services to movements in the underlying stock held or e reviewed as the US usiness grows.
Both usinesses are strong to e delivered y the Group and movements 6 Collins Stewart plc and highly regarded in their respective Capital Markets had a very markets and it is therefore expected that some clients will wish to capitalise on these strong year despite the AIM strengths.
market being relatively depressed Since the year end Collins Stewart has completed its investment into the Indian in the second half.
Revenue and investment ank, Inga, which has now een renamed Collins Stewart Inga.
The company operating profit increased 33% was founded in 992 and is a SEBI registered category one merchant ank which offers and 18% respectively various financial services, including nonfund ased investment anking, M&A advisory services, corporate advisory and merchant anking.
We have known our new partner for some time through our Tullett Pre on connections, and now look forward to developing this new Collins The division raised 1.9bn Stewart co-operation.
It is expected that this joint venture will ena le the Company to 2005: 1.3bn of new money identify investment opportunities for Collins Stewart clients as well as introducing new for clients, more than double fundraising opportunities to the London usiness.
the nearest competitor on AIM, We have a strong transactions pipeline for representing a market share oth Collins Stewart and Hawkpoint and are optimistic a out the prospects for 2007. in terms of value of 12% Joel Plasco 2005: 11%.
Chief Executive 27 March 2007 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7
