Performance Review Overall retail sales performance demonstrates global strength of The Body Shop brand In this review, all comparisons between the Operating Performance Geographical Analysis 2006 and 2005 financial years relate to the Group turnover increased by 16% to 52 week period to 25 February 2006 and 485.8 million 2005: 419.0 million, Americas the 52 week period to 26 February 2005. with 69% 2005: 69% representing retail 2006 2005 sales through company-owned stores, The Body Shop At Home in companyDefinitions: Stores at year end 444 429 owned markets and the internet.
Store openings net 15 13 Total retail sales Sales to consumers through The balance of group turnover all stores, The Body Shop At Home and the Company-owned principally represents wholesale internet.
Retail sales figures are stated at stores 373 351 sales to franchisees.
comparable exchange rates, with prior year figures being restated where appropriate.
Gross profit increased by 17% to m m Change 318.5 million 2005: 272.7 million, Comparable store sales Sales by all stores Store sales 152.4 147.9 3% with gross margins increasing to 65.6% which have been trading for more than one year, The Body Shop excluding sales through pharmacy concessions.
After deducting the direct At Home 23.4 21.5 9% costs associated with operating companyTurnover Group revenue derived from a owned stores, The Body Shop At Home combination of retail sales excluding sales taxes Total retail sales 175.9 169.4 4% through company-owned stores, The Body Shop in company-owned markets and sales Turnover 161.0 142.3 13% At Home in company-owned markets and the via the internet, the profit contribution internet, together with wholesale revenue and Operating profit 17.4 21.9 -20% rose 12% to 155.9 million 2005: royalties from franchisees.
Other operating expenses were Total retail sales growth of 4% Retail Sales 114.4 million 2005: 100.5 million.
was enhanced by positive growth in In the 52 weeks ended 25 February Operating expenses for the year include The Body Shop At Home and e-commerce.
2006, total retail sales across all channels in excess of 4.0 million in non-recurring Comparable store sales of -1% reflect a increased by 7% to 772.0 million costs, primarily comprising: reorganisation decline of 2% in the USA, together with an 2005: 724.0 million, with comparable and redundancies: costs relating to the improvement to 1% in Canada from -3% store sales up 4%.
Retail sales through recently acquired franchise businesses in the previous year.
The four stores in The Body Shop At Home increased by in Canada and Benelux: and exceptional Mexico performed strongly.
inventory write-offs principally relating Retail sales in the USA underperformed Sales performance by region is shown in to the US supply chain issues.
Operating expectations during the Christmas trading the table at the bottom of this page.
margins were 8.5% compared with period.
This was driven in part by lower After 88 net store openings during the 9.4% in the previous year, with operating traffic levels in the shopping malls, year, the number of stores worldwide totalled profit increasing to 41.5 million 2005: compounded by execution issues in the 2,133 2005: 2,045 at the year end, of 39.2 million.
inventory supply chain that lead to some which 815 2005: 733 were companyProfit before tax increased by 5% out-of-stock positions.
In order to resolve owned and the remainder franchised.
these issues, a special task force was put in place last autumn and good progress has now been made in rectifying the situation.
Sales Performance The e-commerce site in the USA 52 weeks to 25 February 2006 www.
com has outperformed Store The Body Total Comparable expectations since its launch in September Sales Shop At Retail Store 2004, more than doubling sales and making Home Sales Sales a contribution to profit in its first full year Americas 3% 9% 4% -1% of operation.
The movement in operating profit Asia Pacific 10% 24% 11% 6% reflects the additional costs incurred as a Europe, Middle East & Africa 7% 7% 7% result of the supply chain execution issues UK & Republic of Ireland 2% 15% 3% 2% experienced in the second half of last year, including provision of resources from the Total 6% 14% 7% 4% global centre and additional costs relating to air freight and expediting goods to stores.
17 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Performance Review continued Interest and Exchange Rates Both total retail sales and comparable Asia Pacific store sales grew by 7%.
Highlights included The net interest charge of 3.9 million relates to average net debt of 26.3 million continuing strong growth in the Middle East 2006 2005 11% and the Nordic region 12%.
The Stores at year end 605 554 balance sheet showed net debt of 12.7 Western and Southern Europe, good positive Store openings net 51 30 growth was achieved in France 11%, million at the period end, compared with Company-owned net debt of 19.8 million at the end of the Spain 6%, Holland 6% and Germany stores 68 60 3%, whilst the trend continued to improve previous year.
The currencies to which the Group is in Italy -2%.
The store base in Eastern m m Change Europe, although small, is performing well.
principally exposed are the US dollar and Store sales 201.3 182.3 10% the Euro.
In addition, there is exposure to Stores were opened in two new franchised The Body Shop markets during the year, Jordan and Russia.
the currencies of Singapore, Hong Kong At Home 10.4 8.4 24% and Canada.
In Russia, there were six stores in place by the year end, with another 11 openings The results of overseas subsidiaries Total retail sales 211.7 190.7 11% have been translated at an average sterling planned for the current year.
The increase in regional turnover and dollar rate of $1.80 2005: $1.84 and an Turnover 86.1 64.4 34% average sterling euro rate of 1.47 2005: Operating profit 27.2 20.1 35% operating profit has been achieved as a result of positive underlying sales trends, 1.47.
The movement in exchange rates year on year has had a minimal impact on strong growth in wholesale sales and the The Asia Pacific region continued to achieve acquisition of the Benelux head franchise profit before tax.
strong sales growth, with total retail sales up businesses in March 2005.
Taxation, Earnings per Share 11% and comparable store sales up 6%.
and Dividends The benefits of strong brand positioning and UK & Republic of Ireland The tax charge for the year is 8.4 million, in-store execution were helped by generally giving an effective rate of 22.3% 2005: improving economies in the region.
The effective tax rate reflects achieving particularly strong comparable continued benefit from the utilisation and Stores at year end 305 304 store sales growth included Malaysia recognition of brought forward operating Store openings net 1 -9 17%, Indonesia 17%, Taiwan 11%, losses and temporary differences in the US Company-owned Singapore 9%, Japan 7% and Hong business.
In line with IAS 12, these losses stores 242 228 Kong 6%.
Korea showed an improvement and temporary differences are recognised to 2% from -8% in the previous year.
m m Change as a deferred tax asset in the period under In Australia, comparable store sales were review, which has the effect of reducing the Store sales 146.4 143.6 2% flat but strong growth continued to be effective tax rate.
The Body Shop achieved in The Body Shop At Home 24%.
Earnings per share were 13.6 pence At Home 19.6 17.0 15% The growth in regional turnover and 2005: 13.8 pence on a weighted average operating profit reflects the continuing Total retail sales 166.0 160.6 3% number of shares of 210.5 million 2005: positive trend in retail sales, together with 206.6 million, which excludes the shares particularly strong growth in wholesale sales Turnover 144.5 137.9 5% held by The Body Shop International and favourable product mix.
Operating profit 13.2 13.3 -1% Employee Share Trust.
As previously announced, the Board These store numbers exclude 138 Europe, Middle East & Africa 2005: 101 concessions in pharmacies.
has resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 4.4 pence per share in lieu 2006 2005 Total retail sales grew by 3%, with comparable of a final dividend 2005: final dividend of Stores at year end 779 758 store sales up by 2%.
The comparable store 3.8 pence per share.
This second interim Store openings net 21 4 sales performance reflects growth of 3% in dividend will be paid on 3 July 2006 to Company-owned the UK, with a decline of 1% in the Republic shareholders who were on the register at stores 132 94 of Ireland.
The growth in the UK was 24 March 2006.
Together with the first achieved despite a challenging trading interim dividend of 2.2 pence, the total for m m Change environment during the Christmas period.
the year is 6.6 pence 2005: 5.7 pence The Body Shop At Home progressed per share.
Store sales 218.4 203.3 7% well, with growth of 15% during the year.
The Body Shop Cash Flow Opportunities for cross-channel marketing At Home The Group generated net cash inflow from between the stores and The Body Shop operating activities of 71.2 million 2005: Total retail sales 218.4 203.3 7% At Home continue to be developed.
Movement in working capital The movement in regional turnover Turnover 94.2 74.4 27% was helped by a 7.3 million reduction in reflects the growth in retail sales, with Operating profit 19.1 16.0 19% inventory to 54.8 million 2005: 62.1 operating profit broadly level year on year.
million, reflecting efficiencies gained 18 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 through the investment in supply chain posted to shareholders on 12 April 2006, Charitable donations continue to be management systems.
the Directors confirmed that this revised channelled principally through The Body Shop Capital expenditure excluding estimate remained valid.
Foundation, except for situations where the acquisitions amounted to 32.0 million As reported, operating profit for the Group has responded to an immediate need 2005: 20.9 million, with approximately 2006 financial year was 41.5 million, caused by a major natural disaster.
two thirds invested in new stores and store up 6% on the previous year.
After a higher Employees refurbishments and the majority of the effective tax rate of 22.3% 2005: 19.3%, The Body Shop is dedicated to engaging balance in information systems.
earnings per share were down 1% at 13.6 and inspiring customers to buy naturally Acquisition expenditure of 4.4 million pence.
The reasons for the variances inspired personal care products.
To do includes the purchase of the Benelux head between the actual outcome and the this, the Group focuses on attracting franchise businesses in March 2005. forecasts contained in the 2005 Annual and retaining employees with great skills, Report and Accounts and the 2005 Interim Profit Forecasts knowledge and creative talent.
In return, Report are provided in the above extract In the 2005 Annual Report and Accounts, The Body Shop offers a unique opportunity from the Christmas Trading Update.
the following profit forecast was made in for employees to be part of a globally relation to the 2006 financial year: Delivering Value to Stakeholders recognised brand and to play an active Against this background, we are The Body Shop International has an role in promoting social and environmental planning for a 15-20% growth in operating established reputation as a socially and change through the Groups campaigning, profit in the current financial year, with a environmentally responsible company.
volunteering and community-giving somewhat slower growth in earnings due The Directors believe that the Groups values programmes.
to an increase in the effective tax rate.
are consistent with strong and sustained The Body Shop has a long-established In the 2005 Interim Report, the financial performance and that profits with policy of promoting diversity throughout the following statement was made: principles must be achieved in order to global business.
Internal and external We expect a 17-22% growth in sustain the long-term future of the Group.
recruitment processes are monitored to operating profit for the full year, with a The Body Shop is committed to ensure there is no unintended bias.
Human somewhat slower growth in earnings due maintaining high standards of social and resource policies reflect The Body Shops to the higher effective tax rate.
environmental performance and to doing commitment to a fair and equal organisation These forecasts were revised in the business with integrity and transparency.
where everyone is encouraged to succeed Christmas Trading Update as follows: This means using the Groups ethical regardless of sex, race, sexual orientation, Whilst many markets achieved the principles to inform the way business is age or disability.
forecasted level of sales growth during done, setting clear standards of practice for One of the key performance targets the Christmas period, overall retail sales The Body Shop and its business partners.
is to strengthen learning and development were lower than expected as the US and UK It also involves engaging stakeholders with programmes for employees who directly markets did not achieve the targeted rate of the Groups business aims and publicly serve customers.
This supports one of the growth in this period of high profit leverage.
reporting on performance within the overall Groups key business objectives to embed Gross margins are above the level context of the business strategy.
A new development achieved last year.
However, the full year The strategic direction of the Groups programme, Inspire the Customer, has operating profit will reflect over 4 million values is reviewed annually by the Board in been designed for store employees and of non-recurring items comprising consultation with the Director of Global The Body Shop At Home consultants.
reorganisation and other costs that have Values.
The Director of Global Values is In the current year, it is a priority for the been incurred to improve performance and a member of the Executive Committee, business to upgrade the talent, development reduce future operating costs.
reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, with and succession-planning framework within As a result of the somewhat lower than overall responsibility for directing the social The Body Shop in order to encourage global expected Christmas sales and non-recurring and environmental programme.
Strategic careers and employee retention.
costs, we have revised our previous values objectives are aligned with the The Body Shop aims to ensure expectations for the full year outcome.
business objectives as well as stakeholder that employees pay and benefits are We now expect operating profit to be level perceptions and expectations.
These competitive in the marketplace.
A flexible with, or marginally ahead of, last year.
objectives are fully embraced by the senior benefits programme is offered, in which Our effective tax rate in the last management team, who have collective employees can opt to trade certain benefits, financial year was 19%.
Previously, we responsibility for balancing the interests of such as additional holidays.
The majority were forecasting an effective rate of 24% all key stakeholder groups.
Sub-committees of employees are eligible for one of the for the current year.
However, due to help direct the social and environmental Groups bonus schemes.
changes in geographical profit mix, we now approach of the business.
These include an Communication and Dialogue anticipate a tax rate slightly lower than our Issues Management Group, which reports The Body Shop prides itself in ensuring previous estimate with earnings per share into the Board Risk Committee: a Corporate all employees are aware of the Groups marginally down on last year.
Health and Safety Strategy Group: an financial and retail performance.
A mix of In the document relating to the Environmental Steering Group: and an communication methods is used to engage Recommended Cash Offer by LOral, Animal Protection Steering Group.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 Performance Review continued and inform employees, including face-toin a Day of Action in Washington DC.
Store 60,000 mobile phones, which have been face communication sessions, an intranet staff spent the day on Capitol Hill, speaking transformed into personal safety alarms and written publications such as Body Talk.
to representatives from both houses about for vulnerable women or recycled to raise The Body Shop formally consults the campaign and urging them to take funds for the pioneering Fonesforsafety employees in the UK and Europe via action to Stop Violence in the Home.
initiative, founded by The Body Shop.
Consultation and Representation Committees, In Canada, the campaign raised funds to The Fonesforsafety scheme has proved comprising employee-elected representatives.
support the long-standing partnership with so effective that it has been adopted by the the Canadian Womens Foundation.
The UK government as part of their toolkit to Our Values Making a Difference funds raised helped to fund the continued provide support to women throughout the The Body Shop continues to actively development of shelternet, the online UK.
The Body Shop has continued to lead promote the Groups values and to improve resource for women all over Canada.
the Corporate Alliance To End Domestic social and environmental performance.
This In Asia Pacific, the campaign ran in Violence, working to support other includes strengthening in-store customer every market.
In Singapore, the campaign businesses to create responsible communications, which tell customers the was launched with six city buses carrying approaches to employees affected by stories behind the values with a particular the Stop Violence in the Home branding.
focus on the Community Trade programme.
In Indonesia, where The Body Shop was Global campaigns continue to raise HIV AIDS instrumental in getting domestic violence awareness and funds to support social The Body Shop continued to raise funds recognised as a crime in law in 2004, the issues that are important to customers.
and awareness for HIV AIDS during the focus was on communicating the rights of Through Stop Violence in the Home and year.
In the Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle women under the new law.
The Body Shop campaigns on HIV AIDS, The Body Shop East, and Africa regions, The Body Shop in New Zealand, supported by over 200,000 is making a positive difference.
supported World Aids Day 2005 through signatures collected in store, called on the The Group has significantly the sale of special red wrist bands which government to provide additional funding strengthened its stakeholder engagement raised funds for national programmes.
to complement the NZ$113,416 raised by during the past year in areas such as In Asia Pacific, The Body Shop partnered The Body Shop for women affected by violence against children, chemicals with MTV in seven countries, selling a domestic violence.
In Japan, Dame Anita in products, fair trade, ethical trade, special edition Pocket Pal coin purse to Roddick launched the campaign as part sustainable ingredients and Against Animal raise funds for local HIV and Aids charities.
of the 15th anniversary celebrations of Testing.
An independently verified Values The Body Shop in Japan.
In Australia, the The Environment: Targeting Carbon Neutral Report has been published, which includes campaign focussed on raising awareness During the past year, The Body Shop has insights and challenges from various of the prevalence of family violence, with actively addressed its contribution to climate stakeholders such as NGOs, employees over 350,000 copies of the campaign booklet change.
In addition to an ongoing and a UN agency.
The Values Report Expect Respect being distributed to 13-18 commitment to use renewable energy contains clear targets for improvements year olds.
wherever possible, the Group has recently in the areas identified as strategic priorities.
Throughout Europe, the special edition introduced a new company car policy All of our ethical policies and principles lip care stick became a best seller and requiring all new cars in the fleet to be are also being reviewed to ensure that they customers donated thousands of products hybrid models, thereby saving fuel costs continue to guide business practice and and gifts which The Body Shop staff and reducing emissions.
All business flights support The Body Shops ambition to be distributed to local womens shelters.
In made by The Body Shop employees in the leading ethical retailer of cosmetics France, The Body Shop partnered with a film 2005 6 were made on a carbon neutral and toiletries.
about domestic violence called Ne Dis Rien, basis, through offsetting investments in Stop Violence in the Home with the campaign featuring in cinema renewable energy programmes in Bulgaria.
The Stop Violence in the Home campaign trailers across the country and leaflets In addition, newly launched electrical has now been launched in 40 countries distributed in cinema lobbies.
In Turkey, the products will come with built-in carbon and raised over 500,000 in the past year.
campaign was launched just one year after offset to ensure that the use of these Boosted by the launch of a special edition lip The Body Shop started trading in the market.
products will not contribute to climate care stick to raise funds for the campaign, Stop Violence in the Home was also change.
The Body Shop has recently made thousands of customers supported the call launched for the first time in Latvia and South a commitment to neutralise its climate to Stop Violence in the Home.
In the Middle East, the campaign was change impact by ensuring that its retail In the Americas, customers donated launched in Saudi Arabia, with the campaign operations are completely carbon neutral over 100,000 old mobile phones to raise lip care stick being sold in stores.
The next few years will therefore funds for the National Coalition Against United Arab Emirates, The Body Shop worked see a concerted effort to reduce energy use Domestic Violence NCADV.
The Body Shop with a local NGO, City of Hope, to raise from transport, stores and offices.
In the continued to work in partnership with awareness of the campaign.
The NGO light of this, the target to reduce electricity Lifetime TV, who promoted the campaign featured with Dame Anita Roddick in a BBC use in offices has been postponed until a through their television network.
stronger measurement and monitoring Lifetime TV, The Body Shop participated In the UK, customers donated over system can be established.
20 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Suppliers and Supply Chain The Company has a policy with its principal that its ethical trade policies are in line with Management suppliers to settle the terms of payment best practice.
The Group is an active The Body Shop is focused on meeting when agreeing the terms of each member of both the Ethical Trade Initiative customer expectations for high quality transaction.
ETI and SEDEX Supplier Ethical Data products that deliver value to consumers.
Exchange, through which it strives to Community Trade Suppliers to The Body Shop are vital to the influence national and international policy The Body Shops fair trade programme, success of the business and the Group is on ethical trade issues.
called Community Trade, seeks to make committed to building strong relationships Last year, the Group reinforced its a positive economic and social difference with its key suppliers.
During the last commitment to ethical trade by requesting within individual communities, in return for financial year, The Body Shop continued all suppliers to adopt the ETI Base Code, natural ingredients and handcrafted to progress a number of initiatives with which has been developed in partnership accessories.
In excess of 15,000 farmers suppliers to enhance performance and with non-government organisations, trade or workers earn a fair income as a result ensure ethical compliance in the supply unions and other retailers.
Through of the Community Trade programme.
These included continued focus on membership of SEDEX, The Body Shop half of the products sold originate from a improving the performance of key suppliers ensures that its ethical assessments of Community Trade supplier, either through and prioritising key products which has suppliers are of the highest quality.
the inclusion of a Community Trade resulted in: The monitoring of the ethical ingredient or as a Community Trade gift Improved on-time and in-full delivery of performance of suppliers has been or accessory.
established products strengthened in the past year, with 100% During the last year, a new Community Reduced quality rejects of all active suppliers completing a selfTrade ingredient supplier has been Improved on-time and in-full delivery of assessment and 70% of suppliers having established for the purchase of Aloe Vera.
The Guastatoya Farmers are located in At The Body Shop, all buyers are a marginalised part of Guatemala, where responsible for sourcing ethically and Supply Chain Performance Data Aloe is making a real difference to the training has been provided to enable them community.
The price paid for the Aloe 2006 2005 to assess supplier compliance with ETI includes a premium that goes into a social labour standards.
Average trade fund, which is being used to improve the creditor days 29 28 teaching aids used in local schools.
Working with Stakeholders for Direct cost of research In gifts and accessories, all of the Sustainable Ingredients and development 5.1m 4.6m current years summer beach bag range and Sourcing wood products: Value of inventory at many of the core hair accessories are being The Body Shop aims to support suppliers year end 54.8m 62.1m sourced from Community Trade suppliers in working toward Forest Stewardship Council Community Trade: countries such as India, Nepal, Bangladesh FSC certification.
During the last financial Total purchases of raw and Mauritius.
This is a challenging category year, the volume of wood products sourced materials & accessories 5.1m 5.2m for Community Trade due to the speed of from FSC certified sources increased from Total number of products change in fashion trends, but further with Community Trade 49% to 65%.
1 1 content 765 550 Community Trade suppliers are regularly Promoting sustainable palm oil: Number of supplier groups 30 28 assessed to ensure that conditions and Palm oil is one of the most common Number of countries 23 22 2 benefits are in accordance with the Groups ingredients in cosmetics and toiletries.
Proportion of wood products 3 fair trade guidelines.
During the past year, Millions of people in developing countries purchased from FSC over one third of the Community Trade supply depend on this crop.
However, palm oil certified sources 65% 49% base has been assessed.
In addition, cultivation is a major contributor to the loss On-site ethical assessments producer support workshops focussing on of rainforests, and human rights conditions of suppliers 83 88 product development, international logistics are often poor.
As part of its commitment and production technology have been to promoting the use of sustainable 1 The 2006 number relates to the total number of products with Community Trade content, which can now be reported extended to individual suppliers.
ingredients, The Body Shop has actively following the implementation of SAP.
This figure is a more contributed to a global multi-stakeholder accurate indicator of the use of Community Trade across the Ethical Trade initiative The Roundtable on Sustainable product categories as it includes Community Trade gifts and The Body Shop Ethical Trade Programme accessories, as well as ingredients.
The comparative number Palm Oil, which is working to improve aims to ensure that all retail and visual for 2005 relates purely to the number of products that contain conditions in plantations.
The Body Shop Community Trade ingredients.
merchandise products are purchased from has also actively promoted the use of suppliers which meet recognised 2 This applies to accessory items purchased through central certified sustainable palm oil, including sourcing teams.
raising awareness of the issue among The Body Shop continues to work in 3 Forest Stewardship Council.
major European retailers in partnership partnership with a range of stakeholders at with WWF and Friends of the Earth.
an international and national level to ensure The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Performance Review continued Recognitions on Leadership Responding to concerns over chemicals: Treatment of Animals first annual European The Body Shop is committed to applying Against Animal Testing Proggy Awards.
Proggy Awards recognise The Body Shop is constantly working to the precautionary principle in the animal-friendly achievements in commerce development of its products.
Over the improve its monitoring systems to ensure and culture.
that no products or ingredients have been past year, stakeholders have raised During the current year, The Body Shop concerns over the use of certain chemicals.
The Group continues will relaunch its Against Animal Testing to adhere to the BUAV-endorsed Humane In response, The Body Shop has reviewed Policy, whilst also expanding it to include the scientific evidence and engaged with Cosmetics Standard, which remains the a policy on animal-derived ingredients.
NGOs to determine an appropriate course The Group has now committed to using of action.
Last year the Group committed In 2005, The Body Shop received the only ingredients and raw materials that new Alternative Award from the RSPCA in to phasing out two chemicals from its are suitable for vegetarians.
formulations, phthalates and polycyclic recognition of its robust systems and clear The table bottom left shows how leadership in this issue.
The Body Shop also musks, by the end of 2006 and 2010 The Body Shop is performing against respectively.
won the Best Cruelty-Free Cosmetics its own values-related targets.
category in PETAs People for the Ethical Community Engagement The Body Shop seeks to make a positive Values-Related Targets impact on the local communities in which it operates.
In both company-owned and Target date Target Status Comments franchised markets throughout the world, 1 2006 Reduce employee turnover by 12% in the UK Partly Turnover reduced staff are actively engaged in supporting many and by 10% in the USA completed by 14% in the UK different community-based programmes.
and increased by 7% in the USA Community Involvement Data 2006 30 markets to run Stop Violence in the Home Completed 40 markets 2006 2005 campaign running campaigns Participation of UK head 2006 Raise awareness of Stop Violence in the Home N A Data not yet office employees in campaign to 325 million opportunities to see available volunteering 38% 23% 2006 500,000 to be donated to domestic violence Completed 600,000 Group charitable donations 1.0m 1.3m charities was donated 2006 Ensure a 5% reduction in total CO emissions Postponed 2 The amounts shown include donations of 0.7 million from electricity use in stores and offices in 2006 2005: 0.7 million to The Body Shop Foundation, an independent registered charity of which some of the 2006 Offset all CO emissions from business travel Completed 9,303,543 Directors are trustees.
2 miles offset At the UK global head office, employees 2006 100% of first tier product suppliers to be Completed 100% reviewed were entitled to six days of volunteer time in ethically approved and reviewed and approved the last financial year, with 38% supporting 2006 100% of relevant members of Sourcing team Completed All relevant local projects and causes as individuals to be trained in ethical audits members trained and as business teams 2005: 23%.
2006 Report annually on progress in providing Completed Reporting available For example, the global product team sustainable palm oil on www.
org undertook a day of conservation work to support a conservation group based near 2006 Eliminate phthalates from all product On track Number of the head office in West Sussex, whilst the formulations products containing global marketing team spent a day creating phthalates reduced a play area for children at an inner city farm from 27 to 2 close to the London head office.
2008 90% of company fleet to be hybrid models On track Policy introduced The Body Shop stores continue to play an active role in the local community.
2010 Achieve 100% wood products and shop fits On track 65% in 2006, up 2 The Body Shop in Harlem, New York, from FSC-certified sources from 49% in 2005 contributes 5% of annual retail sales to local 2010 Eliminate polycyclic musks from all On track Number of community programmes such as Project product formulations products containing Enterprise, a peer lending programme that polycyclic musks helps micro entrepreneurs in low income reduced from 28 communities to become self sufficient and to 19 to increase their quality of life.
1 Employee turnover relates to full and part time store employees and managers.
2 Percentages relate to wood products but not shop fits, as data is not yet available.
22 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
